ParlaMint-DK_20180112100016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112100029	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112100055	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 16 January. January 2018. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Christian Langballe, Dansk Folkeparti, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112100129	First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for coming and taking part in this important debate, the debate on values, and thank you to the rapporteurs and who else might be here today. For me, the word value or debate on values is a relatively pale word that we use in the absence of better, because in reality the word value concerns the fundamental principles that concern people and people's rule, i.e. the general political state of Denmark, the values, spiritual values, cultural and historical values on which the country is based. When we normally discuss the Finance Act, we spend a whole day on it, but rather it is the cultural and historical and value-based foundation that we normally discuss from, at least as crucial as money and economy. I look forward to today's debate and look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112100253	Thank you. And then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112100302	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again taking the initiative for a debate on value policy in this Chamber. We had one at the same time last year; it has almost become a tradition. And this is a good tradition, because the question of Danish values is very much too many, including for the government. Freedom, rule of the people, equality, liberalism, equality • the list of Danish values is long, and fortunately we agree on most of them. On my list of Danish values is also the word community. We live at a time when many experience that the Danish community is being influenced by many sides, it comes under pressure. Within a few generations, Denmark has melted closer and closer together with the rest of the world. When I was a child, abroad was synonymous with the map that was pulled from the ceiling of the classroom when we had geography. The first major foreign travels for me went to Lillehammer and Schleswig, and I think I was confirmed before I got farther than that. My own kids grew up with the Internet on the computer, with cable TV, with cell phones. Their world picture is quite different dynamic and great. And today most maps around the classrooms are also tampered with and replaced by smartboards, YouTube, Facebook, iPads, everything that makes young people world citizens from the start. Basically, we should not be sorry about this, for the present is far better than the past on almost all parameters: globalisation, free trade • Denmark in active interaction with the rest of the world has made Denmark a much richer, a much stronger, a much better country to live in. Indeed, most Danes view the future positively, and I share optimism. Because we have won on the fact that the world has become smaller; we have won on globalisation because we have seized on the new opportunities, we have taken on the development, we have made ourselves attractive to the outside world. At the same time, we have stuck to a strong Danish community, a welfare society, where we help those who need it, invest in common welfare, choose each other and Denmark for. And that's how it's gonna go on. But we do have the challenge that our attraction is not only in relation to foreign companies and foreign investments and in relation to a foreign country that demands Danish competences. We have also become attractive to people fleeing from war and persecution and, to a large extent, to people who are not refugees in the real sense of the word. You can understand that. After all, the history of each refugee grabs our hearts, and I think that if we were in the same situation, many of us would also choose to seek a country like Denmark. Lots of young people in Europe's immediate areas who live a life that does not match ours, but where modern technology has enabled us to gain insight into ours, are also looking for countries such as Denmark and you understand it well. Our starting point is to help those who need help, which is why over the years we have opened our door to thousands of people on the run. We have also done so because we thought that everyone who came here could and would be a part of our community live in our way according to our values. It's not that simple, unfortunately we know that now. As a country, we have accepted too many foreigners from a cultural and value point of view which is far from our own, which it has proved difficult to integrate. It can't go on like that. It is not a new realization for me, but it is clearer and clearer and is a view shared by more and more people. Development must be reversed; there are limits to the inclusiveness of the community. It is not just an economic issue; it is also a question of values and the community that comes under pressure. But that is more than that, because if we do not manage these things, it is also likely to fuel a desire among the people that Denmark should generally pull the plug to the rest of the world, that the safest thing is to turn its back on everything, to close ourselves, to turn its back on the international interaction that has made us rich and safe. Denmark must not go that way, and that is my starting point in the immigration and integration policy. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I would like to say that the number matters. And background matters. A foreigner is not just a foreigner. That is why we need a strict, targeted immigration policy in which we close to those we find it difficult to integrate without hitting those we urgently need: the talents and others who contribute to the community and live by values that are close to ours. And that is why, since the elections, the government has been pursuing a strict foreign policy. We have tightened up and, together with stronger action in the European Union, this has meant that today we have the lowest number of asylum seekers for nine years. This is positive, and the government wants to continue along the same lines. When the tide against Europe was at its peak, in late summer 2015, we welcomed many war refugees, especially from Syria; children and adults, who had an urgent need for protection and who sought for Denmark to get it covered there. We've given them shelter, but it's a temporary shelter. War refugees have to return home when conditions allow, and that is why we must ensure that they are ready to go home when the day comes. If we equip the Syrian refugees for that task by allowing them to work and train themselves while they are in Denmark, but with the clear goal of achieving the clear stated goal of returning home when conditions allow, we will in my view give them the best help they can get. And while they're here, we must of course make sure that they support themselves, because if they don't, there's only the rest of us to do it. So when they're here, of course they have to work. On the other hand, it is important that this requirement and this ambition of self-reliance do not automatically lead to them not being able to return home. When you can return home, you have to return home, and that should and must be the clear starting point, even if you have some connection with Denmark before then. At the same time, we, as a country, are contributing humanitarian aid to the areas from which many of these refugees have fled. Danish soldiers have made and continue to make a significant contribution in the fight against ISIL. Danish relief workers make a huge effort to help locally. Denmark, according to our size, is among the countries in the world that do the most in the neighbourhood, and we should be proud of that. It is also an expression of Danish value, and it creates coherence in our foreign policy. And, of course, this also means that when we invest our best young people and many tax dollars in securing peace, it is also right and proper and morally right that we should have the starting point for people we have provided for temporary shelter, returning home and helping to rebuild their country when the situation is there. It is the balance that is in things. It is an alien policy that is strict but respects the conventions. For the alternative to the conventions, the alternative to internationally agreed rules of play is that the largest and strongest decides, and that is an alternative that is not of interest to a small country like Denmark. So temporary stay must be temporary. On the other hand, the people who have a permanent residence in Denmark must be properly integrated. They must have education, they must have work, they must have the opportunity to contribute to the community, and we must also meet them with the expectation that they will. They must take Denmark in. Fortunately, most people do. Denmark has thousands of responsible and skilled foreigners who stand up every day, go to work and contribute to the community, and we should be very happy about that. But as I said in my New Year's speech, it is when the sun shines that the shadows also appear brightly. And there are holes in the Danmark map, there are shadows. There are urban areas and residential areas where too many people with the same problems are lumped together; where you turn your back on the community; where you build a counterculture; where you develop alternative legal systems; where you have no respect for Danish authorities and Danish authorities; where I am deeply concerned and where in reality, to put it bluntly, you abuse our freedoms in the fight to undermine freedom in our society. The opposition from us politicians has often been new rules that apply in general. It is also natural in a country with equality principles and in a state governed by the rule of law, but it often has the consequence that the rules affect too many and are not very effective. I want a fundamental dispute with that approach. I would like us, as in the field of immigration, to focus more on integration where the problems are greatest. That is why the government has announced that within a few weeks we will come up with a proposal for a dispute with parallel societies with the aim of dismantling more ghetto settlements and with the ambition that the inhabitants will be scattered and refurbished in new areas. Some of the children have to go to day care earlier, and we have to punish the parents who, through reeducational trips, will prevent their children from becoming Danish. It needs to be stopped... period. As I said, the government will shortly be presenting an initiative that takes a determined and consistent fight with parallel societies. Because if we do not take a determined and effective approach to the influx, which has come under control and which must remain under control, and with the ambition that temporarily is temporary, and if we do not fight against culture, then we risk losing the broad popular support for Denmark to be an open country for those who can and will. Because that is the second aspect of this debate. It is, so to speak, the second ditch that we are looking so blindly at the problems that we are closing off the opportunities. We must not fall into that ditch, because Denmark's progress is entirely dependent on us being able to attract skilled employees from outside in the future too. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity, as I have done before, to express an annoyance that a majority outside the government has made it harder to attract skilled labour by raising the limit in the amount scheme from DKK 375,000, so that this year it is nearly DKr 420,000. It seems to me that it is not just an unfortunate cost that we have ended up in a situation where a foreign visiting professor gets a fine of thousands of kroner for holding a presentation from the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee. It seems to me that this is a sign that we have outdated rules that do not match a global labour market for highly qualified labour, and if we continue to do so, we will end up undermining our own progress. That is why the government, for example, wants to do something about it. make the opportunities for foreign workers to take on secondary and voluntary employment more flexible. Because we must be able to have an ambition to pursue a policy of aliens which is not one-eyed, in which we are not merely looking blindly at the problems or opportunities, but keeping both our eyes open. We must close off those we find difficult to integrate, but keep open and attract those we urgently need, namely those who enrich Denmark. Denmark is Denmark, and that is the way it should be in the future. We must stand firm on our fundamental values and traditions, but we must not slow down development. We must be able to recognise Denmark in the future, but we must not wish ourselves back to the past. We must be a strong entity which must be arranged in a way in which everyone should not be the same. And for me, values and integration aren't about skin color or belief; it's about choosing Denmark for. And in order to alleviate misunderstandings, I am not blind to the fact that religion, of course, plays a role where integration fails, but we cannot just turn around and say that religion per year. definition is incompatible with integration. It's not about skin color or faith; it's about choosing Denmark for. And you don't do that dressed in burka; you don't do that from the back seat of a police car; and you don't do that if you insist on cultivating your own traditions only from home. This is done by taking our values, our norms and our community to heart, as it were, the whole package. It is the desire, the intention and the will that make all the difference. With that, too, I look forward to today's debate. Once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising it. This is an important debate and I look forward to listening to it and participating in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112101820	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112101839	Thank you for your answer. After all, it is a true and correct statement that we are living in a globalised time of good and evil, and that the world does not look today as it did when I and the Prime Minister went to school. Nevertheless, there is a core that makes Denmark Denmark Denmark and not Germany or England or Turkey or Saudi Arabia some basic values, which have not just been created as if by strokes of pens. If one does not take Denmark's history, culture and belief into account, which has made the country what it is today, then one might well think that the present society has just looked like a blank blueprint, in which we politicians as the architects of society have at one time put some lines, out of which everything has become, so that we now act as social engineers, where everything can be done, as long as we fasten the gears of society and subsequently lubricate them. That thinking seems to me to be fatal because it does not recognise at all that man is a complex historical and cultural being and that society is a covenant between the dead, the living and the not yet born. Let us take foreign policy as a starting point, which is also, as it were, part of the text of the question. Because if one imagines that we can simply let as many people into the country as we have done, both through massive immigration and a massive flow of refugees, and then we can simply draft some integration plans and then solve everything, then I think we are sticking ourselves in the eye, and then I think that we see Denmark as a blueprint and not as the living organism, as a country that has become through generations, where the people have slowly grown together, and where we therefore have the mentality in Denmark that we have. The very idea that we politicians, by turning a gear in the machinery of the welfare state, can easily control and integrate the massive flow of immigrants and refugees who have come to the country with a completely different religious, historical and cultural background, seems to me to be a utopia which only destroys and dissolves the country and which, of course, does not take care of the fundamental truth, as it is that Denmark is an old cultural country. It is clear that our foreign policy has been reasonably clear. What is crucial is that we look after our borders, that we have permanent border controls and that we start sending refugees home whenever possible. It is not just about the flow of immigrants and refugees today that it has fallen, but it is about how many people have accumulated and about how much is important. Then I also believe that if you want to be faithful to reality, you have to see that Islam has begun to mark itself in relation to the political debate. I would like to say there that Islam is not only a religion but also a political ideology, and if you forget that relationship, I think you go wrong in the city. In this political ideology there is a Sharia law that creates parallel societies and creates a parallel legal order that stands in direct contrast to the Danish one. We need to address that clearly. I also believe that we need to address clearly that the situation of women in Islam is of course the greatest and the first victim precisely because of Sharia law. Then we've been talking about...
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102425	Speaking time has actually expired. I'm sorry). It has even been slightly exceeded, but one will have enough opportunity to argue because there are a number of brief comments. However, there is also a proposal for adoption, and it is legal to read it after speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102443	Thank you, President. I'm sorry; I had seen the bell wrong. It won't happen again. But the text of the proposal for adoption is: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there has been such a massive influx of refugees and immigrants to Denmark over the years that it is now and in the long term a serious threat to Denmark as a national state and to the popular cohesion. The Danish Parliament states that there is a need for a new break in Danish immigration policy. Although the influx of refugees has fallen, it is still necessary for the country's borders to be further guarded in relation to accidental immigration and influx of refugees, and for the Parliament and government to start a consistent repatriation of refugees. The Danish Parliament notes that a refugee who has enjoyed protection in Denmark from war and strife must of course return to his own country and help with the construction there whenever possible. There is a clear link between the relationship that, among other things, Syrian refugees from camps in the neighbourhood begin to return home, and the fact that Syrian refugees in Denmark must therefore also return home. V 21). Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102551	Thank you. And the proposal for adoption is from the Danish People's Party. Then there will be an opportunity to debate further, because there are a large number of brief comments. Mrs. Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102604	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I did notice that the Prime Minister, both here and in a chronicle in a newspaper today, tells us that the government believes that we should relax the rules of citizenship when it comes to infringements of the traffic law. After all, we have an area of agreement in which we sit together in both our two parties and the government. I am therefore very interested to hear how the rapporteur feels about the announcement by the Prime Minister here today, so that we should relax the demands we make on people who want to obtain citizenship when it comes to violations of traffic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102640	When we discussed this relationship at the time, I think I remember that it was the government that wanted to have a tightening in relation to traffic rules. It's the way I remember it, but it may be that I'm wrong. But what's the point is, you might think so. It's okay for me. We ourselves have suggested that a ceiling of 1,000 citizens a year should be set and that, moreover, some premises should be introduced to ensure that links with Danish, European and Western culture mean that one has a primacy. We think that in DF is a good idea. But that's something we can discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102737	Thank you. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102738	After all, we have been critical of this relaxation when it was last discussed. Because we actually believe that it is a central part of the requirements for citizenship that the laws of the country are observed, and when we have traffic rules, it is not a joke. Then it is because you put others' lives at risk, for example. drives too fast through small towns or drives too fast in road work. That is why we are not in fact in favour of it at all, but it is good to hear that the Danish People's Party is open to discussion. It can be understood from the Prime Minister that then we may be discussing now. We've been hearing that for a while. But I would just like to sign for an openness on the part of the Danish People's Party to take up the discussions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102822	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102823	Yeah, well, again: Of course you have to abide by the laws of the country. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party are very interested in doing so in all areas. When we discuss this, I think it is a small corner and that we can then discuss whether the rules we have introduced are appropriate. We must, of course, comply with the laws of the country, but what I am saying is crucial for us is that we want to have this citizenship ceiling set. This is the crucial thing for us to do so that we do not just pass out citizenship to people who are not Danish from the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102916	Thank you. We can read today in Berlingske that the Prime Minister believes that the cooperation between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party is harmful to Denmark, and the Prime Minister specifically points to the amount scheme, which is not only the result of our two parties, but also of the SF and Enhedslisten. And here, as the Prime Minister rightly said, we have the limit of DKK 375,000. for 417,000 kroner. What does the Danish People's Party think about that? We can understand from the government that the limit must be lowered. Will the Danish People's Party refuse it, or is the Danish People's Party open to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112102955	Anyone who has followed the debate knows very well what our position on the limit is. Where it's located, it's nice and good. That is our position as a starting point, and my good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has done so. Martin Henriksen also argued in the Chamber and here from Parliament's platform up to several times, so I assume the rapporteur is well aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103028	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103033	I have no other comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103038	Well, that's very, very fine. It is also fine if you are fully aware of the need to press ahead if you want to have the floor for short remarks. Mr. Mattias Tesfaye didn't do it, but I did give it anyway, because I'm accustomed to not getting in, that is. So, sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103053	In his New Year's speech, Prime Minister launched a plan to demolish ghettos, that is to say burdened residential areas around the country, and that is quite a lot of this whole effort to break down parallel societies. Part of the Prime Minister's ambition, which he also mentions here today, is to make sure that people live elsewhere and mix the residents more, and that can also be one of the things that can work in terms of getting people better integrated. But what does the Danish People's Party really think of that idea? I mean, about this, about the fact that, for example, you... could tear down some housing blocks in the Vollsmose district of Odense and then spread the residents, i.e. rehouse them in the rest of Odense, and that similar could be done in other cities around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103134	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103136	Well, now I'm gonna lift a chunk of a part of my past. I lived out in the Gellerup plan from 1972 to 1975 and then lived out there as a student, and these are some nice apartments. But, frankly, I do not think that this is just the concrete issue. I very much believe that what we are discussing here has something to do with mentality. So, Ghetto is not only concrete, it is also mentality, and it is parallel societies, and it is much more than just the concrete that directs this relationship, and I really think we should take this seriously. So that will be my immediate answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103226	Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103228	Thank you. Yes, we agree that it is not necessarily the building material itself that affects people. Nevertheless, I think that Mr. Christian Langballe doesn't really answer whether Dansk Folkeparti will agree to a proposal to rehouse part of the residents of Vollsmose in the rest of Odense. So, is this something that the Danish People's Party will be able to accept as part of tearing down these residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103257	Well, I mean, we're going the longest, when it's the case that this ghetto plan from the government comes to debate the content of it. I think that would be the right thing to do. What I'm just warning you about is the idea of what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that Denmark is just such a blueprint, where by drawing some lines or doing things in a slightly different way, we can change everything. I simply do not believe that. I believe that culture and religious and historical background go much deeper than that which is readily accepted in the general public debate, and I believe that this should be taken seriously. Because if you don't, I think you have some big illusions about what you can and what you can't do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103351	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur and myself share many of the concerns about parallel societies and even some of the problems of Islam in Denmark. In this respect, I appreciate our cooperation. But let us then look at the part that is about qualified labour and that the Danish economy is doing so well right now that we have companies that both in relation to the number of smart heads need to be able to attract labour from abroad, but also need foreigners who come here who can strengthen trade with the United States, Asia and the Middle East. What does the rapporteur think about how sensible it is, for example? to make it more difficult as a majority outside the government has, after all, got through Danish companies to attract foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103448	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103449	Well, I actually believe that most people in Denmark want growth and prosperity, and that means skilled labour as well. However, it has to be weighed against the fact that thinking that the country's growth should be based solely on immigration is a dangerous clue to take, I believe. For then one forgets that in time we can create a proletariat of people who have come to the country and who have nothing to do with the country, but who live in parallel societies. It must therefore be included, and that is why we are part of the majority outside the government, which the rapporteur rightly mentions. This is therefore due to a concern that, through it, we import labour, we can also create parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103600	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103601	I am not saying that the country's economy depends solely on immigration; I am saying that we have companies which, in certain areas, would be very good for having a technician from the United States or an engineer from Canada or Japan to come and contribute. It must therefore be borne in mind that if these people come here after they may have finished their education, and work in Denmark for 5, 10 or 15 years, and then maybe leave Denmark again, it is a huge economic gain for Danish society. Yes, please!). Does the rapporteur not see that it is only something that contributes, especially if people are part of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103640	When I say yes, it is because the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103643	Yes, but I also believe that the Rockwool Foundation stated that Western immigration into the country has actually been a mere surplus business, and I recognise that. I do not think we should forget the basic fact that we also have unemployed Danes at home, and the starting point must therefore be that they come first when there is a labour force to be found, and we must then do everything we can to get them into the labour market. Again, I do not think that the rapporteur fully shares the concern that I have, namely that basing growth solely on immigration, has some problems built into it. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103732	We're just gonna have to try harder, and we're gonna be better. Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103740	Thank you. After all, both the rapporteur and I are taking part in a great many religious debates, not so much on the theology side, but on the terms. So I would like to ask you something, because now that the Danish People's Party sees Islam as a problematic religion, it can be said that we as Danes are very keen to solve the problems we have. Then there is no good advice from the Danish People's Party on how we can get to know each other a little better and make the problems that a law religion can show less and thus have integration across. So it's more about getting some good advice from the Danish People's Party on how to get rid of that challenge a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103825	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103827	That is the main question, and if I had a clear answer to it, I would have put it in the rapporteur's speech, because that is the main question. Indeed, I believe that integration can be achieved if it is that people want to be integrated into Danish society. I can then be a little more doubtful about the many integration plans that have been over time. I do not think that they have taken care of the basic fact that man is a spiritual being, who comes up with certain cultural, historical and religious assumptions that give the world picture that some of these people are walking around with. How and how do you solve it? That's a very good question. But what I think should be done as a starting point is, after all, to have the ideological part of Islam lost, which is also the Sharia part. I really believe that every effort must be made to combat this tendency to create a parallel legal order and a parallel society, because it is devastating for cohesion, not only in Denmark, but throughout Europe, where the countries are facing the same problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103941	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112103944	I would like to sign for the little optimism that I think I hear in the answer, and then just ask briefly: if it is not more association, is it not more dialogue, is it not more conversation that needs to be held so that we can also point out the democratic paths that we have been building for many years? So more time for integration, more time for conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104010	Yes, but we are now living in an open political culture, where discussion and political discussion are alpha and omega, so it is clear that we must be able to talk. However, we should not, of course, restrict or try to conceal the fact that there are essential prerequisites for the political, the religious, that exist. If you want to have the debate open on those grounds, you must always be willing to take it. That is also the debate we are taking here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104047	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104049	Thank you. In December's very lively debate between the government and the Danish People's Party, you could hear the Danish People's Party repeatedly say that refugees on temporary stays should not work while they are here. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether that really is right. So, my own view is that idleness is the root of all evil, and besides, it is considerably more expensive for the Danish community to have refugees on passive public support rather than being able to maintain their own existence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104121	Let me just say what is crucial in this, because we can go a long way about this: what Danish policy has traditionally been based on is integration. Then we'll try to turn things around. At the moment, we have people who are going on this integration course, igu, and who will then be entitled to benefits in two years' time. So we think that is fatal. There we simply believe that the crucial thing is that the people who come to this country and enjoy temporary protection, of course, as soon as possible, should return home. That's what's the foundation for it. What the time is needed for while they're here is another question. In any case, I believe that if it is a matter of work, the starting point must be that the work that one might then have to take is actually aimed at returning home. That must be the crucial point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104233	After all, the social democracy is very much in agreement that if you are on a temporary basis and the situation in the country of origin of the person concerned changes in a way that allows you to come back again, then of course you have to return again. However, my question was as to whether we should not use the time when we are here on a temporary basis to do something sensible and get some competences, but perhaps most importantly of all to pay for our own life. Otherwise, of course, the taxpayers will be required to pay for the people we accept for temporary stays, and surely that cannot be appropriate. If it is the link that the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party are nervous about, you can change the rules of association, so that work on temporary residence does not necessarily give rise to the possibility of staying in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104319	This is one of the problems we have just had, and I am glad if the Social Democrats enter into that discussion. Because that has been one of the problems. It can be said that the better we do it here in Denmark, the more difficult it will actually be to send people back again because they gain an attachment. If we can change that relationship, that's fine for me. That's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104349	This is, in many ways, a rather peculiar debate. But when Mr. Christian Langballe now makes a connection between Islam and women's oppression, it has to be said that it is true that in many minority environments there is oppression of women and social control, etc. That is absolutely correct. But that has also been the case in Denmark, and if someone has fought the liberation of women, then it is the great people of the Danish People's Party. Take a man like Søren Krarup. Over the years, he has simply been fighting against the liberation of women, has argued that women should go back to meat pots, that women should stay at home and look after children and that they should not go to day care. In other words, the national conservative movement, as Mr. Christian Langballe is a part of, of course, those who over the years have fought women's liberation here in Denmark. It's the left who's been fighting for it. Therefore, to the extent that the liberation of women is a Danish value, I think you can say that it is, and I am very glad that it is so that it is not people like Mr. Christian Langballe and Søren Krarup, who caused it. Then it is because over the years the rest of us have fought for it, and that is why it is a little absurd to talk about Danish values in the way Mr. Christian Langballe does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104516	In other words, it is just now that I do not really want to comment on the rapporteur's glum remarks. It's like it used to be. What I see, then, is what we are talking about, and anyone who sits down and reads in these Sharia complexes and Sharia law, can see what we are talking about, and the rapporteur can be so relative in making a lot of unsubstantiated, strange observations, which I think are just silly and which, of course, only relate to a sensible debate. I have to say that the left has been virtually totally absent from the debate on Islam, and I do not really understand that. But it's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104616	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104618	Well, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the National Conservative Movement, as sir. Christian Langballe is the spokesperson. It is, of course, the movement which over the years has oppressed women, which has argued that women should go back to the meat pots, that the children have been opposed to attending day-care centres, which have opposed the release of women, particularly in the 1960s, 1970s and beyond. That's just the case. That is why, when we talk about Danish values, as Mr. Christian Langballe does, indeed it is a matter of values that have come into being through a struggle over the years when there are some people, the reactionaries, as Mr. Christian Langballe and Søren Krarup and the National Conservatives have been part of that struggle. It's just the truth of this. That's why we also have to see this debate on values that I sometimes think is something weird, but we can return to that in connection with the fact that there has been a struggle over them over the years here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104719	Yeah, but I just think it's thought-provoking with the remarks that I think are distorted and totally ridiculous. After all, it is thought-provoking in this debate that the left has not taken part in the debate on Islam at all, not at all, and that seems a little strange to me. I remember from when I was young, when you really raised the tab, the red tab, against the church and the priests and everything else, and what about the Imams? What about those women who are really oppressed? We are talking about a system of oppression that is so massive that the gods must have mercy, and I am trying to lift that. I have expressed my opinion in this speech, and that certainly also concerns those women who are forced to be at home and who are forced to wear niqab or veil or whatever it is. It does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104821	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104823	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that it is a problem if Danish companies, for example: in rural areas, must close because they do not have access to the necessary labour force?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104840	If I may take up the fundamental discussion, I would say that, of course, I think it is useful and good for the country that companies have the manpower they need. On the other hand, however, I would say that if the strategy that exists is simply to say that we have to open the borders to both refugees and immigrants, then we have a supply of labour which will then have to cover the companies and then have something to choose from, because that is often what they want, so that they not only have one, but perhaps have ten to choose from, if that is the strategy behind the strategy, then we are not in, and the rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104924	Here you go, Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104925	Well, that is a fine nuance and a view that I recognise that the Danish People's Party has and that I know very well. I just couldn't really tell if it was a yes or a no on the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112104941	Now reality is the test of everything. In other words, when it comes to labour, I believe that there are many considerations to be taken into account, among others. the fact that we believe that we should have Danish labour. We recognise that there are companies at home that need highly trained labour. That's what they say. And I kind of acknowledge that. But there still needs to be a reasonable balance. I remember the old mayor of New York, Bloomberg, asking: What is the foundation for the growth of the United States? And then he answered immigration. Then you can keep printing wages and having cheap labor. I think that may be questionable growth potential, at least for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105021	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105023	Now this debate has, at least for the time being, been held in the course of Mr Seligman's speech. Christian Langballe's post, mostly about the others. I also find it interesting to have a debate on our values, because are we in complete agreement on them? And that is why I would like to ask Mr. Christian Langballe, if he agrees with me that it is a Danish value that we should equate the love of couples of different sexes, thus giving them completely equal conditions. Is Mr. Christian Langballe agrees with me that it is a Danish value and that we should be vigilant about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105103	In other words, when we had this debate about the marriage of people of the same sex at the time, we had a fundamental debate about whether the homosexual marriage should, so to speak, just be introduced into the church, that is to say whether one should just roll out and say that it should be introduced. That was the debate then. If you ask me whether it is a Danish value to accept and acknowledge that people of the same sex can love each other, then I will answer yes; I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105143	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105145	That's generous. It is really generous that the Danish People's Party would like to recognise it and give other people the right to decide for themselves who they love. There are so many other things besides it, marriage etc. etc. However, I would like to move on to the second point, because I actually think that the discussion about our own values and how we deal with them is at least as interesting as the discussion about the others. And there I would like to ask about a value or an attitude in relation to the death penalty. Well, I really think it would be out of the question to support the death penalty, and I expect that too, Mr President. Christian Langballe agrees with me. Then I just want to hear how he feels about it in the last measurement I saw is 36%. by the voters of the Danish People's Party who are in favour of the death penalty. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105229	May I just say that this is not a debate on the issues raised by Mrs Zenia Stampe. I am very flexible in relation to what you might ask, but this is a debate focusing on the challenges arising from immigration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105243	So let me begin by saying that this was an enormously haughty way: first you ask me a question which I answer positively, and then you conclude that it was extremely generous. I didn't sense the kindness of it, it has to be confessed honestly. With regard to the death penalty, I would say: No, I am not in favour of the death penalty, and the Danish People's Party does not. What our electorate does and does not do is not something that I have to go in and direct, one-way, organize and everything. I note what is my position and what is the party's policy finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105331	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105333	If I understand the Danish People's Party correctly, and the rapporteur must finally correct me, if I have misunderstood something, then the Danish People's Party believes that refugees who come to Denmark should not actually be integrated, but should live for themselves, perhaps in some sort of centre, and they should not be allowed to take a job and support themselves and their families, nor should the children have access to a Danish folk school and finally correct me if I am wrong. If it is true that it is the view of the Danish People's Party on how to receive refugees who come to Denmark, my question is: is there any upper limit to how long refugees should be able to be in that situation? I mean, is it 1 year, 2 years, 3 years or 10 years? How long will the Danish People's Party think it is reasonable for refugees to live in Denmark, which we have thus given up, because we have recognised that they are in danger in their country of origin, such as Denmark. do not get access to primary and Danish society by the way? Is there a time limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105443	I should first like to highlight a point: I think that when Enhedslisten is going to contribute to this debate, it never happens by taking responsibility. It always happens on a huge abstract basis, where you fly around in space without contact to the ordinary reality in which we live. The starting point is that the refugees who have arrived in this country enjoy temporary protection, with the aim of naturally returning home. I would say that is such a fundamental matter of course that it is actually strange that we are discussing it at all. I do not know what Enhedslisten thinks of it, because it is always very difficult to get a clear answer when it comes to taking decisions that are not just in the wake of the hallelujah humanism that is cultivated on the left, but my starting point is that people should of course go home. Is there a limit to how long or how little time should be allowed? Basically, they have to go home, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105603	It was a great deal of speaking time and a great many words that were used not to answer the question, perhaps the rapporteur should finally answer it. But I can try again: Is there an upper time limit for how long e.g. children who have either come to Denmark with parents who are refugees or who have been born in Denmark by parents who are refugees, must live in isolation, can you say without having access to society in any other way? This is how I understand the Danish People's Party's politics. And I think it must be possible to answer it, since it is the Danish People's Party's own policy that we are discussing here, and since the Danish People's Party has just been back on track and presented it here as their policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105652	Well, I would like to say from the outset that it sounds as if the rapporteur is aware that this is a major problem. I do not think so. I do not think it is a punishment to return to your country. I do not think it is a punishment to return to the country from which you come and help build it up. So how long can it take? It could be a long time. What, then, is the problem of work and integration and all sorts of things? It is that the link with Denmark is going to increase. That's what we're trying to solve. So the starting point is that when people come to this country and enjoy protection, they must of course return home. That is the starting point. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105739	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105741	Thank you. But I would like to follow up on that question, because I still do not think the rapporteur is responding to it. I shall not be able to say why Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is asking the question, but then I can explain why I am asking the question. That is because I think there is an upper limit to how long people can be kept isolated and, in particular, children. If we now agree to the rapporteur's premise that people should be sent back as soon as they can, then we know from the statistics that there can be really, very many years. I believe that the average number of people on the run before they have an opportunity to return home is 17 years old. For example, is it... the figure on which the rapporteur accepts that people should then be kept separate from Danish society because they are going home?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105830	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105831	Yes, it could be helpful in this regard to hear what the rapporteur himself thinks and what the alternative means, because I sometimes find it very difficult to find out whether what is the starting point for the alternative, and indeed the Enhedslisten, is that all the people who enter this country should just be integrated from day one, and that is it. Yeah, they're going home. The starting point is that when there is peace and no danger in their country of origin, they have to go home. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105903	I will explain what the alternative seems to me when I come to the floor a little later, but I would like to ask the question again. It must be possible for the rapporteur to answer: is there an upper time limit, is there a number of years when people themselves say in the Danish People's Party that no, it is too long, we cannot keep people isolated for that long? I also think that some of the other issues that have been raised in this Chamber are very relevant. Well, we have, among other things. need their labour force. So is there an upper time limit in relation to how long people should be kept separate from Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112105941	Now I have tried to explain what the premises of the failed policy that we have greatly cultivated in Denmark have been, namely the fact that the better we do, so to speak, in terms of integration, the more difficult it will be to send people back. And that's not the starting point. I would also like to say with regard to labour: it is fine that there are some who contribute to Danish society in terms of labour, but I do believe that the best foreign aid one can give at all will be that those people, when there is peace and no danger, come back to their own country and help with what they can do there. That must be the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110023	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110044	When I was born in 1981, I had 1%. of the population of non-western background like my father. In 2016, 22 per cent was spent. of all children born of women who are either immigrants or descendants of non-western countries. So the population is changing, and it is going relatively fast, not only in Denmark, but throughout Europe. Citizens with roots in Congo or Syria or Somalia are neither worse nor better people than all of us, but as legislators we obviously have a responsibility to assess the overall impact on society of this change in the composition of the population. Here we cannot afford to lose ourselves in a nice neighbor who is studying law or the hardworking colleague we know from the workshop. We cannot be indifferent to statistics on employment rates, support costs, health features, crime statistics, placement cases and discrimination. We need to be able to provide practitioners for everyone in this society. We must be able to ensure proper reception in our schools, Danish education, housing. We need an association life that also has a surplus to receive the families and everything else it takes to replant a family to Danish society. We have underestimated all this over the last few decades. It is the view of the Social Democrats that we have been distributing too many new residence permits for many years and that it has been working on solidarity in society. We are therefore pleased that there is increasing political attention to the fact that the capacity of society is not endless, that we must be able to keep up with it. We simply need to solve more problems than we are creating. Otherwise, we will only create more cultural conflicts, more vulnerable residential areas, greater economic challenges, more children growing up in Denmark without the necessary help. Today we have many citizens who live large parts of their lives more or less isolated in vulnerable residential areas. Those areas are the accumulations of cultural, political and social problems from the past. It is a social debt that grew because for decades we have created more integration problems than we have solved. When we have managed to find work for 100 refugees, 200 new ones have arrived on the border. When 100 young women have been allowed to choose their own partner, 200 new families with outdated perceptions of gender and family have arrived. When we have helped 100 traumatized with psychological help, 200 more people have arrived with scars on the souls of torture cellars and persecution. Integration is therefore not a failure, as is often heard in the debate. A lot actually succeeded every day. It is possible to replant people to Danish conditions. It just costs more money. It takes longer, and it leads to more cultural conflicts than the vast majority of us had imagined. This has meant that we have simply not been able to keep up, and therefore the debt has piled up in Mjølnerparken, in Tingbjerg, in Vollsmose, in Gellerup and in many other places. Those residential areas are problematic, but it does not absolve all of us. The vulnerable residential areas are primarily the expression of society's overall accumulation of problems. It is a common debt that must now be paid jointly. Our assessment is that for a number of years Danish society has not even been able to pay the interest on this debt. It was coming out of control. It is not out of control as several places in Sweden and Germany, but we were on our way in that direction, and therefore we need two political considerations to ensure that for a number of years we are not just able to solve more problems than we are creating for a few years. Firstly, the influx must be kept down so that there are not too many new problems. The Folketing has adopted a number of laws to ensure this with a fairly successful outcome. Secondly, we need to strengthen integration so that we can pay for the sins of the past, and here there are two major political approaches: 1) We need to spread the challenge. We want to do this in crèches, kindergartens, schools, colleges and residential areas. Politicians simply need to be less handy and more active in the distribution of pupils, the direction of housing and the use of common institutions by families. Why are we still discussing whether a family where Danish is not spoken at home should send their children to crèche? It's not okay. 2) We must win the new arrivals for the Danish democratic values: participation in working life, the liberation of women, the democratic raising of children, religion is a personal matter and therefore not a matter for regulation, not a political matter. We must not only accept, but support the freedoms of the Constitution and the desire to defend them. We have the support of the majority of immigrants to these values, but far too large minorities have not joined democratic values. I know very well that some people regard integration as a failure that will never succeed. That is not the view of the Social Democrats. It can be done. We can do this. I also know that other parties are less concerned than the Social Democratic Party and therefore do not see the great need to keep the influx down. Once again, we must encourage reflection, particularly among those parties which wish to point to a Socialist Prime Minister. We simply need more reality. I hope that there will be an opportunity to discuss these issues today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110555	Thank you. There is a vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110559	It is a vote only from the Social Democratic Party. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants a fair immigration policy that balances our obligations to people with a need for protection and the need for cohesion in Danish society. The Danish Parliament therefore wants Denmark to support the international conventions and organisations that are trying to deal with the serious refugee situation. The aim of a future asylum system must be to help as many refugees as possible not to permanently resettle millions of people in Europe. The refugees who, with the current asylum system, come to Europe and Denmark should enter the labour market and learn the language. The Danish Parliament therefore supports agreements made with the social partners, including basic integration training (IGU). Once the basis for the refugees' temporary residence permit in Denmark is gone, the residence permit should not be renewed. Instead, Denmark must support the former refugees in returning home and participating in the reconstruction of their own country. Thus, the Folketing is opposed to lowering the limit on the amount in order to grant more residence permits to nationals of non-EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110658	Thank you. Has the proposal been delivered? Or I'll take it. Thank you. Then there are some questions, comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110708	Thank you. After all, I am glad that the rapporteur's party has finally begun to realise the challenges of a relaxed immigration policy, which has contributed to the problem we are facing now. However, another area is so qualified foreign labour, in which I in no way believe that social democracy is pursuing a responsible policy. A few months ago, Mrs Mette Frederiksen came up with five major challenges in which she said that one of them is that many companies already lack skilled labour. Blacksmiths, engineers, electricians say Mette Frederiksen. If we look forward a little, the problem will only grow bigger. It is economically irresponsible, i.e. the lack of skilled labour. How, then, can the Social Democratic Party be in favour of making it harder for Danish companies to attract skilled labour from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110802	As far as blacksmiths and electricians are concerned, I have a few recommendations for the government. Point 1: Don't keep cutting vocational schools. Paragraph 2: I have a recommendation to employers. There are 10,000 young people now who do not have an ordinary training agreement with a company. You could start by learning them. We should not wait four years there for them to stand by the lathe. You can start tomorrow. An apprentice is part of the production. To the extent that it is still not possible to obtain skilled labour, and there are places in Denmark where it is not, we have half a billion people living in Europe. So the labour market for Danish companies is not small. As far as engineers are concerned, I would recommend that those companies use what is called the positive list, which is a list of which courses to obtain residence permits in Denmark on the basis of. It says engineers, among other things. On. So I do not see the problem, and I do not think that we should use the money system as an access for unskilled and skilled workers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110857	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110900	I'm sorry, like the President, I forgot to push myself in. But the rapporteur must listen to the many companies who say that they need foreign labour, and that is fine enough to say: we have a European market where there are 500 million, but we are also trading with China, we are trading with the United States, we are trading with Australia. In other words, people outside Europe are needed to contribute to Danish companies, and the rapporteur's party is therefore only making it more difficult at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112110929	It is true that there are plenty of companies that need foreign labour and they use the arrangements that exist. It works excellently. There are plenty of foreigners working in Denmark. Those who are here on the positive list because they have some education that we need. Those who are here on the amount scheme because they earn more than DKK 417,000. a year. We think that is fair. We see no reason, as the Minister for Finance has said, for lowering the limit by 100,000. It is quite violent, it is quite a lot of Danes' work that must suddenly be opened up to people from Africa and Asia, and I see no basis for that. As far as European labour is concerned, one can take an industry such as agriculture, to which I know the Left has little connection. Every third working in agriculture today does not have Danish citizenship. It is not because there are no foreigners coming to Denmark. They just come up with the excellent arrangements we have, and not through a lowering of the amount regime, which I understand is on the way from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111017	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111020	Thank you, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech and some wise and necessary considerations. I would like to ask what the position of the Social Democratic Party is about the fact that we have to reverse the refugee policy so that refugees are actually sent back when there is peace and no danger.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111052	We are in favour of this and we have been in favour of it for many years. I mean, you get a temporary residence permit when you get here. What has just been the challenge is that, in practice, they have all turned into a permanent residence permit. And we think it is quite reasonable to discuss how it can be ensured that when you have a temporary stay in Denmark, it will also be a temporary stay. And that requires that we get into the discussion that was on the platform when Mr. Christian Langballe was here, namely: When do we perceive that there is attachment? And we would very much like to be involved in discussing what needs to be done specifically so that we can refuse to extend more residence permits. We think it is quite reasonable to say to people when they come here: Welcome to Denmark. Here is our healthcare system, here is our education system, here is our voluntary association life, and you can be as long as you need protection. But when you don't need protection anymore, we'll pay you a plane ticket home, and then we hope you'll take part in the reconstruction in your own country. If I were to meet the kind of demands in a country to which I had fled, then I would say thank you and that I think that these are reasonable conditions for arriving.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111153	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111155	It's just because it's a well-known case that the rest of the left doesn't exactly subscribe to that view. So it's kind of just to get clear lines. Because in our party we have the basic view that for many years it has been the case that one first got temporary residence, then one got a permanent stay, and on the horizon there waved citizenship at the end. And there I think it is time to reverse the idea of refugees returning home and helping to build their own country. That must be the prerequisite for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111237	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111238	Yes, I agree with that, and if we are now to be honest with each other, I think that is also the expectation that we have met with many newly arrived refugees and family members. The whole municipal integration programme that has started, and the whole public atmosphere about refugees, is, of course, that it is the beginning of a life in Denmark, which must also end in Denmark. We need to put an end to this, and we would very much like to take part in it. So, I think we should be honest and say that those seeking asylum in Denmark do not seek asylum in Denmark because they come directly from a war zone. A lot of them have lived in a refugee camp where they do not think there has been any perspective in their lives and for their children. And they've been thinking, where's the perspective for my family? And there they have made the obvious decision that there could of course be in Europe, including Denmark, and then they have applied to Denmark. Not only to seek temporary protection, but to establish a life for the rest of their lives. And we need to get into that discussion. The Danish People's Party has talked about a paradigm change, and I agree with that. The discussion is just how, in other words, what needs to be changed in concrete terms in the criteria for when links have been achieved, in other words, in relation to the fact that we can refuse to extend more residence permits. I am very much looking forward to participating in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111349	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111350	Thank you. I'm a little curious about what the Social Democrats are thinking about the government's new plans in terms of tearing down the ghettos. The fact is that since the year 2000, more than 1 billion have been spent. kr. out in Vollsmose on various housing social overall plans and that it has largely all failed. If you compare that with the fact that we are now tearing down some buildings and redistributing some of those who live there, I ask myself: what would make the difference? And there I am a little curious about what the Social Democrats think in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111430	First of all, I would like to say about many of the social efforts that have been made with pool funds and land-building funds, and what I know is that I think we should generally move from smaller, temporary appropriations to short-term projects that go to write evaluations and everything else, to give more resources to the supporting institutions, which have also freed all of us. Well, not all possible consultants gave me a proper upbringing. It was a well-functioning kindergarten, a well-functioning school, a well-functioning leisure life and a leisure job as a newspaper messenger for Århus Stiftstidende, who worked. It is the large, supporting institutions that will make integration succeed. It's not gonna be all these temporary projects. Secondly, with regard to the overthrow of housing blocks, we are very much in favour of it. So, the Social Democracy has done nothing more in Copenhagen than to overturn slums for the past 100 years, and we would very much like to overthrow some of the vulnerable residential areas that do not work. So we have supported it in Taastrupgaard, in Gellerup and elsewhere, among others. in Korsør, where housing blocks have been knocked over. What is the tickling question is who should pay for it and where residents should be assigned new accommodation. We do not think there was any answer to that in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, but it may be that when the government's ghetto plan is presented. But at least the Social Democrats have no fear of starting a bulldozer. If it's just to raise an area, we're all in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111543	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111544	But one of the major challenges is religious speciality, and that is, in fact, some of the things that help create parallel societies. In other words, when we accept, for example, religiously prepared food out in the daily institutions, we are thus helping to stamp out the fact that you have another culture that you take with you into our institutions. And that's how you can keep doing it. You can imagine a workplace where you could say: don't wear your scarf here. But then you choose to bend over because trouble is being caused, and then you straighten in. And that is what we need to put an end to. We are about to say: Now you are in Denmark, when you are out on the labour market, it is the Danish rules that apply; when your child is in day care, it is the Danish culture that prevails. Does the Social Democratic Party agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111628	Thank you. Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111629	I think we have had a lot of standards in this society that we have not written down, but which have just been standards, for example. that we did not prepare food in a daycare institution's kitchen for religious reasons. It's just been a standard in the 1950s and 1960s. No one has questioned that. Suddenly there are some people, among them. in my own children's daycare institution, which wants to have a discussion about the role of pork in the daycare centre's kitchen. And there I am very much in favour of the decision which both the author's party and my own party have taken and I think the whole of the Albertslund Municipal Council has taken, namely to write down what was previously a norm, i.e. an unwritten rule, so that it becomes a written rule. And that is that pork and beef and lamb are served, but vegetarians and allergy sufferers are taken into account and also children who do not eat pork. We think that is quite reasonable. It just doesn't have to dictate how everyone else has to organize their food culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111718	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111719	I would like to thank you for the very good words of Mr. Mattias Tesfaye on the need for a tighter immigration policy. These are words that I could almost have said myself, and I thought it was a very good speech. But one thing is words, and one thing is action. When the Social Democrats had the power of government last time, the Radical Left stated that it had relaxed foreign policy 45 times. We can discuss how many times it is, because it depends on how much we break down the individual initiatives, but there is no doubt that the Socialists were responsible for a large number of relaxations in foreign policy against the government we have now and which has made a large number of tightenings in foreign policy. And there I would like to know whether the Socialists regret their actions from the last period of government, or whether they intend to repeat it here, because if there is no regret for what was done last time, we have to assume that the actions that have been committed will be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111818	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111818-2	We think that several of the decisions taken in the field of foreigners, while Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister, were wrong. Let me just give you one example. I was re-elected in 2015 and came to the Parliamentary Committee on Birthrights and noticed how many people got citizenship, although they couldn't a word Danish - not a word because we granted dispensation to everyone with medical statements where it said they had post-traumatic stress. I think that is completely, completely hopeless and crazy, and it was some rules that existed before the 2015 elections. Now we have been involved with the government and the Danish People's Party in making a new agreement that does not grant exemption from the Danish requirement in the same way. I think that is obviously positive and right, and I will do everything I can to ensure that we do not drift back into it and distribute citizenship to people who do not know the language and therefore cannot participate in the debate and function in the society in which they now have to influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111914	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111915	I think that is very positive, and I think it is very, very positive, that some of the errors that may have been made when one was last in government are clearly rejected. I think that's very honest talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111930	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112111933	After all, the Prime Minister stirred up awareness when he said in his opening speech that integration is not about skin colour or religion. It may have aroused even more awareness that it fell to the head of the Social Democratic Party, for as I had understood the Prime Minister, he was just trying to say that one can become a Dane, even if one is a Muslim, even a practicing Muslim. In any case, I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mattias Tesfaye, whether he believes that Islam and Muslims are a problem, and whether one can become and can be a Dane, even if one is a practicing Muslim.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112022	For social democracy and for me, the debate on integration and the debate on values are not a fight against Islam. It's not. It is a struggle for democracy. But where religion and democracy collide, it is God who has a duty to give way. So if it says in the Koran that you have to drive on the left side of the road, and it says in the Road Traffic Act that you have to drive on the right side of the road, then you have to drive on the right side of the road. It's no good to come up with your religious rules and say, "There are other rules for me." It is self-evident when we talk about traffic in traffic, but this also applies to the movement of the rest of society. If, for example, you're gonna have to... come to a parents' meeting in a daycare centre and say that you are a Muslim and are entitled not to heat the liver pie in the oven until they heat the chicken fries, otherwise there is pork in the air in the oven, we just have to say: listen here, we respect religion in this country, and we are ready to go very far to respect people's religion and take religious speciality, but we are not subject to it. There is a difference between accepting and submitting. That distinction has been far too poor for us to make and therefore, in practice, pork has disappeared from many day-care kitchens. Some people think this is a ridiculous discussion. I do not think so, because in the course of the debate there are some really fundamental considerations about the difference between submission and respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112138	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112140	Those are words that I'm glad to hear. Now there has been such a flirt between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, and let me then try to tell what I get from the rapporteur's answer is the difference between the position of the Danish People's Party and the position of the Social Democratic Party, and of course I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflection on that. As I understand the rapporteur, he says that religion must give way to democracy. I agree with that. As I hear the Danish People's Party, even today from the platform of Mr. Christian Langballe, they say: Islam. So they say that religion, Islam, is a problem. Is it true that this is a difference between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112228	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112236	Since 1979 and the Iranian revolution, there has been an awakening movement in international Islam which also and perhaps particularly affects Muslims in Western Europe, and it is, as in our reformation 500 years ago, some people who seek back to the original writings and interpret it all very richly. Luther was helped by Gutenberg and his printing press. The radical Islamists then get the help of YouTube to spread their message. Both revival movements are stick-conservative and reactionary and must be combated. We are in the fortunate situation in Western Europe and in Denmark that the majority of Danish Muslims have long since joined democracy. We must ally ourselves with them in the fight against reactionary and anti-democratic forces. What I just think is important to have said and understand is that it is not a marginal minority of Muslims in Denmark who have problems fully joining democracy. Unfortunately, it is an excessive minority, but it is a minority. And the ideological and value-related struggle I believe that the whole parliament should join democracy. There I think we agree with the Danish People's Party. But where we may disagree is in the assessment of how big a problem religion itself is and whether, as a Muslim, you have the opportunity to join democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112349	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112351	Thank you. Soon after the 2015 elections, when migrants rolled up the Danish motorways, a resourceful journalist asked one of these migrants: Why don't you stay here? It's peaceful here. And if you claim to be a fugitive, you can easily stop here because there is peace in Denmark. The answer was: they give more money in Sweden. It is then one of the most effective tightenings that have been made in relation to limiting the influx to Denmark. That is the restriction on how much money can be obtained from the public sector. Where do the Social Democrats stand here? Should there be a new majority after the elections, we know that there will be massive pressure on the Socialists to increase the benefits for refugees and migrants again. Does the Social Democratic Party stand firm and can it be denied that this will ever happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112445-2	Well, 24 hours ago, I was standing on this platform, rejecting a bill to reduce integration benefits by 3%. And our arguments are actually the same today as they were two years ago. We recognise that this is important for the influx, and we think it is reasonable that there may be a principle of income in relation to some social benefits, just as there has been a retirement pension and early retirement for many years, and just as there has been a child's check, and also in the area of cash benefits. We really think this is reasonable, just as we think it is reasonable that there should be a special incentive to get into education and employment for people who have come to Denmark. It weighs heavily on the scale of the integration service. But there is also something that weighs heavily on the other scales. And that is that there are quite a lot of children in Denmark who grow up with for and we do not think that is solved with the integration benefit that is on the table now. We proposed something when it was negotiated in autumn 2015, but it was swept off the table by the Danish People's Party and the government, which is why we are not in the agreement. We still think that there is a solution to the problem that these children have too many deprivations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112546	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112548	So in other words, if the majority tips in the Parliamentary Chamber, we will again raise the benefits to new arrivals who have never contributed to society and thus become the magnet that we used to be. And the migrant who said to the journalist that he went on to Sweden will say that he is now staying in Denmark, because there is plenty of money to get here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112615	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112617	I do not think that is a fair interpretation of the policy of social democracy. What we have said, as I said before, is that we can easily see the benefits of the integration service. We just think there's something that hasn't been resolved. This does not lead us to turn back to the old system, which we do not think was ideal either. On the contrary, it makes us think about what a new system might look like. And we would very much like to present this also to the Danish People's Party, in good time before a parliamentary election, but it will not be today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112643	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112112651	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on this very, very important issue, which obviously comes at a time when value policy and parallel societies are already in focus. Danish society has developed in recent decades at such a rate that not all parts of the country or all parts of our society can keep up. For decades, we have welcomed a large number of people from non-western countries, many of whom are refugees. Many people who have taken Denmark and our Danish values to heart and become an integral part of our society. Unfortunately, however, there are also large groups that have not taken Denmark to heart, which have established themselves in parallel societies in ghettos, where you live in a parallel universe far from Danish society, far from the Danish labour market, far from the Danish values sets. As the Prime Minister said in his New Year's speech: There are holes in the Danish map where Denmark is no longer Denmark. That is precisely why I welcome today's debate, because I very much share the concern of the Danish People's Party. Only last night I took part in a television debate, where the subject here too was parallel society and integration. The usual figures were thrown back and forth: non-western immigration costs 33 billion. kr. per year; that only 12%. of Syrian women are working after 3 years in Denmark; that we increasingly see young people who, although born in Denmark, have problems with the Danish language when they start school. The problems are many, and they cross age groups and the Danish map. This is precisely why the new government took a completely new approach to the challenge back in 2015. An historically high number of asylum restrictions has been implemented, which has contributed to the fact that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers for 9 years. Then there are some who say that it is just because you have closed the Balkan route and because you have border controls down through Europe, but look at the clear figures: in 2017 there were approx. 30,000 asylum seekers to Sweden • 30,000 • versus just 3,500 for Denmark. Thus, despite passport checks at the bridge, despite various other obstacles, Sweden received 7 times as many asylum seekers as Denmark, so our new government is clearly doing things right here in Denmark at long last in relation to the previous government. At the same time, we have turned the entire integration effort upside down. We have got massively more refugees into work, from about 1 out of 10 to 3 out of 10 after just 3 years of stay in Denmark. We believe that refugees should contribute to Danish society and strengthen their competences while they are in Denmark, with the clear aim that they can return to their home countries and contribute as soon as conditions allow. The very last thing here, namely that refugees are going back home, I am thinking in particular of temporary refugees, is now in the forefront of our work, because war refugees must once again return home and rebuild their countries as soon as possible. The purpose of temporary asylum in Denmark is not that it is a motorway for everyone to stay in Denmark. In addition, the government, along with its efforts to keep the number of asylum seekers low and to have war refugees repatriated, is putting the finishing touches on an initiative to counter ghettos and parallel societies here in Denmark. For there are groups of them Danish citizens who stay in Denmark and which we must and must have to be part of our society, values and culture. Then there is the part of the immigration policy where, unfortunately, we do not always agree with the Danish People's Party. For example, in the case of foreign labour, it is coming to Denmark to contribute. It could be an engineer working for Mærsk; it could be a biochemist working for Novo; it could be a foreigner coming to work with Siemens and helping with their trade with Asia, for example. Pakistan, where Siemens p.t. is expanding; it could also be a Dane • e.g. a Danish businessman or businesswoman who wants to bring his or her spouse back to Denmark, a spouse who wants to be part of the Danish society. After all, we wish to welcome them. Summa summarum I look forward to a really productive 2018 in which the government, in close cooperation with the Danish People's Party, continues the really good and groundbreaking work of continuing to keep the asylum influx low and under control and also like even lower, to have the refugees who come from war zones repatriated when conditions allow, and to integrate the groups in Denmark that are to become part of our society, but also to keep a balance, so that foreign workers and foreigners who take Danish values into their own are still welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113216	There are a number of brief comments. The first one goes to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113223	Thank you. I would, of course, like to sign for the many restrictions that we have adopted jointly, that is quite excellent, but we should like to move on. A lot has already been said about this paradigm shift, in relation to being better at sending refugees home as soon as it is possible, and we will have the opportunity to discuss this again. I would like to ask you about many of these special requirements, which apply in different places in our public institutions, kindergartens and schools, i.e. religious specialties, which are being taken, such as the granting of the Ramadan, etc., marks what it might be in our public institutions. We in the Danish People's Party should not do that. I would like to know whether the Left believes that new legislative initiatives should be introduced to meet the particular requirements and religious concerns of our institutions, kindergartens, schools and so on. Today, or whether you think it is enough just to give some political signals, that is to say, talk about it and so on. Should we come up with concrete legislative initiatives, and if the answer is yes, which?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113322	I am sure the rapporteur can calculate that I would say that I very much share the rapporteur's concern. And the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned this before, in relation to the fact that it is extremely worrying if a kindergarten does not want to serve pork for the sake of minorities. Well, we are one of the world's leading manufacturers of e.g. pork, it is a proud tradition in the Danish cuisine to eat pork, and we must of course hold on to that. Now we are facing a series of negotiations here in the coming weeks and perhaps longer, so I will not go down in individual points. I do not think that would be sensible in relation to the negotiations. But all measures that contribute to maintaining Danish culture and Danish values etc. In institutions and so on, I welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113416	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113418	Thank you. I would therefore call on the Left to consider whether there is no possibility, and if it does not make sense, that more legislation is also being used to say that there are some things that are unacceptable and that we do not think that we should be running around taking different special considerations. Because it is not enough simply to talk about it; we must also, at some point, dare to take advantage of legislation. And that is what the government has said it would like to do in relation to the whole debate on burka and niqab, that is to say the ban on masking. There, of course, legislation is used to say clearly: there is simply something here that we think is unacceptable. So I would call for consideration to be given to the possibility of doing so in other areas. Then I would also like to ask about this foreign labour issue, where it is the Left's view that it should be even easier to bring foreign labour to Denmark. I would like to ask: there are now approx. 250 million employees in the European Union, as I recall. Does the rapporteur not think that is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113510	First of all, I am pleased that the rapporteur mentioned our future ban on masking. We can also mention the ban on insecure begging. The current government has gone very, very far to use the legislation precisely to address some of the concerns we have. So that's where I think we kind of agree on the direction. As far as foreign labour is concerned, of course, the European Union is the primary market for Danish companies that need foreign labour, but we are also dealing, as I mentioned earlier, with Asia, with the United States, with Japan and with Australia. So there are countries where it would make sense for a Danish company to be able to hire one from when it comes to strengthening trade outside the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113601	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113608	Thank you. I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth lets it go a little bit easily by saying that now you don't want to go down in individual points. Of course there can be good reasons for that, but the debate on halal meat is actually quite essential and is not just a single point. It is, of course, a symbol of something that is being introduced over the Danes' heads. For example, the right to opt out of halal food in the cooler is not there, because you cannot see if the food is halal, and there could be a possible solution. That's one thing. The second point is that in the past, the Left has refused to be able to legislate, for example, on gender-separated swimming. It is also a religious speciality to take. So it is quite essential that we sort of start the next chapter instead of wiping it off on municipal autonomy every time we have the debate, as I think the Left does. Could the Left not be willing to go one step further now and get some legislation on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113716	I think it is wrong to use the words to wipe it off on municipal self-government. Local selfgovernment is an integral and crucial part of Danish democracy, and we believe that the closer to citizens, the closer to the local community you can make a decision, the better it is. I have made it very clear that I am not in favour, for example. gender-separated swimming, so that when a municipality or a community can go in and act against it, it is of course better than legislation. It is always better for the decision to be taken close to society than through national legislation. But having said that, for example, we do. with the ban on masking, which also has to deal with the use of burka, shown that we would like to use national legislation now it has not come yet, but when it comes to the cases where we see that what is being done locally is not enough. Originally, we said that we have educational institutions, VUC Lyngby, which go in and make a local ban, and therefore no legislation is necessary. You then see that the problem is bigger than that, and then we use legislation, so I think that we are using legislation to a large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113825	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113827	Of course, it is also perhaps a little wrong to say that it is being wiped off on municipal self-government. I should like to acknowledge that and I did not mean it that way. I myself am pleased with local democracy. But can the rapporteur of the Left not see that it has come out there where the Danes are being deprived of their free choice? For example, when you introduce halal food into a day-care institution, you take away all the parents who do not want it, the free choice, and that is in very, very many day-care institutions. It is not just a single municipality, so it has to be said that it has reached a place where we have to legislate on it, if we want to put the parallel societies to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113907	As I said before, I fully agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur when it comes to maintaining Danish values, even when it comes to food culture, but in the first place, to the extent that decisions can be taken locally and taken in the local day-care institution, it is better. I think that should be the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113932	We move on to the question line, we still have six questioners on the list. The next one is sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113939	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. After all, there was a lot in the Prime Minister's New Year speech about ghettos and that it is a problem when people with other ethnic backgrounds clash together, so I would like to ask about the Left's position on Muslim free schools, because there is also talk about the fact that we have a group that chooses the school with ethnic Danish pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112113958	I think our position is very clear. In other words, we have seen a marked tightening up of the regulation of Muslim free schools, because we have seen several examples of a worrying development in which some schools have had jihad material lying around etc. And precisely for this reason we have tightened up supervision, and the reinforced supervision has already resulted in one or more schools having been deprived of their subsidies. We think this is positive, but it does not mean that we want to suspect all Muslim free schools. But there is a real problem in some schools, which is precisely why we have tightened the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114041	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen will have to remember another time to press in if you want another short remark. But go ahead with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114046	Yeah, I'll do that. That's fine, but I'm just not quite sure whether the rapporteur thought it was a problem that you went to a Muslim free school or that it was only a problem if there was jihad material. But we in the Social Democratic Party think that it is a problem that one lumps oneself together, away from ethnic Danish pupils. So I would like to ask if the rapporteur shares the concern that Danish society should be excluded, because ethnic Danish pupils do not go to Muslim free schools.Why is it then that the Left in the Finance Act chooses to grant several millions to, among others. Muslim free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114116	So let me be clear about what I said before that we should not suspect everyone. I don't think we should suspect all Muslim free schools for having jihad material lying around that wouldn't be fair, but there are some who obviously have had it. At the same time, we believe that Denmark should be a society where there is room for example. religious free schools. I myself have attended two Catholic institutions, even though I am not a Catholic. That freedom we think should be there, and that is why it is a very, very difficult balancing process. Because I agree that it is a problem if certain sections of the population, people of certain religious beliefs, are lumped together in parallel societies, but at the same time we have freedom of religion. And that is the balance that we in the Left are trying to maintain by tightening up supervision, which has worked against some Muslim free schools, without at the same time having to go in and shut down all religious schools such as some of the Catholic schools I have attended.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114215	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114218	Thank you. I'd like to stay in the field of education. Today we have seen seven high schools in Aarhus presenting a model of how they can spread the high school students in Aarhus in a way that will enable all colleges in Aarhus to take their share of integration responsibility. And that has been sensible, because there have been two high schools in Aarhus, which have taken the vast majority with non-western background. My question to the Left, of course, is: how can it be that the government will not intervene in the fact that in several Danish cities we see a tendency for pupils to divide according to their ethnic background? So, do we not share the view that it is best when we are living together in society that we also go to school together?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114304	Thank you. Now, sir. Mattias Tesfaye and I, less than a week ago, I believe, were in a very long consultation where we discussed exactly this issue and in which both the Minister for Integration and the Minister for Education participated. So I think it is very clear what the views of the government and the Left are. Now I saw the rapporteur's kick-in at News this morning, and I really would like to pay tribute to that. Because I think it is fine to go out locally and try to solve the problem, as has been done in this case, by the high schools themselves talking and finding a solution. But that the government takes this problem seriously, I think, was very, very clear in the consultation we were in, including the thoughts we are thinking about the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114351	To Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, I have to say that you just have to press the button for a brief comment. But now you don't have to press anymore, because otherwise you'll be pushed out. Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114401	The government has allowed local communities in Denmark to derogate from the existing rules if the rectors can agree, and they can do so in Aarhus. They cannot do that in the western part of Copenhagen, and neither can they in Copenhagen. And that is why we come here from March 1 to see that the students are segregate even more than they did last year. It is true that the rapporteur and I took part in a consultation last week with the Prime Minister's two ministers. They meant two different things, and they also thought so when we had them in consultation a year ago. The disagreement in the government has existed for over a year. One minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, sits and says that she agrees with the Social Democracy, and the other minister, the Minister for Education, says that she disagrees. That disagreement has been there for a year, and while the disagreement continues and they do not get any clarification about it, we end up having to distribute the students again this year even more after their ethnic origins. That's not gonna work. Can the government not agree with itself and make sure that the announcement is amended by 1 March so that we can distribute the pupils in a way where one goes to school together?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114505	What I heard very clearly in that consultation was that the issue is being taken very, very seriously, and it makes me aware of that of all the parties involved in that consultation, including the governing parties. But exactly what action the Minister of Education intends to take, I cannot say right now from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114525	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114528	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is also a receipt from this House for the things we have done together, DF and Left, with regard to restrictions on foreigners. What I would like to ask is all of this which is returning in terms of labour, particularly highly trained labour. I think that the starting point must be • and I would like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees with me that the people we have in Denmark who can take a job must also take a job and that this must be the first priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114616	Of course, the first priority is for Danes to get to work, but we are living, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, in an increasingly globalised world with increasing trade with the whole world, not only with the EU, but with the whole globe. Therefore, there is also a need for people from abroad, even sometimes outside the EU, who can contribute to trade with Japan, trade with China, which can contribute in a way where you may not just have a Dane who knows the language, who has local knowledge and knows the companies around the world. I therefore believe that we must be open to trading with the rest of the world too, also by foreign workers coming to Denmark to contribute to the labour market, provided, of course, that they also contribute to society and accept our societies and our values as long as they stay in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114715	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114717	Yeah, yeah, but it's already happening today. You can go back to the Middle Ages and see for a long time that there has been exchange in Europe, both in terms of trade and everything else. It is, of course, such a basic premise that I believe we agree with. But where I get a little worried sometimes is that I do not rule out the possibility of needing foreign labour. But this mantra that all future growth must be achieved through immigration, I therefore have doubts about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114759	I have to say that Mr. Christian Langballe (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. After all, we are not saying that all future growth depends on immigration. We don't say that at all. We say that there are Danish companies whose partial growth can be hampered because you cannot attract the necessary labour. It may be that they have thousands of talented Danes working for them, but it might also be that a handful of extras who could help strengthen trade with what I know, China or the United States, would strengthen the individual company.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114834	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114837	Thank you. The number matters. That is what the Prime Minister said here in his reply and in his chronicle, and I agree with him. This means both whether we can succeed in integration and ensure cohesion or cohesion, as I think we call it in the Left. At the same time, you could turn on the news the other day, or was it the day before yesterday? Torsten Schack Pedersen, who is probably the Left's business rapporteur, says that in the Left it is believed that as long as refugees are in work, they should have extended their residence permit in this country. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left here today quite factually and in concrete terms: will he do so, Mr President? Torsten Schack Pedersen requests that there will be fewer or more refugees from, for example. Syria or Somalia, which will be granted a permanent residence permit and therefore the right to permanent residence in Denmark if it is implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112114934-2	I simply have to correct the rapporteur there. I saw the same story myself, and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen did not say that all refugees in Denmark who have a job should stay. He just didn't say that. That's as far as it goes. Then, in the same feature, the same thing came out, as the Prime Minister has said, in other words, that the starting point is that refugees who are here for a temporary stay should return home as soon as conditions permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115001	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115002	I almost have to go back and see that, because fortunately that clip is on TV 2 PLAY, and I can say that I am not the only one who has had the experience of it, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen said, following on from a specific case, which is probably from his home constituency, that as long as you have a job, as long as you are self-employed and in employment, you must have the opportunity to extend your residence permit. But I was also able to understand from the article that neither Mr. Marcus Knuth, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen or the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen said, so I'll ask Mr. Marcus Knuth here today: Can we hear how Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen proposes that you should be given the opportunity to extend your residence permit on the grounds that you are in employment? Is it completely out of the question that it is not and never will be the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115050	Well, I can't talk to Mr. Knox now, can I? Torsten Schack Pedersen's name, but as I remember from the article, what he was talking about was the actual amount system. After all, we want the system to be modified so that we can attract foreign labour more easily, and that is what we are talking about. I am aware that no mention was made of the fact that all refugees who have a job in Denmark should stay. I can't imagine it's been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115113	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115116	Now I just found the article that Mrs Astrid Krag refers to, and it says at least that Torsten Schack Pedersen disagrees with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on how the threshold should be, in relation to when you can stay and work in Denmark, and it was very interesting to know how far you should go down. I've seen the finance minister talk about 100,000 kroner. down to the amount limit. What exactly is the Left's objective here? We have 100,000 Danes available... and now I get the answer from back here from the Prime Minister, and I am sorry, but I am still putting it to the rapporteur. There are 100,000 people available around Denmark, some who, when we last had a boom, got into a job, got into the work rhythm, got some work experience that later allowed them to stay and get a decent life and a good job. Shouldn't we rather try to get them in than necessarily take a lot of people from Asia and Africa to Denmark? And what exactly is the position of the Left in relation to this limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115222	I think it's a little ironic that sir. Kaare Dybvad of the Social Democratic Party talks about an amount scheme which may have made it harder for some companies to attract labour, while the rapporteur's own chairman says that Danish companies are hungry for skilled labour. Then why couldn't you attract someone from abroad? I just don't understand. So, we have companies and we are in a boom where the Danish economy is doing so well that we need foreign labour, or at least it will be appreciated by some Danish companies. So why not, among other things? Is it true that the system of amounts is already at a very, very high level and is it being reduced? There's a lot of fail safes implanted. It is ensured, for example, that this is not something that leads to pro forma recruitment or expected bonuses, etc. The level of the amount system, even if we reduce it, is therefore not something that will outperform the entire Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115333	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115334	I am sorry if the rapporteur cannot separate it from having qualified workers in such a way as to ensure that all young people receive training and that some of those on the labour market receive an education, from opening up to say that in any case, as Torsten Schack Pedersen has been laid out just to have a job, and that, as the Minister of Finance has been allocated, the threshold currently in place should be reduced by DKK 100.000. The two things are very different, and I would therefore recommend that the rapporteur go back and look at the discussion that took place at the end of the 1960s on exactly the same issue as this one, which opened the limit for labour and then found out that when the jobs were no longer there, and when you had an economic crisis, some other problems came out of it. I had actually understood that these were challenges for our society in terms of integration, which the Left took very seriously, but now I understand that when it comes to a boom, just as in 1967 and 1968, we can still not take it seriously. Or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115421	You have to understand that if you come here with a work permit, it is not the same as a permanent residence permit. Therefore, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. I come here at the age of 25 from the United States and now I give you an example and you have already been trained, so the Danish society has not had to pay for the entire education and for everything in terms of the child's institution etc. Then you contribute to Danish society for a few years, and if you go back home, Danish society will not have to pay for a pension either. It is a huge gain for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115453	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115455	Thank you. It's an exciting discussion about the amount scheme. Very recently, we found that this highly specialised workforce, which the level of the amount system should reflect, is night work in a slaughterhouse. Does the rapporteur really think that this is the type of job that we absolutely cannot find any Danes to fill and that we therefore have a need to even reduce the amount system, so that day work in slaughterhouses is also something to which labour should be imported? Apparently, the rapporteur's optics does not have a Danish customer market for that, and we cannot find a Dane who could handle it. We have a debate on value here today. What value lies behind it from the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115541-2	As I said before, a number of measures have been incorporated into the system of amounts, which means that it cannot be used, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. I do not know whether the employment in question will go through, but at least I know that some companies are being heard saying: we have foreigners who do a job because we have not been able to recruit Danish labour. And if it is the case that you cannot recruit Danish labour, then I think it is fine that you should be able to recruit a foreigner. As I said before, and this makes it very clear: the fact that you get the opportunity to work in Denmark is not the same as a permanent residence permit. This means that the day you haven't worked anymore isn't the same as just staying in Denmark for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115629	Sir. Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115630	I would like the Left to be a little more specific in relation to this, since they believe that we should go further down, that we should go down to DKK 100,000. less than the amount limit is today. This means, for example, that day work in a slaughterhouse is something that would enable a foreigner to get above the new limit that he would like to have in the Left. Do you really think in the Left that there is no unskilled labour in Denmark that could instead take that job and that we therefore need to be able to attract unskilled labour to this kind of trade from abroad and that the need is so great that we have to lower the threshold to attract foreigners to, for example, the United Kingdom? This class?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115715	I think it is very clear from the media that we have companies that rely on foreign labour, including foreign labour, which do not necessarily come from the European Union, and here we have to have a flexibility where we say: we have to have the number of asylum seekers as low as possible. Refugees must work while they are in Denmark and contribute so that when they return to their homeland they can rebuild it. At the same time, however, we must also have room for Danish companies to attract foreign labour, not for the purpose of staying here for the rest of their lives, but for them to contribute to the Danish company as long as their contract of employment runs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115759	Mrs Karen J. Klint for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115802	I would like to continue with the very factual question raised by Mrs Astrid Krag: when people are here on a temporary basis and are at work, and if you want it to be extended by possibly lowering the threshold, how many times can this happen? And how long can you be here for a temporary stay, even if you actually meet the rules for permanent stay as they are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115829	I have to say that I am a little unclear on the question of how many times you can have it repeated. If you are here on a temporary basis as a refugee, i.e. if you have what is known as 7.3 and you are a refugee of war, and if there is peace in your home country, then the purpose of working in Denmark is • and I think the Prime Minister made this very clear in his New Year's speech • clearly to contribute to Danish society, train and strengthen his competences, so that you can return to your home country and help rebuild it as soon as the conditions are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115902	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115904	But that will mean that people can be here so long that they actually meet the rules of permanent residence. What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115917	It is actually very simple: if you meet the requirements for permanent stay, then you meet the requirements for permanent stay. However, for people who are here on temporary refugee status, the starting point is that when there is peace in their country of origin, they have to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115934	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short comments, so we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112115946	Thank you. The other day I received an email from Malaika, and Malaika wrote to me that she is 13 years old, and she wrote that she cares very much about politics, that she was born in Denmark, and that her parents, who originally came from Pakistan, also had work and had learned Danish. She also wrote to me that she felt 100%. Danish, even if her parents do not originally come from Denmark. I was very fond of Malaika's email, and I didn't just do that because she wrote that she really liked me, but I did that because she was so committed and articulate and only 13 years old. I have to say that at the same time I got a little sad, and I did, because that email is also an expression of something I meet very often, namely that young people who were born in Denmark, but who have parents who come from another country, feel that they have to defend that they are Danish. She writes: My parents have a job and my parents speak Danish. It was like important for her to make some arguments about what her parents did to prove it and could say about themselves: I'm really Danish, I'm 100 percent. English. I must say that I actually find it sad that she feels compelled to defend her Danishness in such a way that she cannot be allowed to take her Danishness for granted, like her classmates who have parents or grandparents who were born in Denmark. I must say that I also believe that, apart from making life harder for Malaika and others in her situation, this is an exceptionally bad starting point for integration, and in this way it will be a problem for all of us. So, there is the suspicion that I actually think is going to fill more and more of young people who were born here in Denmark, but who are still being asked the question: Are you now Danish? This suspicion I fear is very much helping to push some young people away from our community and thus make integration considerably more difficult. I would therefore like to say that I am actually very pleased that the Prime Minister, in his opening speech, but also today, makes it clear in the platform that whatever religion you have and whatever skin color you have, it is not what determines whether you are Danish. The theme of today's debate, which has been convened by the Danish People's Party, is that Danish values are somehow threatened in some way. And one can say that the concept of Danish values is very fluffy, and I also think that we may put a little different things into it, but one of the things that is very important to me about Denmark is equality between men and women, and fortunately that is not something that we can patent and fortunately for it. Fortunately, there are also all sorts of other places in the world, all sorts of people other than people born in Denmark, who fight for and regard it as such a fundamental value that men and women are equal. We have legislation that ensures that gender-based discrimination is not allowed, that we are not in a position to achieve it at all, and that there are all kinds of things we could do better, including on that front, but we have legislation. Is there any indication that there is a majority on the way to adopting legislation in Denmark which means that equality should not be part of our legislation? No. It could also be said that the division of power is something we regard as a foundation in Denmark. Is there any indication that a majority is on the way to abolishing it? No. Freedom of religion is a crucial foundation in Denmark. Is there any indication that a majority is on the way to abolishing it? No. So one can say on such an overall level: Here is not an experience that basic Danish values are threatened. Does this mean that there are no problems? No, I'm afraid not. And one of the major problems I think we have in Danish society is that there are young people for whom the freedom most of us take for granted, namely freedom for example. to choose your own girlfriend, the freedom to have a boyfriend at all, the freedom to go out in the evening, the freedom to participate in parties on the education, the freedom to choose your spouse, the freedom to choose to be a boyfriend with the same sex, if you want to, is not a matter of course. Unfortunately, it exists in Denmark that there are young people in some ethnic minority environments for whom the freedom that we so much value is not a matter of course. It is a huge problem and it is a problem that I believe we can do much more about than we are doing today. For years, for example. The crisis centres, which work with some of the young people who leave the family because they have defied the family, defied the negative social control, said: we lack housing for integration, we lack the resources to pick up these young people when they have finished living at the shelter, because it is a very difficult break to take with everything you come from. Some support is needed so that you do not end up in negative social control. We could listen more to the professionals we could listen more to the people who work with these young people. And I also think that Christiansborg and although I know that Christiansborg are of course many things, I still think it could be better to listen more to those people who are actually trying to take the lead in the freedom struggle. I mean, if we, for example... Takes Khaterah Parwani from the Exit Circle, which is one of the women who are really fighting a freedom struggle in relation to the ethnic minority environments, then I think we have seen some very unreasonable attacks by leading members of the parliament, from Mr. Marcus Knuth, from Mr. Naser Khader and from Mr. Martin Henriksen, who accuses her and them of all the atrocities in the world. This means that not only do they have to fight reactionary forces in the areas where they have grown up, they also have to fight reactionary forces here from Christiansborg. I think we should do the opposite. I believe that we must support and support the forces leading the fight for freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120619	Sir. Martin Henriksen has asked for the first brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120621	Thank you. I think that when you are called a reactionary by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, you should almost take it as a compliment. I think Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen actually said some sensible things. It may well be that I am a little beside myself today when I say something like that, but in fact there was something about having to look after some of the women who need some extra seats, secured places, halfway houses, etc., and that is what we think is quite reasonable from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, but they should not then just lie with the Exit Circle. Actually, that was something else I wanted to ask you. It was this discussion about religious speciality in schools, where many consideration is given to resident Muslims. There is, of course, a risk that I have at least heard it from various quarters, and I myself sometimes feel that as a Dane one can feel alienated in one's own country because of the influx that has occurred and because there are many places in institutions and schools etc. some consideration is given to children and people with Muslim backgrounds. Does Enhedslisten believe that it is healthy for the integration process that there are Danes who simply feel alienated in their own country because of the particular concerns that are being taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120727	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has pointed out to me that there is in fact also a proposal for adoption, and my suggestion is that we should just let Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen reply to Mr Schmidt-Nielsen. Martin Henriksen's brief remarks, and then we can read the proposal for adoption afterwards. So please answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120744	Thank you. I'd like to start by saying to Mr. Martin Henriksen, who finds it a little unpleasant that there was some of what I said, as Mr. Martin Henriksen did not actually disagree entirely with the fact that I have just spent some of my speaking time congratulating the Prime Minister. So it may be a theme today. In fact, I would have liked to have praised Mr. Mattias Tesfaye for some of the important points I think Mr. Mattias Tesfaye had in his speech. However, in particular, I would like to say that, of course, I think it is a problem if there are young people or children who feel that they feel, for example. can't be at a school. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye explained very well on the platform, namely that it is so good to take into account the existence of vegetarians, that there are vegans, that there are people who do not eat pork, and there are allergy sufferers, and what do I know, and therefore there is no reason to force pork meatballs down the throats of people, for what purpose should be there? I have to say that I find it difficult to see that this kind of special consideration should be a problem. But if there are young people or children who feel that they cannot be at school because they are ethnically Danish, then that is a problem, and therefore it is also crucial that we get much more scattered residential areas and a much more mixed school composition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120909	Sir. Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120910	[Sound emission]... spread people out, and that is the strategy, and at the same time you do not do away with the particular concerns that are being taken around the institutions, you just run the risk of spreading the problems. So I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen whether the Enhedslisten recognises that there are Danes in this society who feel alienated in their own country who feel that it is unpleasant when they send their children to institutions or schools where too many consideration is given to people coming from other cultures. Does Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen recognise that this is the case? And if Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen acknowledges this, is it not I was just saying that one of the greatest challenges we have in terms of being able to make integration work with the people who are now going to be and are not going to be sent back to their homeland is that there are Danes who feel alienated in their own country? That must be a huge frustration. Does Enhedslisten recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112120959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121001	If you find yourself in a situation where there is no room for Danish culture, it is, moreover, a very broad and wide concept, but nevertheless yes, then there is a problem. But the fact that in a kindergarten or in a crèche or in a elementary school you say that food is also being served where there is no pork in it, I certainly see no problem in it. I'll tell you what. I also see no problem in going down to the Snapsting here, and then you can choose to eat salad and not take the pork roast if you're a vegetarian. In fact, I think that the debate on integration is far too important for us to reduce it to the fact that it is about putting meatballs down people's throats. Let us, however, discuss some of what is important instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121051	Then there is a proposal for adoption which Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen will be able to read out before we continue the series of brief remarks. I can say as a service information that the next one, with brief comments, is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121103	On behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy is to be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and there is no parallel society. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. • V 23).
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121137	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. The next brief remark is, as I have said, to Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121145	Thank you. The rapporteur began his speech with a fine story about an approach that the rapporteur had received from someone who felt like a Dane. Unfortunately, this is not the case for anyone who has come here or who has even been born here. If you sat there last Friday, like so many other Danes, and saw X Factor, you were introduced to a young woman who steps in front of the judges and is asked: Where do you come from? And instead of saying, like all the other participants, that she comes from Ribe, or she comes from Esbjerg, or she comes from Aalborg, she says she comes from Lebanon, I think it was. She then says that she was born and raised in Denmark, but she comes from Lebanon. Does it not give food for thought to the rapporteur that some people have simply been born and raised in this country and still do not believe to come from Denmark? They still believe that they belong to another people, even though they may never have been outside the country and the most southern they have been, perhaps Lalandia on Lolland. So, does it not give food for thought that there are some people in this country who are so busy renouncing Danish society that even if they were born and raised in this country, they do not want to confess to being from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121314	Now I missed X Factor on Friday, but of course I can go in and see it online, so I'm ready for tonight. I have to say that I actually often meet the opposite, namely young people who were born in Denmark and who are so dark in the skin and who have parents who come from another country who say: Oh, it is so tiresome always to be asked where I come from. Then they say they come from Vejle. No, no, where did you really come from? So that means that it is now clearly my experience that it is quite difficult like being recognized as a Dane if you do not look like someone like me. I think this is a major problem, that is, the fact that there are so many young people who have been born here and have their lives here and, as the MP quite rightly says, may never have been outside Denmark, yet all the time they are being suspicious. Are you really Danish now? they are asked. At the same time, I would like to say that I see no problem in feeling both Danish and Swedish or both Danish and Pakistani, and I am therefore very, very pleased that we have fortunately adopted legislation to ensure that you can have dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121427	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121429	That is not what I asked, but it is good that many come to the rapporteur. I can say that during the many years I lived in an immigrant ghetto in Denmark, I didn't exactly have the impression that there were very many who went out and flaunted with a keel. This was not the case in those places where very many immigrants lived. What I asked was: Does it not give food for thought that there are citizens in this country who were born and raised in the country but will not acknowledge to be from Denmark, but say that they come from a country that they have certainly never set foot in? Does it not provide food for thought in relation to the fact that there is a large population in this country that does not want to recognize the country in which they live? Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121510	It is difficult for me to discuss a young woman in X Factor, whom I have not seen, but if what the rapporteur wants to know is whether it is a problem if young people who are born in Denmark and live here have their whole lives here, yet do not feel Danish. Well, I think it's a big problem, and I definitely think there are young people who are experiencing it. In fact, I am afraid that this problem is getting bigger and bigger, among other things. When we experience a sir... Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party is on TV in the debate on TV 2 and points to a young man Philip Yazdani was his name from Langkjær Gymnasium and says: I don't know if you are Danish. I have to say that I am helping to significantly increase the problem raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121600	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121602	I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen something. She said earlier that it was a good idea for Denmark to grant asylum to all Syrian refugees, just as it was in Sweden when Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister. What does Enhedslisten think about the number of refugees in Denmark? Do we take too many, or should we take a little more? Is that comfortable? And does the rapporteur still believe that all Syrian refugees should be granted permanent residence permits, as in Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121636	I do not know why the rapporteur is talking about permanent residence permits. But in relation to Syrian refugees we had at some point in Denmark because we are following the UN refugee convention, fortunately for that, and I am aware that the Danish People's Party is the only party that does not think we should do so. And that means that in Denmark, as in most other countries, we said that if you come from Syria as a refugee, the conditions in that country are so dangerous that we grant you asylum. And I think that makes sense. The rapporteur then asks, and it is a classic whether the number matters and what the number should be. To the first part, i.e. whether the number matters, I would say that the number obviously matters. Well, it is clear that it will be harder to carry out the integration task, the more people there will be, among other things. because it requires reception sites and local networks to receive and integrate etc. The integration task isn't just about snapping your fingers, and then it's solved. It can be difficult, not least if you come from a very different culture than the Danish one, and if you come with many traumas in your luggage. There was another part of the question, but I can return to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121752	Now Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen saw the button pressed for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121755	I'm not trying to fall into the classic. Actually, I didn't ask about the number. I asked whether Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen thinks that we are taking our responsibility in Denmark. So, Enhedslisten thinks that we take too many, or does it match our size and our country's resources? Should we take more, or is it reasonably acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121820	I believe that at some point there was a calculation by the Commission which was that if the refugees who come to Europe were distributed fairly fairly fairly among the countries based on the size of the countries and how many refugees had already arrived and how many resources the countries have, etc., Denmark was actually reasonable from that point of view, i.e. with the number of spontaneous asylum seekers received by Denmark. And to me there is no doubt that it would be worth so much to strive for us to be better at carrying out the task. I think it is disastrous, for example, that Denmark has unfortunately decided, with the support of the Socialists, no longer to accept quota refugees. Since 1979, we have taken around 500 quota refugees a year and I think it is so sad that we have resigned from that scheme. As far as I am concerned, that number could be increased to, for example. One thousand, just as a large number of other countries have done in connection with this refugee crisis that the world is facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121922	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112121927	Thank you. Now we heard before the Socialists say that they regretted many of the relaxations they had made during the last reign, when the Radical Left announced that there had been 45 relaxations. I almost assume that Enhedslisten has helped to make them. I'd say that without checking up on all 45. That is why I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten regrets all the relaxations that were made under the last Red Government, or whether Enhedslisten intends to hold on to them and perhaps make even more relaxations to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122006	I certainly believe that this was a sensible direction in the area of foreigners. I think that is obvious to everyone. I very much disagree with Mrs Inger Løjberg, I very much disagree with the government and I very much disagree with the Danish People's Party in the foreign policy being pursued. For example: Unfortunately, the present government has again decided, with the support of the Socialists, that refugees who come to Denmark, or some of them, those who receive what is called temporary protection status, will have to wait three years for their children and their spouse to be safe through family reunification. I strongly disagree with that decision. I think we should do what we can to unite families that have been divided by war, and not the opposite. New legislation has also been adopted which means that young people born in Denmark, who wish to have permanent residence, are no longer rewarded for taking courses. On the contrary, they must go out and take unskilled work. I think that is so foolish if you want to have good integration. So if your question is: If I agree with the government and the Danish People's Party in their foreign policy, the answer is hardly surprising: No. Well, yeah, I disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122117	We should remember that we do not use direct indictments in the Folketing. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122123	Just to put the cards on the table, I am of course interested in what foreign policy we can expect if the unfortunate thing for Denmark should happen that we got a red government and a red majority another time. There we have just heard the Socialists say that they want to pursue a very strict immigration policy. I am of course interested in what the parliamentary basis says, what the Enhedslisten says. And there I understand Enhedslisten in that way that Enhedslisten will continue to work for more refugee families to be united in Denmark, which means, for example, a higher number of refugees to Denmark. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122201	It is perfectly understood that Enhedslisten will work to implement as much of Enhedslisten's policy as possible. We do so, both when it comes to protecting the environment, when it comes to treating people who are ill in Denmark better, and we do so when it comes to prioritising our care for the elderly and our schools rather than lowering taxes at the top, as I know the Conservative People's Party stands for. We are, of course, also working for this in the field of foreigners. Yes, in the field of foreigners, Enhedslisten is also working to implement his policy. Is it gonna be uphill? Yes, it probably does, because the Social Democrats and Enhedslisten have a lot of disagreements. So I think we are going to fight from tue to tue, if I may say so, but of course we will fight. And some of the areas that are important to us are, in fact, family reunification, it is quota refugees, it is rewarding young people for education and getting more reasonable rules for citizenship, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122257	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122301	Thank you. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen says to Mr. Martin Henriksen in reply to his question about halal food in day care institutions, that no one should have stuffed meatballs down his throat and that there should be a free choice. I am in complete agreement with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen on this, but the problem is that what is happening in today's institutions is that, firstly, the pigmeat is removed and, secondly, everything that is being served should be halal food, which means that it will be the children of the Danes who are forced on something and put halal food down their throats. The rapporteur considers that:
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122336	I have an awful lot of confidence in people who live in Denmark, and I have an awful lot of confidence that local people in the kindergarten where you have your children can find a way to decide what food policy should be with them. I have to say that I actually think it would be foolish to make legislation on this from Christiansborg. For me personally, it would not be a requirement that, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. was not allowed to be halal food in a day-care institution. In fact, I believe that most of the chickens we buy are halal because of the high level of exports to a large number of Arab countries. I believe that such decisions can be made locally and that they are best taken locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122426	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122430	Thank you. I am well aware that you cannot buy a chicken that is not halal in Denmark, it is really incredibly sad. Does this mean that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen has so much confidence in people in today's institutions that if they decided to force-feed the children with pork, that would also be okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122450	Yes, I believe that you can decide locally what food is to be served, and if there was a daycare centre where they decided that meat should be served there every day, then it might be that as a vegetarian you would not choose that institution, or that you would say that you would bring your own lunch, but yes, I believe that decisions can be taken locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122512	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122515	Thank you very much. I would like to continue a little on the same subject. As I said, everyone agrees when the rapporteur says that there must of course be freedom of choice, as we have in the Snapsting, that goes without saying. But when it comes to the question, as Mr. Martin Henriksen also mentioned that there are areas where the Danish values are challenged. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And this is, of course, a problem which, in certain areas, particularly in the ghettos, has come from excessive immigration, and that is certainly the immigration which this government has done a great deal to reduce, at least in relation to the number of asylum seekers. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a challenge in certain areas of Danish society that Danish values are under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122612	I have to say that I think there are bigger problems, even in this area, than just the Christmas tree, although I think it was foolish that one did not just get a Christmas tree in that housing association. The question will then be whether we should legislate here on the part of Christiansborg that there should be Christmas trees in all housing associations, and then the answer will be no, and I hope that the Left will agree with me on that. That doesn't change the fact that I thought it was a strange decision. I have to say, however, that I think there are other issues that are more important, for example. how we support young people in minority environments who are fighting for their freedom to choose boyfriend, spouse, etc., and I would actually like more resources to be spent discussing this at Christiansborg and also to be allocated more financial resources to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122703	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122704	I connected the problem of the fact that there are areas where Danish values are under pressure with the fact that the influx has been so great, and that is precisely the asylum influx that we have done right, very much to bring down completely, down to the lowest number of asylum seekers for 9 years. Can the Enhedslisten see the purpose and importance of keeping the number of asylum seekers low, so that we do not see this accumulation, so that we do not see the formation of ghettos where the Danish values are alienated?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122738	It is quite true that the Left has made some decisions, among others. in order to ensure that fewer asylum seekers are looking towards Denmark, and I also think they have had an impact I don't actually think they would have had that 5-7 years ago, but I think they have had that, among other things. with regard to family reunification. I believe that the main reason why there have been significantly fewer asylum seekers and refugees in Denmark is the Turkey Agreement, that the Balkan route has been closed and perhaps also the Swedish carrier responsibility, but I also believe that some of the decisions taken in Denmark have had an impact. This is true, for example. This means that if you receive temporary protection status, you will have to wait 3 years to have your children and your spouse reunited. There we may have different moral boundaries, or we may not talk about morals. I do not think it is fair to place families in that situation, and I understand that the Left border goes on three years, and then the Left does not seem to think that we should separate children and parents from each other for a long time, otherwise we could have said that it would be 10 years or forever, and then it could scare away even more refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122837	Sir. Christian Langballe, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122838	Thank you. In a remark, the rapporteur says that the integration debate is too important to deal with whether to put meatballs down the throat. Has anyone actually proposed this? I have not heard at any time here in the Danish Parliament that anyone has made themselves spokesmen or spokesmen for the forced feeding of pork by children in kindergarten. What we are discussing is the whole halal complex, that is, whether it is religious concepts of purity that must dictate what food you get in kindergarten, or whether there is actually a choice where we say that you get the food that is general to Danish culture. I would also like to say that I am in favour of the fact that Muslim children should not be forced to eat something they do not like. Well, that's certain. But religious ideas should not dictate the general policy of food in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112122952	As I heard one of the authors from the Danish People's Party, it was perceived by the Danish People's Party as a problem that says: Yes, you can also serve some food in a kindergarten that is not pork. Then you can say: I don't think that's a problem, so that you take such a consideration, just as I don't think it's a problem, that you take into account vegetarians or people who have allergies or whatever it might be. No, I do not actually understand what the problem is in saying that we have a kindergarten or a primary school, and we must serve some good food, and of course we do not insist that people who would rather have chicken or lamb or beef cannot have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123040	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123042	Yes, but it is the fundamental part that is being cut off again and that is not being answered. What I was asking was whether religious ideas should dictate what policy should be in terms of food. I would also like to say that what was said by my party colleague was about halal food, i.e. the fact that, firstly, this phenomenon is called halal food, and secondly, that Danish companies are also contributing, among other things. to Saudi Arabia and the religious propaganda emanating from it by paying halal tax. I think that in itself is a problem which needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123120	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Langballe, I think it's gonna be a mess. So there may be people who say for religious reasons: we do not want to eat pork. I therefore believe that we should be free to do so in Denmark, including in day-care institutions. I have friends who, for political reasons, do not eat pork because they think that pigs are being treated so badly in production. Should we then say in kindergarten that if the reason you want your child to have chicken or lamb or vegetarian food is religious, then we will not serve any other food, but if it is for animal welfare reasons, would we like to serve some other food? As I said, I certainly do not think it is a problem for a day care institution to say: yes, if you do not want to eat pork, you may not eat pork.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123209	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123210	Thank you. Politics is about weighing up different considerations against each other, and we have so different positions that make that balance end up with different results. After all, we agree with Enhedslisten that one of the considerations to be taken into account by the Danish Parliament is that people who need protection should be protected and that people should also be given the opportunity at any given time to be family members with their families or to obtain permanent residence permits or citizenship. And we then have rules on how and how to achieve it. But does Enhedslisten also recognise that there is another consideration that is about how many people come here, and the ability of Danish society to absorb the people who come to Danish society? In other words, the Enhedslisten recognizes that in the foreign policy debate we also have to deal with the fact that we have to keep the number of asylum seekers down, not the only thing we have to deal with, but one of the things we have to weigh against the other concerns in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123310	The short answer is: Yes. I recognise that, and I think I said that to a socialist who asks earlier that the number means something to how well we can integrate. It is clear that when a great many people arrive at the same time, it becomes more difficult for local communities to carry out the integration task and so on. And then you have to say, what do we do in that situation? My answers to how we can achieve a fairer distribution of people who have a need for protection are some other than those of social democracy. I believe that Denmark should take the lead in Europe and in the world in working towards a fairer distribution. I believe that we should take the lead in massive support for the neighbourhoods in trying to ensure that people do not escape if I can say that they can get their help locally. I would also like to say that I do not believe that Denmark is so challenged that it would be catastrophic and totally destructive for our society that, for example, it would be so challenging. 500 quota refugees came or a little more refugees came, because that would certainly be the case if the policy of the Enhedslisten were implemented. So I recognize the weight that is being put up, but I put the weights somewhere else or a little further to the other side than the questioner does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123442	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123443	Thank you. So, the reason I am asking is also that in 2017, we have issued a residence permit to 10,000 people from non-western countries. Some of them are refugees, but there are actually even more family members. 10,000 people are equivalent in an average municipality if I can just quickly count to 100 people in a year to be found accommodation for, receive classes to, a football team where they can play left back, a practicing doctor • everything that needs to live in a proper society. All Danish average municipalities can stand to that. An average municipality, for example, is: Næstved or Holstebro or Gladsaxe. That's how it is at that level. The only question is: can they also last the next year and next year again when they have already done so for decades? There is the conclusion of the Social Democrats that we believe that too many residence permits have been printed for too many years. For a number of years now, therefore, we must do everything we can to keep the number of new residence permits down. With the present policy of foreigners, which is probably the most strict one that Denmark has been pursuing, at least since 1983, it means that further political tightening, which is the opposite of what Enhedslisten believes, must be done. So is Enhedslisten not at all worried that if Enhedslisten got 90 seats in the Danish Parliament, the burdens on the Danish municipalities and on Danish society would be far too great?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123609	In that calculation, if I may say so, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, I think. Mattias Tesfaye forgets to tell that there is a reason why in the last few years, and not least in 2015, there came a lot of refugees, namely that we in the world are in a situation where very many people are on the run. And I have to say that I think it makes sense that, in a situation where extraordinary numbers of people are forced to flee, there are also more people coming to Denmark. Then our work and our responsibility to carry out that task will be increased. I do not believe that Denmark is collapsing under refugee pressure. But I believe that we could be much better at integrating, including those who came 30-40 years ago and who, incidentally, for a large part did not come as refugees at all, but came as labour from, among others. We could be much better at carrying out that integration task. We could also be better at sharing the task between us, because it is in some specific residential areas that the task is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123721	Sir. Jan Erik Messmann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123723	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen mentioned the story of 13-year-old Malaika, which is really wonderful, and that is probably how we all have stories about something that is positive and good. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned that when he was a boy, it was 1%. of the children born, born of non-western immigrants, and now it is about 20%. We know that the figure for children born of ethnic Danish couples is approx. 1.79 children per year couples and that the number of children born of couples of other ethnic ancestry 3.04 child per. couples. This means that we can clearly see that the number is increasing. In Brøndby is over 50%. by other ethnic origins. Does Enhedslisten not think that it is bad for Danish values and for Denmark, if in 40 years we have more Muslims in Denmark than Christians, and if the majority of those sitting in this Chamber are of Muslim origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123849	I do not think that in 40 years' time Denmark will be in a situation where more Muslims live than Christians. Then I would say that it is as if the MP has completely misunderstood my story, because my story about 13-year-old Malaika was precisely that she is Danish. She was born in Denmark. Her life is in Denmark. Her everyday life is in Denmark. She is Danish, even though her parents come from another country. What the MP is now talking about in the Chamber is whether it is not awful that so many people from other countries will then have children. But those kids are Danish. As far as I am concerned, it is in itself a huge problem that the young people and children born in Denmark of parents coming from another country are constantly experiencing a question mark over their Danishness, because then we can be sure to push them away from the Danish community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123954	Sir. Jan Erik Messmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112123955	No, it is clear that she feels Danish, and it is also nice that there are many who feel Danish and integrate into Danish society. The Danish national anthem is called "There is a lovely country" and there is the rapporteur must have a limit on how many can come here. Then I would like to ask the last question: the rapporteur ended his speech by saying that we in the Danish People's Party came with all the atrocities of the world. What does the rapporteur really mean by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124036	The atrocities went on the accusations made by Mr. Martin Henriksen, sir. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Naser Khader has exposed Khaterah Parwani and Sherin Khankan from what is called the Exit Circle. They have indeed been accused of the atrocities of the world by three named members of parliament, despite the fact that the two women, if any, are fighting for liberation, for freedom in ethnic minorities, despite the fact that those women have devoted their lives to fighting, among others. against the negative social control. It was appalling for a woman like Khaterah Parwani, who by the way is not religious and who lives with a man she is not married to, to experience being attacked by members of the parliament in that way. In fact, I thought that was outrageous and completely reckless.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124134	The last brief remark is from Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124135	Thank you for that and thank you for the good discussion, which may be a little jumping, but which I think is going to be good in depth. After all, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has answered a series of questions from the Socialist rapporteurs following this debate, which the rapporteur calls a classic, that is to say the debate on the number. In the last answer, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says that the Social Democrats forget the reason why the Enhedslisten believes that we should accept some more now, namely that extraordinary numbers of people are on the run. In the sense that if you look back, you can see that in the last 10 years there has been an increase of 40%. When we look into the crystal ball and see what is of armed conflicts around the world, and see what is of poverty and great economic inequality, and see what we are facing from upcoming climate crises, I just have to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether it is her and her party's opinion that we will see a sharp decline in the number of people on the run if we look 5, 10 years out in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124244	Mrs Astrid Krag talks about people who are on the run, which is thus recognised by the UN as refugees, but I also heard it as if Mrs Astrid Krag is talking about migrants. And that is what I hear because Mrs Astrid Krag mentions people who are moving because of drought, flooding or poverty. I think it is extremely important in this debate that we keep our tongues in our mouths and make a sharp distinction between refugees and migrants. Because these are different strategies that need to be pursued. In addition, an independent inquiry debate could be held on this subject, including: the question of migrants. There is a task of repatriation in relation to migrants who are difficult and who require agreements with their countries of origin and who also require us to be even better at creating opportunities in their countries of origin and creating opportunities for those migrants who are sent back. We cannot continue to respect the UN Convention on Refugees and ensure that the people who are refugees are protected if we do not make the distinction between poverty migrants and refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124356	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124358	It is true that a distinction must be made. Fortunately, that distinction is already taking place today in our asylum procedure. You are not even allowed to get a closer assessment of your case if it is evidently groundless that you should have asylum because you are not on the run because of a war, a conflict. I totally agree with that. However, does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not recognise that in the practical world we are facing a huge problem, because the very task of repatriation, which the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is talking about, is not going to take place almost at a time when we are getting those people who have no real residence basis out of Denmark and out of the European Union again? If the Enhedslisten's rapporteur recognises this, it brings me back to my first question. It was in the logic of Enhedslisten's rapporteur earlier that we just now. is under extraordinary pressure and that it means something to the number and that we must therefore be willing to take more right now. In other words, does the logic not fall apart if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agrees with me that we simply do not succeed in sending out those people who are here and who do not have a legitimate basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124501	The situation in Syria, the situation with the Islamic State and with Assad meant that extraordinary numbers of people were fleeing. It affected almost the whole world, it particularly affected the countries around Syria, that is to say Jordan, Turkey, etc., who, after all, have taken up the vast majority of the task of protecting the people who were fleeing. In addition, however, the question is whether it is not true that many people are fleeing the world and that there are also many people who have to flee, not in the sense of the UN, if I may say so, but who have to move away from their homes because of climate change and poverty, etc. The answer is yes. And this requires us to act locally, and that is why I am sorry that, for example, we have to act locally. chooses to reduce development aid. I think that Denmark should take the lead in the world and in Europe and say that we need to invest massively in protection in the neighbourhood and that we can actually have security and stability, and in future prospects. A great many of those who came to Denmark from Syria had first been to Jordan, but fled because there were no proper health options, not proper school opportunities, no future for their children. So yes, the fact that for one reason or another many people are forced to flee requires action, including by Denmark, but also to a very great extent international. And this requires massive support for the areas that are the main tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124627	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112124637	Thank you. It is always interesting to have value-policy discussions in this Chamber. Today, the discussion is about the government's value policy in relation to the challenges arising from immigration. We often hear in the debate that the fundamental Danish values are under pressure, and it is also on the basis that we now have this debate in the Folketing. The fight for value is there; the open free democracies and liberal freedoms, with everything they bring about by freedom for citizens, are being challenged by totalitarian tendencies that will anything but freedom for the individual. And it is true that in some parts of society there are extremist trends that challenge the way we live with each other and there are people who want the opposite of free, open and democratic societies. Anti-democratic movements, social control, extremism and radicalisation are all examples of diverse darkened forces seeking to challenge our open and free society. We should not let that pass. We must stand firm on our own values, both in words and in deeds; we must insist that liberal freedoms such as freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression are indispensable and something we mean and something we stand firm on. We do not defend those rights by denying certain groups the same rights, because they are universal values. We defend them by defending the right to say what one thinks, even if one disagrees, the right to move freely and the right to exercise one's faith. We want freedom, liberalism, the absence of abuse, human equality and human equality and self-reliance, and no individual, group or authority kids should do so. Sometimes the debate hears that immigration alone is the problem, but I believe that the Liberal Alliance believes that it is more nuanced than that. For me and for the Liberal Alliance, it is important that we remember the essentials of the value debate. It is not the many, many foreigners who live their lives in peace and happiness, respect basic Danish values, and who get up and go to work every day to support themselves and their family, who challenge the Danish values at all. It is, on the other hand, the minority that is entrenched in parallel societies and basically wants to oppose the ideals of freedom that we have built for generations. As a liberal human being, it is my basic view that every human being has a fundamental right to seek a better life through hard work and hard work, and therefore I and the Liberal Alliance say that you are welcome in Denmark if you can and will work if you stay within some basic guidelines. If, on the other hand, you have come to Denmark to support others, feed yourself through crime or do not respect fundamental values of freedom, then we say no. We must demand that people who will be in Denmark respect fundamental Danish values. Those values are unshakable, and if you want to live and live in Denmark, you have to live by them. The Western democracies, which are based on freedom and popular rule, are, in my opinion, some of the world's best societies. They are based on values such as freedom and freedom, and these are the pillars which have been formed by Danish society, and they must continue to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125025	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125029	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am interested in the rapporteur's position on the issue of ghetto education, in other words high schools, where the proportion of young people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish is very, very high and where we can see that Danish pupils are going away. So there's something that suggests that there's an evil spiral on these high schools where ethnic young people are looking for and where ethnic Danish young people are going away. It can, of course, present some integration challenges, at least the challenge that there is no majority culture to integrate into if the proportion of ethnic pupils is high. Does the rapporteur consider this to be a problem in high schools and a more general problem of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125118	I regard this as an absolute problem. I do so and also a problem for which a solution needs to be found. Then there is the opposite consideration when looking at solutions, namely that we must also safeguard the right to decide for ourselves which high school you want to go to. In some way, the balance between the two considerations, that is to say, the solution to the problem which Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is the right leader, and we need to find a sensible solution to the question of free secondary school elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125149	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125151	I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that we are dealing here with a problem and that it has an impact on what kind of student composition is in the individual high school. I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity, if there are concrete proposals for solutions, to be able to use his speaking time to say how the Liberal Alliance sees that it is possible to solve the problem that I find we agree on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125214	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen many times for the opportunity. Now we are fortunate enough that in my party I have the Minister of Education, whom I know is deeply buried in order to find a solution to this problem, which precisely weighs up the two concrete opposing considerations that I indicated in my first answer. And I have no more concrete answer to that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125232	No one else has asked for short comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125256	The debate that the Danish People's Party has initiated today is really exciting. After all, we have had it sometimes in this Chamber, and I am also in favour of having this debate, because I think it is exciting to raise us a little above the more everyday legislative proposals, one might say. Then I would like to start by congratulating the Prime Minister, although I can now see that unfortunately he is not here. But I actually thought it was a good speech again. He makes it clear again that it is not a matter of skin colour or faith, but is about whether you choose Denmark for, as he puts it. He also emphasizes that, when you are here, you must of course be able to work and get into society, and that is something that we also attach great importance to. Then I would also like to commend Christian Langballe. It's not often I do it. But in the first half of the speech some words were used, which I thought were exciting, among other things. society is a covenant between the living, the dead and the unborn. I fully agree with that and that is a beautiful sentence, I think. I would like to add that this applies equally to all the people who live in Denmark, regardless of where you come from. The people who live in Denmark at all times contribute to the creation of society, which is why it will be both the living but also the dead who have lived here, and then the future generations, the unborn, who help to create our society. The preface to today's debate is that immigration forces the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and correct them. That is what the question text says, and it is on the basis that the Danish People's Party would like to have the debate on value, that is to say, that we are forced to correct and that the Danes are forced to do something. The other side of the coin is, of course, for me: what are the values that we have to uphold in relation to the treatment of refugees and Danes with a different ethnic origin than Danish, so how is it that we uphold those values in relation to how we include each other, so how do we include all of us? After all, Denmark is a democracy and it is a democracy based on freedom. And freedom is essential to me in our society. That is the freedom to say what you mean and to mean what you actually mean. Freedom is also to mean something other than what I am now saying from the platform. Freedom is also to believe what you want. And the freedom is to be who you are. It is also the freedom to create a good life. And freedom is also to be able to work and have the opportunity to train and become part of meaningful communities. But if I may then take the debate on value a little beyond what has been discussed here today, I would say that the debate on value for me is also about how we ensure that our children and grandchildren have the opportunity to live a life of freedom in the future, and one could go as far as to say: in order to live a life at all. And I think that is also important to all of us in this Chamber. This actually leads me a step further, to something that we have not discussed today, and that is that I think we need to take very seriously the climate disaster that threatens us, because it also threatens our values, our freedom and our democracy, and because we are a generation that really has the opportunity to do something about that disaster. And as for us and them, they could also be the generations that come after us. What choices or rather non-elections are we making to ensure that there is also one of them, namely those coming after us? And empathy towards future generations is a matter of value policy, which we also need to take seriously. Then why do I allow myself to go into this debate? Well, of course, it is because it also affects how many people of other ethnic origin we get and have in Denmark, because forward-looking climate change will be part of what really gets people on the run. Already today, we have over 23 million people who have been thrown into flight on the basis of climate change. And that is why I really want to include that discussion in today's debate, in other words because it will be part of what will affect us here in Denmark, even in future generations, if we do not take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125831	There are three requests for short comments. The first is sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125838	Thanks for the speech. It is quite legitimate that the rapporteur would like to bring up the climate. We can then discuss it but I think that in this debate it will be enough to get a little too far. Of course, value debate is about how best to ensure Danish society in the future too, and there are all kinds of grounds and conditions that can be included in this. It has never been about skin color in relation to the things we are discussing here, but cultural, historical and religious background. That is what shapes man in his attitude to the outside world. Now Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen did not want to answer, but does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that religious concepts of purity dictate what food is served in Danish kindergartens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112125951	I think my short answer is no. One of the things I really wonder about hasn't been up at all yet is that we now have more and more vegetarians in Denmark. After all, it is no human right to have meat served, and it does not really matter what kind of meat it is. I think it is absolutely crucial here that we leave it up to the local day care institutions, when they serve food, to organise a weekly plan. I really do not think that the discussion on pigmeat is essential. Where you choose to say that you must serve pork, the children must then take a lunch with them, either because they do not want to eat pork for religious reasons or because they are vegetarians or have another belief that they do not want to eat pork. I really do not think that this is something we should take a position on in this Parliament. I think it is going well out there to take a position on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130102	It's not a question of what we're having dinner tonight. Should it be vegetables or beef or pork? I really think it is somewhat disappointing in relation to the fundamental discussion, which I think is actually important, namely whether it is beneficial that part of the Sharia law and these religious clean ideas are allowed to dictate what food you eat in kindergarten. Is it important? Yeah, I think it is. I think it's very important because it's not just this isolated thing. That is also a matter of principle. How far do we have to go to adapt to these Sharia ideas? So I think I miss an answer from the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130154	Yeah, but I hardly know how to answer better. For me, it is not a value that I think I have the right to eat meat... have the right to eat lamb or have the right to eat pork. It's not to show disrespect, but for me, it's not part of a value debate. The debate on values in this discussion would be to say to me: should we take the democratic decision locally? In other words, should we put local democracy out of business because in here we think we should dictate what to eat in a daycare centre in Horsens? That would be value policy, you might say, for me. I really think it is up to the locals to discuss it, and if you then find out locally that you want pork in your day care centre, then pork must be served, or you can say that you do not want to serve meat at all, or that you only want to serve lamb. I do not believe that it is our job as Parliament to take a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130300	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130305	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall save the rapporteur the opportunity to ask questions about pigmeat, but ask something else instead. I would like to ask how many refugees the alternative means we can take. When I ask, it is because both party chairman Uffe Elbæk has said that Denmark could easily take 10,000 more, and Mrs Josephine Fock herself last year in Altinget has written that we can afford and we have plenty of room to take more. Can we get a hit on the bag? How many are we talking about, as the alternative thinks we can hold more in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130336	I can't put a number on it. I can say, in connection with our own draft budget, that some of what we really want to work on is quota refugees and that the quota system is being extended. What we have set aside money for this year in our draft budget is, among other things, what we have proposed. to take 2 000 quota refugees. In other words, we must remember that we have to walk on two legs, and I do not hear any parties in here saying that we will not help in the neighbourhood. We need to help in the neighbourhood precisely so that we really ensure that people can stay in their communities. That is also why I am addressing the climate crisis. However, I do not see any tactics to seriously help in neighbouring areas, which is why we also have increased development aid and increased climate aid for developing countries. However, our draft budget also needs to be made much more ambitious. In fact, I think we should have a very serious discussion here in the Folketing about what it is that needs to be done when we say that help should be provided in the neighbourhoods. Because it takes a lot of money. Then, in our optics, there must be a completely different focus on how to get the quota system up and how to get the United Nations to stand and how to make the European Union seriously deal with the distribution of refugees. Then we'll take the lead in Denmark and show that we can afford to and I'll still think that we've got to take more refugees. However, I would rather try to prevent any people from having to flee at all, and that is both from war and from abuse, but it is also from the climate, and that is why I took up the climate debate. In other words, there are already 23 million fleeing from the climate, and we need to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130522	I very much agree with both the climate, that is to say what the rapporteur says about climate refugees, and that there will probably be more in the future if we are not careful, and it is also important to emphasise this with foreign aid. But I just think that it might be nice to get figures on whether it could not present some challenges for Denmark. In other words, as Uffe Elbæk has said, does the Alternative still believe that we can easily take 10,000 more on top of the thousands we have already taken very recently there are also some coming from family reunification without causing any problems? Because I really think it is relevant whether we are discussing 500 quota refugees or whether we can easily take 10,000. After all, these are different figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130602	Thank you. I agree, of course, that figures are relevant, but we also have to say that there has now been a policy which one can agree with or disagree with, which has made the figure extremely limited. So I'd rather focus on discussing what it's like to avoid people having to escape. Then I would also like to discuss the matter, and that is also where the water separates... how we treat these people. What opportunities do we give those people who in fact, no matter what systems we build, end up standing on Denmark's doorstep and saying: I am a fugitive? I am of the opinion that, if they are refugees, they must of course have refugee status and that they must also have the opportunity to enter the labour market, they must have the opportunity to learn Danish, and they must have the opportunity to be integrated into the community. So that is why I really think it is such a rather stiff discussion. 'Cause if I'm gonna say 5,000, I'm gonna say 10,000, you want me to say 50,000? Of course the number matters, but how do we really ensure that people do not have to flee? It is not, of course, a Turkey agreement, but it is about how we are seriously helping in the neighbourhood, both in terms of war and democracy building, and that we are seriously avoiding a climate disaster that is sending even more people to flee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130722	The rapporteur was not supposed to be alarmed. The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130728	Thank you. Mrs Josephine Fock raised this issue with values, and I would like to ask how we in Denmark can maintain some fundamental common values, such as that men and women are equally worth, democracy and the rule of law, and that we are a community of law when we continue to accept immigration, which means that there are a great many people coming from outside, who in some cases look at how a society should be organized quite differently. It can, for example, be done. be in relation to Sharia law, as Mr. Christian Langballe also mentioned. But when there are a lot of people and a lot of people in this country who look at these basic common ground rules quite differently, does it not put under pressure some of the things we do agree on, namely that men and women are equally worthwhile, democracy and the rule of the people? Does the alternative agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130823	I agree, of course, that if you come to Denmark, you have to take Denmark in. In fact, that was also the Prime Minister's words. I think that for a great many of the people who are fleeing, it is precisely the Danish democracy they want to be a part of. The questioner formulates it as if it is the majority of people who come to Denmark who do not want to take part in Danish democracy. As I hear the questioner, there is almost also the question that it is the majority of all those of other ethnic origin who live in Denmark who do not want it. This is not my experience, and I do not think there is any basis for saying that we have a problem of this magnitude. We have a problem with certain segments, and that is where I would like to talk about socially vulnerable residential areas and make some serious efforts to ensure that everyone can become a part of the community and does not have to think that, for example. gang life is more attractive. We must, of course, work intensively on this, because none of us wants to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112130945	Thank you for your answer. I can, of course, misunderstand Mrs Josephine Fock, that may happen, but I understand that the alternative means or recognises that the fact that we have some problems with parallel societies and ghettos, and that there are some in Danish society who do not share some of these fundamental common values that we all have somewhere, that is to say, we regard men and women as equally worthwhile, and we support democracy, the rule of law and so on. That is not to say that all those who come will not be in favour of these things now or in the long term, but at least some of them basically believe that society must be set up quite differently. If that is understood correctly, I would like to ask whether the alternative does not see the point that we are then working to reduce the immigration that is here, because everything else equally creates these challenges, even if it does not include everyone. Because that then gives you time, space and space to work with those who are in the country and who may not be in favour of democracy and who may be active in different criminal environments or whatever it may be. Then we can discuss whether some of them should be deported or not deported. However, it provides more time, space and space for us to work with those who are in the country, if that is what will limit the influx of those who come from outside. Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a point to be made by the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131109	I certainly do not know how to respond, because I believe that we have room to integrate more people. I would actually have asked a question about something that has actually been completely absent, but then I came from it again. So, some of what we have not discussed today is: what demands does it make on me as a person when I meet a person of ethnic origin other than Danish who may have just come here? So what is it that can be demanded of me? In fact, I believe that I can be asked to welcome you properly. I also think the Danes are very, very good at this. I think the volunteers are amazing. So on the subject of whether there are any limits and such things, I would say: we may not want the same thing, but for me it is about those who live here and those who come here, we have to give the best opportunities, because I believe that this is the best form of integration. I do not think that people should be stigmatised and put down in the benefits of integration, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131220	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131224	Is it a value to Mrs Josephine Fock and to the alternative that you have the right to a free choice, that you are free to choose, that you want it there, but you don't want it there? Is that a value to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131242	Well, that depends on what it is. Now I do not know whether we are going to go back into the pork debate, but I am coming, for example. to consider whether there should be a free choice of health care on all parameters. In other words, we have set up a framework in our society, and sometimes we do things together, and everyone has to live up to that, and sometimes we say: there must be free choice on all shelves. So it's hard to answer that question clearly. As a starting point, I think that the individual should be able to decide and, indeed, have the freedom to choose if it is a choice that does not necessarily harm others, that is, with regard to other people. That would be my overall answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131327	So when you have chosen to serve only halal food in very many day care centres, you are taking away Danish parents from the free choice to choose on behalf of their children. This is without regard to what the Danish parents would like to choose for their children. Does Mrs Josephine Fock think that it is really a free choice and that it is reasonable to force something like this down on Danish parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131352	But where it has been chosen, it is a local democracy, which is, after all, a parental board. So it is our democracy that works. I will leave it up to the local day care institutions in the way they are now screwed up to decide on it. I also replied earlier to a question that I simply do not think is something we should decide in this House. Again, I would say that I do not think it is a human right to eat all the meat you want. In the alternative, we are in favour of restricting meat consumption in general, because we know it is the largest CO2 so I think we should think much more about what we are serving to children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131437	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131440	I understood earlier, at Mrs Josephine Fock, that she would rather talk about something else when it was asked how many refugees the alternative would have to come to Denmark. I would now like to point out that we would like an answer to how many refugees the alternative would have to come to Denmark. You cannot simply say that you would rather talk about something quite different, about how to resolve the refugee crisis. One has to be able to answer what the policy of the alternative is. How many refugees are going to enter Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131510	Well, I can't put a number on it, like sir. Nor can Rasmus Jarlov say that there should be only zero, because we have an obligation to welcome the people who stand at our border and who have the right to refugee status. Then what I am saying is that, in the alternative, we believe that we can accept more than we do today. We can afford that, and that is why we have in our draft budget, among other things. It is proposed that 2 000 quota beneficiaries should also be taken in order to signal that we think the quota system is a good system. I would rather discuss how many quota refugees we might then think we could afford to take and how we ensure an effort in the neighbourhood that seriously battles much more than what we are doing today and which means that we might be able to limit some of the flows of refugees. That is something we all really agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131605	I understand that Mrs Fock would rather talk about something else, but I would like an answer to the question: how many refugees should we welcome in Denmark today in the situation we are in? We can put a number on it. We have said 5,000 from Conservatives. What's the alternative saying? Is it potentially infinite? Or is there a limit to how many we can accept in Denmark? One cannot simply say that one would rather talk about something else when I ask for answers to how many refugees we can welcome in Denmark in the situation we have today. You have to be able to say a number. How many do we have room for, without causing more problems than the alternative will do? It is very reasonable to get answers to something that is so central in Danish politics. How many refugees should we accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131652	It's not like I'm not gonna answer, but I don't have a number. I cannot put a figure on it, because it is also a question of how we are so on an ongoing basis for integration. How's it look? How's it going? And there I have to say that, with regard to the refugees who have come here for the last three years, I think that they have packages, among other things. The Igu and the whole support for the Tripartite Agreement, to which the Alternative has been a party, actually made 36 per cent. of them are at work. That means we're doing it much better now than we did back in time. If you look at the wider, yes, the figure is lower compared to the average number in work. No, of course we can't accept the entire population of the world, and that's why I think it's kind of... I can't put a figure on. I can just say that we can certainly take more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131750	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131752	That is to keep the debate on the number a little tight, because now Mrs Josephine Fock came with the actual number, that is to say 2 000 quota refugees. My party is also in favour of a new asylum system, which is based more on quotas than on spontaneous refugees: so my question is such a bit of a factual one: the 2 000 quota refugees indicated in the Alternative's Financial Bill, regardless of how many spontaneous refugees are knocking at the door?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131823-2	Yes, it is at first sight, because we have that position, and the Social Democrats have also heard that so far I have heard from the Social Democrats that we have to live up to some conventions. And that means, of course, that those who are at the border seeking refugee status must accept if they have the right to have refugee status. That is why I would say "and it is not to fail to reply that we would much, much rather focus. In other words, we would really like to be able to turn it all into quota refugees, but it also requires an international agreement. And that is where we think that Denmark should take the lead, and that is why I am very, very sorry that the Social Democrats helped to vote in favour of the proposal that abolishes the fact that we are receiving quota refugees. For that is the way forward in the international community, we believe. In Denmark, we cannot solve this whole refugee crisis as a country, nor the refugee crisis on climate refugees, which is already there. However, the quota system is one of the solutions to this and, indeed, in our proposal, it is independent of the spontaneous refugees on the Danish border today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112131935	We agree, of course, that if the quota system can be extended, it should replace some of the other. We have just arrived at another result, that is, that it is the total sum of citizens who come to Denmark that matters. That is why we have paused the quota system. We have not said no to the quota system. But I understand the answer that the alternative does not seem to say that the total sum of quota refugees and spontaneous refugees means anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132009	That is more of a statement. So we say 'yes' to receiving more quota refugees and we say 'yes' to the spontaneous refugees who stand at Denmark's borders and may come forward. However, we would like to discuss what needs to be done to ensure that there are no refugees at all. If you can hope for it at all, that is, in relation to people having to flee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132033	Thank you very much to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132043	Thank you. When I went down to this debate as a substitute, it's not really my debate, it's our Vice-President's, but she was prevented, so I thought it was actually a tiny bit remarkable that we should now have a debate about the pressure on Danish values without first stating what values we are talking about and what values we think are challenged and which must be defended. But then I listened to the Prime Minister and was in a very good mood because I thought: how nice it is, in essence, that one can disagree very much with a government, wish it set aside, elections now etc. and yet feel fully covered when the Prime Minister stands up on the platform and tells about the Danish values that bind us together: Freedom, rule of the people, freedom, equality, equality, community. These are values that I also believe are fundamental. One might also add: generous, upright, polite • some of the things that stand out on the wall before we enter this Chamber. I am sure that these are also values that the Prime Minister and most of us here in the Danish Parliament support. But even though I can sit and listen to the Prime Minister and think: Well, it is basically a wonderful community of values that we have in Denmark, it is still not values that can be taken for granted. Hal Koch said that democracy is a way of life that must be handed down from generation to generation. But he didn't just think that was something you could take for granted. Democracy does not give itself up. It is, of course, in many ways to restrain oneself, and it is not necessarily the continuation of human nature, of listening to others, of respecting one's opponents, of accepting a defeat, of prioritising proper slow processes instead of quick action and a strong man. These are not values we can take for granted. We can see that, too, if we look out into the world, some of the new democracies will see that. Yes, on paper it may be democracies, but is the way of life also democratic in Poland, Hungary, not to mention Russia and Turkey, which we will probably not call democracies? But the people of Turkey and Russia may themselves think that they are democracies because the majority decides, and then it does not matter that there are all kinds of things that you do not respect, and at least you do not listen to those you disagree with. But we ourselves also have challenges. 20% of the Danes are in favour of the death penalty. Yes, for the voters of the Danish People's Party it is 36%. They may, it is a democracy, but it is not exactly in line with Danish values. Every second student in the eighth and ninth grade believes that freedom of expression does not apply to Muslims, and when I chose to ask a number of questions to the Danish People's Party's rapporteur on e.g. the death penalty and the rights of homosexuals, it is because here too I see some of what I regard as fundamental and Danish being called into question. I could have asked about other values, too. What is Danish People's Party like? to freedom of religion when it is proposed to ban Muslims from performing mosques? What is the Danish People's Party's position on freedom of expression when it proposes banning satellite dishes? Or what about personal freedom when it comes to imposing a curfew for certain sections of the population? Or what about the resident democracy, the local democracy that you are willing to cancel, because there are some who choose not to set up a Christmas tree as they used to? We also have a lot of challenges to deliver these Danish values to ourselves. Our own debate bears witness to this. But yes, there are also problems with our new Danes, everything else would be almost strange. And even though a study a year ago concluded that new dancers actually support democracy as much as the rest of us, we know that there are problems. We can also see that when we dive into the numbers. 22% of the residents of the exposed residential areas believe that women should be covered. That's a problem. 38% We do not think that homosexual relations should be accepted. I do not have the figure, but I am also quite sure that there are little too many, let alone too many of our New Danish parents, who believe that they have the right to interfere in whom their children are to marry. And that's not something we just have to close our eyes to. We must fight for our values, but it is, of course, a balance, because we must fight in a way that does not give up our own values. But when you do not want to ban or force yourself to your values, it is not the same as that you so approve or accept a certain behavior. In other words, when women wear a scarf, then the way to free them is not to prohibit them from wearing a scarf, but it is to challenge them to ask: is that something you have chosen? Why are you doing this? Okay, okay, etc. Oh. This wasn't really all I wanted to talk about. My point is: Danish values are not easy. These are some people you have to fight for at home, those are some we have to fight for in the world. It is certainly not someone we can take for granted. That is why it is miraculous that these are the values that set the agenda for the international legal order. It's a miracle. And who has won? It's us. That a small country like Denmark is in a situation where relations between countries are determined by right and not by power is a miracle. And the fact that the values which then prevail in the international legal order are our own is also a miracle. We can see that even when we follow human rights, which are discussed very much here, and which are sometimes seen as a threat to Denmark. In the last 20 to 30 years, only 15 judgments have been passed against Denmark. It only shows what consistency there is between human rights and conventions and the entire international legal system, about which there is so much criticism, and then our values. Therefore, what worries me most and it will be my last words when we speak Danish values is that the legal order that has guaranteed us the possibility and the right to live by those values and cooperate and trade with other countries on the basis of those values is challenged by those who sow doubts and try to undermine the international legal order, and think that that pressure should come from ourselves. That's what worries me most.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132715	Thank you. That won't be the last word. There are a number of brief comments, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132723	Thank you. As a refugee, you are entitled to temporary protection. But if it is the case that the Refugee Board, with an independent judge for the table end, considers that you can return to your country of origin, but you want to stay in Denmark, does the rapporteur think that you should be allowed to stay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132747	I simply have to report a tiny bit of passport here, because this is an overall debate on value, and now we are talking about specific rules in the field of foreigners. That is not my rapporteur. So I would very much like to ask my rapporteur to take a stand and reply to that. But that is not what we are in the Chamber for today's debate. And I am certainly not saying that because I am afraid of that question, but just because I cannot answer it, because I do not know where the discussions are right now in the circle of foreigners. It is clear that I should be able to answer it if that is what was under discussion and what was on the agenda in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, I am afraid to respond in a way that is not in line with the discussions that are taking place right now in this area and with our own rapporteur. But if the questioner asks a little more generally about values and so on, it may well be that I can try to give a radical answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132836	In other words, the title, which you can read on the screen, refers to the challenges arising from immigration. And there are refugees who also have such a certain share in the total immigration coming to Denmark. But if the rapporteur cannot answer, that is fair enough. I just think it would be interesting to know whether the Radicals believe that if it is assessed by the Refugee Board with an independent judge at the end of the table, you can return home and then be allowed to stay or not. But it is, of course, honest enough if you are a substitute and have no opportunity to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112132908	Well, it doesn't have anything to do with me being a substitute. That's because it's an overall value debate. And it is a very, very specific, concrete issue which is about some discussions that are taking place in another circle. So I don't really think I have to apologize for that. It is just that we have debates in the Danish Parliament on various subjects, and it would not be expected that I would be able to give an answer to specific questions in some area of housing policy which I do not have an earthly chance of being able to answer in earnest when I am not the rapporteur. However, if it is a question of temporary nature, that is, if we talk about temporary nature and refugees in a more general way, where we are not talking about the specific rules, because I am not sitting here negotiating them, then I think it is a good idea that we should return home when we are able to do so. But nothing's black and white. There may be families who have come here and have had children; the children have started school, the adults have come to work, etc. etc. They've started a new life here. The children may actually speak Danish with their parents at home. There are several who believe that parents should speak Danish with their children, even if they have a different mother tongue, to make sure that they become real Danish. That's fair enough. But you can imagine a situation where a family has done all that. And they've made their children Danish, because this is where they are. And then they say, "You're going home." It's a difficult situation. It's a dilemma. And that's why there's nothing black and white here. But it is, of course, an important discussion, even when it becomes concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133042	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133044	I think in some way it was a funny speech... don't get me wrong... because it's always easy to be a democrat and to have a dialogue with everyone you agree with, and then, by the way, brand everyone you disagree with and say it's undemocratic. Democracy means, I suppose, that the majority decides, in short, that is the way it is. Then you can put everything in it and say that it is such a special way of life that thrives in the Radical Left, and that is good enough for me, but democracy is surely that the majority decides, and its main value is that people out there have an influence on the policy being pursued. That is what is crucial. Does this mean that I have to standardise my constituents, the voters who are in favour of the death penalty? No, actually, it doesn't. Because that's what they should be allowed to think. That is just not my position, and if I have to comment on it, they will also know what I think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133155	In fact, I am a little upset about that, i.e. that the Danish People's Party and Mr. Christian Langballe today stands and advocates an incredibly reduced image of democracy, that is to say that the majority decides. It certainly has little to do with culture and values, which is what we are talking about today. If that is the view of democracy, then it is just a mechanism, and then Turkey's democracy is just as good as ours, because there was a majority who chose Erdogan that was, of course, only a bare majority and Russia also has a fantastic democracy because Putin is popular. Then we certainly do not have the same view of democracy. For me, democracy is also respect for the minority. It is also the dialogue, that is to say, that you listen after all and that you do not just bulldoze others. It is also that we accept a defeat, it is also that we sometimes give room to minorities, that we allow people to gather together, that we let those with whom we disagree talk, that we give them a fair process. That is democracy too, and that is where the battle for value is going, and I would just like to call on Mr Seligman to do so. Christian Langballe to take the value struggle, yes, both with new Danes, but surely also with his own voters who have got something with democracy wrong in their throats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133333	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133336	No, this is gonna be a little weird. If I note the simple fact that according to the Greek word from which it comes, which is popular rule, democracy means that the majority decides, then that is the way it is. The fact that we saw here in Scandinavia and in Denmark because of many other things has developed the democracy that suits us is the way it is, and there is indeed a difference between democracies around the world because people have different traditions, different history and different cultural backgrounds. That is what this is all about. I recognise that Denmark is a constitutional state and I recognise the fundamental principles that the rapporteurs have listed. It just doesn't change the fact that democracy means that the majority decides.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133427-2	I accept that too, i.e. that the majority decides. I certainly do. But if that's the fundamentals, it's just funny and a tiny bit weird that that Christmas tree thing in Kokkedal is so full of stuff because a majority decided that there should be no Christmas tree. I also thought it was a stupid decision, and I actually think it was more of a stupid decision than an evil decision. I don't think that board thought well enough, because then, of course, you should have said to each other: it may well be that we are sitting here with a majority of Muslims. I don't even know if there was a majority of Muslims, but there was at least a majority that didn't really care about the Christmas tree, but it may well be that there are 10, 20 or 30 per cent, there are at least many or some, in our residents' association, who are actually looking forward to seeing the Christmas tree and think it should be there, and we respect them. I think that would have been a really democratic decision. I also respect the fact that a majority decided otherwise. But I guess I'd have gone into dialogue. If I had lived out there and was a minority, I would have gone into dialogue with the board of directors and said that it is true that you have the majority, but, comrades, it is not enough in a democracy, you should also let the minority feel that they are part of democracy and that we respect them, especially when it is not something that goes by ourselves, such as. to put a Christmas tree up in a place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133543	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133547	I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech had some strange attacks on the voters of the Danish People's Party: a relatively high proportion of them are in favour of the death penalty and in other ways have some positions against which Mrs Zenia Stampe is opposed. I didn't really understand the point of highlighting it. I hear it as if it is a kind of relativisation of the problems arising from immigration into Denmark and as if Radicals and Mrs Zenia Stampe are trying to say that the problems that come with immigration are not particularly bad, because we also have the voters of the Danish People's Party. What are we supposed to do with that message? What is the purpose of highlighting this? Do radicals not recognise that there are a lot of people with undemocratic attitudes to Denmark because of the immigration pattern that we have in these years and have had in recent decades and that this is causing some problems? Why should the voters of the Danish People's Party be involved in that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133645	It is to emphasise that the values we are talking about today are not someone we can take for granted. These are some that we need to hand over to our own children and to new generations. I acknowledge that I also said in my speech that it is values that must be handed over to new citizens who come to Denmark who have not brought them in with breast milk or in primary school or wherever they are. I recognize that. That's what I said in my speech. But what I would just like to point out is that those who have called the debate believe only that the threat comes from outside, and that is where I say that the threat also comes from within, because these are not easy values. That's why we have the primary school we have. Then you can make fun of it and say: Uh, they sit in the circle and do group work. But when the Danish primary school is as it is, it is because we have recognised that if we are to pass these difficult values on to our children, we must also do primary school in this way. It really means a lot to a lot of institutions in our society that we know that it does not come about by itself; we must actively do so. It was simply to bring it to the attention of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133755	It is generally bad discussion style that when discussing a problem, one does not take a position on that issue, but then one highlights a completely different problem. We do not know how to deal with immigration, and what problems immigration gives us, that we are beginning to discuss some attitudes among the voters of the Danish People's Party. It doesn't make us wiser what challenges it gives Danish society that some immigrants come to Denmark. It's just to talk about it instead of addressing the specific problem, which is the subject of this question: What challenges do we have in Denmark because of immigration? Why do Radicals not respond to this rather than start talking about something quite different? This reminds me of people on the Internet who, every time there is some problem, highlight the Iraq war or pollution in the Pacific or something that has nothing to do with the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112133851-2	I just have to ask sir. Rasmus Jarlov: Why does Mr. So Rasmus Jarlov didn't tell me about it? Well, that's because sir... Rasmus Jarlov is also more interested in controversy, and can you now catch one on the wrong leg? I actually answered that in my speech. I said that we must challenge them, but what may be the difference between me and at least some others is that some others would like to use coercion. They want to violate our values, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, personal freedom, to make us all look alike. I don't want to, but I want to fight for the values, but I want to fight by talking to these people. When was the last time the Danish People's Party had a talk with these people? After all, there are some parties in this country who are more interested in fighting the value struggle on Berlingske's blog or discussion section than to stand out there where repression takes place, where the values of the U.S. are thriving. I will, because I will fight for those values. I'm not just gonna stand here and have some kind of debate with myself and my friends about some people. I want to move those people. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134005	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134008	The rapporteur for the Radicals is proposing that we should have a debate on value. Over the last few years, I have read a few books about what happens to European societies when immigration comes here, among other things. a French book called "Subjection" which is about the French values, like imploding, and they end up getting a president from the Muslim brotherhood. At home we have a writer named Kaspar Colling Nielsen, who has written a book called "The Spring Day for Europe," a little about the same thing, namely that Denmark does not really acknowledge its values and understands what they are all about and also somehow implodes culturally. That is why I also think it is essential that we have a discussion with each other about what these values really are, our society is based on how we strengthen and support them, and how we can meet the foreign cultures that come here in a confident manner, so that we can meet them in a proper and respectful manner. I myself have an experience of the fact that the institutions of our society that are culturally supported or valuable, could be said to be increasingly abandoned by those who come to our society. There are, for example: a sharp increase in the proportion of children attending Muslim free schools. There are still too many children who grow up in families where Danish is not spoken and who do not go to crèche. That is why we have proposed that all children, from 1 year of age, should go to crèche and that all free schools, where more than 50%. of the children are from non-western homes, do not need state aid. These are our concrete proposals on how we can ensure that those who come here become part of the value-bearing institutions, so that we strengthen the values on which this society is built. What is the Radical Left's position on the Social Democratic proposal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134141	First of all, I think it is important to take the debate with the people it is about. And even if you do not want to force people to behave in a certain way or to resort to bans, you can have an attitude toward it and actively oppose it. I very much agree that one must stand by one's values as a society and that one must challenge those who choose a different path. Even if you are not willing to ban that path, you must challenge them. We should not leave them alone, we should not accept it, but it may be that we should not ban it. Then we'll be asked into the opt-out of these institutions. I just think that the problem is more complex, and that is why I do not think that the easy solution is enough. For why is it that some opt out, for example? elementary school? It may be because they experience that their children actually achieve better results in a private school, and then the opt-out may not be the opt-out of Danish values. Then maybe it's about choosing a school where you believe that your children can achieve better results. I agree that this is a problem, but then the solution is not to go against the schools that actually lift the pupils and in some ways give them better opportunities than they would have had in our institutions. But we need to look at ourselves in the mirror and do something about it, because it is a problem that we are seeking away from our institutions where we are also passing on the values that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134322	Thank you. I heard it as if the Radical Left were not able to support that proposal from the Social Democratic Party immediately at least. A week ago I think I got a call from two young women who go to niqab who wanted to tell the politicians what they think about this burka ban. I had them here at Christiansborg a few days ago to listen to their arguments. I would say that, firstly, it was more cross-border than I had just imagined, to sit with two people who had masked themselves and have a political discussion with them. Secondly, I was convinced that the standard we have in Denmark, that we can see each other, which is an unwritten rule. It is not a written rule in the legislation, but an unwritten rule that they break in a way when they mask themselves. So we have to write down that we don't mask ourselves when we meet in public space. Is it not a norm and a value in Danish society that the Radical Left can support and not only that, but also that we get it written down?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134434	I think it is a very good point that there is a difference between whether something is a norm or whether something is written down. For me, there is no doubt that a burka or a niqab are cross-border. Now I'm in the lucky position that I'm a woman, which means that if I'm alone with those women, they're taking it off. I was shocked when I was in Dubai or somewhere in the emirates and the first time these girls were completely shrouded, but when we were alone with them, they took them off. They said they couldn't count on those men not looking at them sexually. I think that's weird, and it's a long way from the way we're together. I think you should challenge those girls and tell them. We must not just say: we have freedom in Denmark; we must do what we want, and I do not put any question about it. Of course, you have to challenge it and ask: What are you thinking about the men in this society, namely that they can't figure out how to look at you if you don't have all that on, without imagining everything, and how will you have an ordinary and natural conversation with me when I can only see your eyes? We're gonna have that conversation. But I think we need people to go out and have that conversation; that we want each other so much that we want our values so much that we have that conversation with each other. But the fact that you have to start writing something like this down does not seem to me to be very Danish. Thus, a value struggle thrives best when you dare to take it with those who violate your values rather than have to be done on paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134625	Thank you very much to Mrs. Zenia Stampe for her very thorough answer, and welcome to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112134644	I have to say that I have a little difficulty with the term value policy and debate on values, and that is what this question is about primarily because it is such a very fluffy concept to discuss and very unclear what is in it. And it doesn't get any less unclear when you start talking about Danish values. But I understand that this is what the Danish People's Party wants to discuss, and it is on the basis that one would like to have such a very polarised discussion, which one has a tradition of with the Danish People's Party. This was also why in the paper it was to be about something with Islam towards Christianity and Danish values being overrun by Muslim mass immigration etc. After all, this is a debate we have had for several years. It has often been very polarised to the great detriment of the solutions that need to be discussed. So it is actually interesting, I think, that today's debate has actually been quite quiet and focused on solving specific problems. If this could be the start of a new foreign debate, a new debate on integration, then I would very, very welcome it, so that we can get away from the hysterical tone that has marked much of the debate so far. After all, we have to recognise that there are problems with integration. It's going better than many people say, but there are still problems gone in many places. Ghettoisation is a problem, and it is in countries where it has been known for many years, for example, in the United States. It is a problem when you shut yourself up and create cultures that are closed and isolate yourself from the outside world outside the ghetto. It is a problem of social control, where families control young people in particular so much that their opportunities for unfolding are extremely limited in relation to the other sex, whether it be in relation to how they should move outside the home. It is a problem, then, that there is a different view of women's rights in many minority cultures compared to what we know about here in Denmark now. However, as I have said before, these are some points of view which also took place in Denmark in the past. There has been a struggle over the years to accept that women should have rights and this is an important discussion. But we have come a long way, yes, and it is a problem that in some of the minority environments there are some other views on it. It is obvious to us that, of course, the number matters. We have to have that as a starting point for this discussion. But then it is that we should, I think, take it from there and then, instead of having an airy, half-way religious debate, have a debate on concrete solutions, recognise it here as problems similar to other problems that we as politicians have to deal with and deal with, be it social problems, housing problems, environmental problems, you name it. And these are, of course, things that can be resolved if we take a political approach to it. We, as politicians, also have a responsibility to recognise this and then to start doing something. For us, then, it is right that we should have a discussion on how to put an end to ghettoism with the ghettos. There I think the Prime Minister opened a debate which is important. I do not know whether I agree with all the views and all the suggestions that I understand will come from the government, but we will have to look at that then. This is going to be a very important discussion. I welcome it if we can have a major debate on social control, on how we can support those women who, if I may say so, do away with social control in these very closed environments. I think it is an important discussion how we can have children written up for crèches from the outset, so that they are, if I may say so, integrated into Danish society. It is an important discussion how we can better develop primary school so that the young people in primary school can be better distributed. It can be done in different ways. I certainly think it is necessary to look at how the school districts are organized, how to distribute the children in a sensible way, so as not to get, if I may say so, white schools, located right next to brown schools, as I know it from my own area, where you can even see in the home ads that there is advertising that a house is located in a school district belonging to that white school. That is not acceptable. This needs to be looked at and solved to a greater extent. In other words, these are specific social issues that are important and relate to our education policy, our social policy, our labour market policy, etc. This should be the starting point instead of this very, very fluffy discussion, which also comes up on what to eat in the day institutions. That's something you find out out out there. That's the way it is. That's what I'm talking about. This is not something that we should sit here and neither decide nor discuss in the Folketing nor how to arrange things locally. In other words, there is the idea that things which some people make a very, very important matter of principle should be decided from the centre, but which are, in fact, practical things that can be handled locally and should be thanked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135331	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135333	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party, Dansk Folkeparti, Enhedslisten and SF have together raised the limit from 375.000 DKK. to now 417,000 kroner. After all, we have done this in order to protect the unskilled and skilled labour market from the immigration of citizens outside the European Union, and now I understand from today's debate that the Danish People's Party is at least firm on our decision, and that is what we are doing on the part of the Social Democratic Party, and if the SF is doing so, then the majority is in place, and what the Prime Minister is today launching in Berlingske can, of course, be packed away. So I am interested to hear: does the SF also stand firm on the decisions we have taken together in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135415	Well, of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135417	Thank you very much, sir. Holger K. Nielsen for today's efforts. Then we'll go over to mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135441	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate and thank you for a good and exciting debate so far. Immigration to Denmark is going to define Denmark's future, there is no doubt about that. There is hardly anything else that has equal and far-reaching consequences. When the history books are written in 500 years, it will say how the population composition changed in the second half of the 20th century and in the 21st century. It presents a lot of challenges, and central to the challenges, and how big they should be, is of course the size of how many will come to Denmark. Integration policy cannot solve the problems. If we have too many people who have a cultural background that makes it difficult for them to integrate into Danish society, it cannot be solved through integration policy. It can solve a small part of it, but the fundamental and crucial thing is how many people come to this country. It is very important that we get foreign labour to Denmark. Denmark must be one of the richest countries in the world, and this requires us to have labour. There's a lot of trouble around here. On Tuesday, together with the Defence Committee, I visited a number of companies in the metropolitan area which lacked engineers who lack people who know light and sound to develop some of their products. And the same situation is seen in many other places, namely that you simply cannot obtain the qualifications required for Danish companies to take advantage of the opportunities and ideas that they have. So we will simply become poorer if we do not have foreign labour. The art is to ensure that we get the labour we need without permanently changing Denmark's demography. In this respect, I have in fact given a great deal of thought to the Liberals' s slogan that there should be room for those who can and will. That is very positive. It is quite clear that we do not have room for those who cannot or will not. The question is whether we have room for anyone who can and will. I guess that depends on how many people there are. If hundreds of thousands came who could and would, should they all be allowed to settle in Denmark? I don't think that would be appropriate. This may, of course, be a bit of a theoretical discussion, because there are no hundreds of thousands of people knocking on the door at the moment, but I think it is appropriate to reflect on whether we really want a situation where, if only it makes financial profits in the Treasury, we should accept all those who want to come here. We want a calm social development in Denmark without fundamentally changing the composition of the population. So, to sum up, on conservative immigration policy, we are very concerned about limiting immigration to Denmark. We should not accept foreigners from groups that we cannot expect will become a positive contribution to Denmark, and that means that there must be a minimum of uneducated people from the Middle East who will have permanent residence in Denmark. We want fewer of that group. That is why we need to repatriate and help home rather than accept more. It is a group of uneducated people from the Middle East and other areas of conflict which, of course, we would like to help, but it must be done in the neighbourhood, not by moving them to Denmark and putting them on transfer income. In relation to qualified labour, which is demanded by Danish companies, we are much more open to getting them to Denmark. This is simply needed. However, the door has not been opened to hundreds of thousands, and it should preferably be temporary stay. So it was such a brief summary of where we stand in this debate, and of course we are really concerned that we are also constantly cultivating our culture in Denmark, and are aware of what these values are that prevail in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135906	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112135909	Thank you for a fine speech, in which I would like to say that there was a lot on which we agree, and that is a positive starting point. Where we might be able to discuss it we were also discussing it out here in the back is about this whole labor thing. Because, in a large part of the Western world, we have had the idea that growth must come from labour, that is to say, from labour. And that is what I think is a rather dubious strategy, also because it quite rightly means that if you do not have strong legislation to prevent it, there will be wage dumping and all sorts of other things, and that you can maintain very low wages by constantly importing new labour, so to speak. So I would just like to hear such a general reflection on my points.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140011	We are generally quite open to labour, including foreign labour, and, in our view, it does not matter that there is some wage pressure, so that in Denmark we do not pretend that we are isolated from the outside world and that we can raise wages to levels that are too high. We basically think that if there are some people who can come to Denmark and they can provide some services that make us get cheaper products in Denmark, then it is positive. We believe that this must be done on equal and fair terms. There is no point in people coming here, for example. We have problems in the transport sector, for example, where there are foreign drivers who come here and don't do that. Of course we won't tolerate this kind of thing. We will not put up with cheating and tax evasion and all kinds of creative forms of company, trying to circumvent the rules and contributions that we expect other companies to deliver to Danish society. However, as a starting point, we think it is positive if we can make use of foreign labour, which can provide skills and labour required in Denmark. We are not as protectionist as the Danish People's Party, which believes that such things should be kept out of harm's way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140126	The questioner...
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140127	But I just think that, as a nation state, we are now a stamp, that is, a small country, that the starting point must be that the labour we already have is the one we use. That is simply the starting point. I fully recognise that you may need foreign labour and that there are some who are super skilled, but I just think that the starting point must be that it is Danish labour that is being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140210	So I think we should also be allowed to hire foreigners; I have to say that. I don't think it's gonna do us any good to fence it in and say that you should, I don't think we're gonna get richer. It is for the benefit of everyone that we have economic growth in Denmark, especially low-wage groups. Then it has to be said that, in relation to the current situation on the labour market, we are about to exhaust our labour force. There are bottlenecks in many places and in incredibly many industries around, and if, in the situation we are in now, you say no to foreign labour, you simply make Denmark considerably poorer than we could otherwise be. And we don't think that's smart.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140256	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140257	The rapporteur has stressed on several occasions today the need for foreign labour, and I suppose we are relatively agreed that all labour in Denmark has certain rights and certain duties. Therefore, my question is very specific about the agreement that the government has made with the social partners on the egu process for refugees, in other words the future working rights of refugees. Is it with or without the benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140330	In other words, as the governing party, of course, we support the agreement that is almost self-evident. Of course, profit principles can be discussed. I do not think that it should be the case that you are permanently on any conditions other than the rest of the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140356	How does Mr. Rasmus Jarlov saw a fugitive's financial situation if, in the middle of a course or after a course in which he is in temporary residence, he is on the labour market but then becomes unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140409	But then you get the benefits you are entitled to, and if you have not earned unemployment benefits, it is clear that you will not get cash benefits, and then you will end up with cash benefits or some of the other benefits that we have a myriad of in Denmark gradually. I don't know if I'm answering the question, but then it's because I don't quite understand it. Because I really do not think there is much more to say than that the rules are what they are and then you end up with the benefits to which you are entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140435	It would be tempting to have one more question and answer, but the agenda does not allow that. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140443	Thank you very much. In other words, part of this integration or lack of integration is precisely about these parallel societies, and the existence and emergence of parallel societies has a lot to do with the religious peculiarities that are being introduced and which I would actually call misunderstood considerations. Does the rapporteur agree that we need to stop and stop doing those things? It is not because we mean something bad with it, but it is firstly because we have to stand up for our own values, and secondly because we have to remind ourselves that here we live on the terms and the values that we have, and then we can do whatever you want at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140525	I can assure you that I agree very much with that. And since I myself was a member of a municipal council in Copenhagen, I fought a lot to ensure that people, for example, were able to do so. not shutting schools down, because there are Muslim festivals nor in those areas of the city where there may be primary schools where 97%. of the children are Muslims. Because this cements these primary schools as special Muslim schools, thus cementing the parallel societies around them. I think that is very inappropriate, i.e. that we are going for a different calendar, for example, than we are doing in the rest of society. And in this way, I think that we should generally take the responsibility of ensuring that we are part of Danish society rather than cultivating parallel societies around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140616-2	It is gratifying that we agree so far. Then I think that agreement will end. For we in the Danish People's Party are at least ready in here to draw a line in the sand and say that we for example. will have prohibited gender-separated swimming. And then we have this thing about halal food, which I hear repeatedly is up to local parental boards to decide. But since it is such an essential value, why is it that one is not willing to go further?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140650	In other words, it is not our policy yet that we should introduce such a requirement that, for example, we should do something about it. may not halal-slaughter. My starting point will probably also be that consumers will have to pull themselves together and demand it. In other words, if you think it is important that you can have some meat in Denmark that is not halal-slaughtered, you must also be willing to pay the extra that it would cost, at least during a start-up period for the slaughterhouses. If there really is a demand for it from the Danes and consumers, it will also arise. It may sometimes feel a bit like people are coming and telling us in the Folketing that we now have to make a decision that people could really make for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140732	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140734	I was a little disappointed not to be asked questions about numbers when I was on the platform, because I had a question I wanted to ask back. I'll have the opportunity to do that now. Kenya is one of the countries with a great many refugees. There are two very large refugee camps that Kenya is constantly considering announcing closure. And yes, perhaps a slightly more serious argument in Denmark, namely that these camps constitute a terrorist threat to Kenya. What does Mr. Rasmus Jarlov on a situation where Kenya says: Well figures mean something to us? We can't house a million refugees. Now we're going to put a number. It may be 600,000 less than there are in the camps. What do you want, sir? Rasmus Jarlov think about such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140832	I would think Kenya was in its rightful position to do so. Other countries are also allowed to decide how many they think should enter their country. This does not mean that we should then take 600,000 refugees from Kenya, as I believe Mrs Zenia Stampe dreams that we should do. I think it is easier for Kenya to deal with people who come from Uganda, I think they come from, if I don't remember completely wrong, from some of the conflict areas that are down there than it will be for us in Denmark. After all, we are in favour of helping refugees as close as possible to the areas from which they come. And it is probably not in Denmark if there are refugees in Kenya.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112140921	It is certainly not because I dream that the 600,000 will move towards Denmark, but I am a little afraid that the consequence can be if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Danish government or Danish politicians are helping to spread a trend where it is okay to say as a country: there is a limit, we set a figure. I just have to ask, if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also thinks it's okay for Kenya to say 600,000 fewer, where should they go? And what if the countries they are going to say: No, we have met the quota we have set for ourselves? What if all countries said that there is a number and that number is not equal to the number of refugees, what do we do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141006	There are countries around that have set some pretty tough numbers. You can ask Saudi Arabia how many they've taken zero! There are other Middle Eastern countries that do not take anyone at all. And then radicals think that when the others say no, we should take them all, that is our obligation. It just doesn't last. We can't do that as a country. I think it is a country's right to decide how many you take. I think that some countries are behaving deeply unsolidarously because they do not want to help their neighbouring country. Imagine how rude that is. What if Sweden collapsed and we said that we would not accept anyone from Sweden, even though we were the best at helping them and were the best place for them to work? You have a local responsibility. I think you have a responsibility to help around, but the idea that there are a certain number of refugees in the world, and we must then just take them, and that we cannot set a limit on how many we have to take in Denmark, is so naive and devastating to Danish society that it is difficult to understand that you can have that attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141107	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141108	Thank you. In this month I have been a member of a trade union for 20 years, so I am a great trade unionist and a supporter of agreements and minimal wages. But I also know that the collective agreement system presupposes that we have a fairly well-functioning education system, so that the people who enter the labour market are worth the money, roughly speaking, as stated in the agreement. And there we have had a problem with the people who have come to Denmark, i.e. have not grown up in the Danish education system. Many of them do not have the qualifications required to serve what is stated in the agreement, and that is why we have had far too high unemployment figures. That is why I have been very pleased with the tripartite agreement that has been reached and in which a good old-fashioned compromise has been drawn up, which is that we are not establishing a permanent low-wage labour market, but some low-wage steps which refugees and family members can take in return for something else, namely a claim for a 20-week qualifying amu course, an annual wage increase and the right to qualify for unemployment benefit afterwards. It is an agreement, and what I can hear in the public debate is that the Danish People's Party would like to see it abolished. If it disappears, of course the LO says: well, that is all right, but then we will also remove the protocol that the low wages are in. Then they can step in on the minimum wage, and then we'll be back at the starting point. So I think it is quite important that a party such as the Conservatives, which has its roots in the Danish labour market model, should stand firm on that tripartite agreement and not shake hands, because if you remove the right to benefit, you will also remove the entry wage, and then we will be put back in the ludo. So I would like to see a fairly clear statement from the Conservatives that we do not change the tripartite agreement without the social partners in any case backing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141242	I'd like to start by wishing Mr. Mattias Tesfaye congratulations on the 20 years of the trade union movement. I can then tell you, very funny, that I have just celebrated my 20th anniversary in the Conservative People's Party, and by the way I am a member of the Danish Occupation. Then, like the stereotypes, we have in place between Social Democracy and Conservatives and the two sides of the labour market. We are very much in favour of good negotiations between the two sides of industry. That is why I also agree that we cannot just suddenly go in and unilaterally denounce some elements of an agreement made with the social partners. So thank you for the good and relevant considerations. As a starting point, I agree with the view that we cannot just change something in a large agreement that has been reached after very thorough cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141341	Thank you. The rapporteur is the last rapporteur for the governing parties to take the floor, and we have not received any proposal for approval from the governing parties. We usually get that in a question debate. What's causing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141400	We have not tabled a proposal for adoption, and this is because we have not been able to agree on a text. But there has been a good debate, and hopefully we have all learned more from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141417	Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, there are no more brief remarks. Then one of our colleagues has trembled patiently and eagerly around the Chamber looking forward to being allowed to finish. So I would like to welcome the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112141440	Thank you. I would like to sign for a good debate in a peaceful and serious tone on an important subject; a debate which, when you follow the very same debate on other platforms lately so that I myself some television yesterday goes on a little more, what to call it, loudly than it has done here today. But I think it's been really, really good. I don't have much need to retell everything I said for a start. There I tried to present my position and the position of the government, and it is, as such, unchanged in the light of the debate that has taken place here today for many hours. But there is something I am going to take with me from the debate here today. First of all, I might go with me, that I sense that as the years have passed, and I have far more than the 20th anniversary both in my party and, by the way, in the trade union I myself am a member of, there has developed over time a new realism. The fronts are not as sharp as they have been. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen even says completely unruly that the number matters. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye stands in the public domain and regrets a number of relaxations under the former Social Democratic Government. And this is probably an indication that there is an increasing, perhaps even consensus that we are facing a set of challenges here. And, as I said, I think the debate has been good in that it has been nuanced. The nuances are needed, and that is also what I mentioned in my first speech. There is a challenge when we now agree that the number matters. Then there is a challenge to keep the number down, and the government has taken a number of initiatives to that end. We have also, to be honest, hit us a bit because it hasn't been applauded home everywhere. I do not know whether the fact that this number means something, which is now also from the left, can be taken as a kind of delayed support for the austerity we have made. Perhaps it would be nice to clarify it, because it is still, I suppose, left behind that a number of the austerity measures that the government has made have not enjoyed support here in the Things. And then maybe it's a free round to enjoy that they've turned out to have an effect. Because it is the big jumping question that if you roll the things we have done backwards, then the number will rise again. And I can't do that. I actually think, sir. Mattias Tesfaye described it so correctly with this metaphor about the old debt and interest rates, and that it is of no use that we solve some problems with one hand, if they then in fact deteriorate correspondingly or more with something we do with the other hand. So we have to be vigilant about a firm foreign policy, where Denmark does not appear extraordinarily attractive compared to other countries. The government guarantees that. What might happen if the government is no longer a government hovers in the dark, even after today's debate. Then there is the other focus for the government, namely that we cannot roll the story back. In other words, one can be concerned that over generations there has been a rather naive policy in which too many people have resided, but we cannot roll back history and we cannot send people out of the country who have acquired permanent residence or even citizenship. That is why we are faced with a set of challenges linked to parallel societies that have arisen in Denmark, and that is where we need to take a targeted approach. And, of course, I have indicated here that within a very short period of time the government will come up with a comprehensive proposal for this. It will also address some of the issues that have been mentioned today, among others. The whole question of the concentration of bilingual pupils in certain schools, specifically in the field of upper secondary education, where I am very satisfied with the solutions that seem to have been found in the Central Denmark Region today, but where the challenges still stand elsewhere in the country. But this also applies to other forms of institution. This is true in primary school, it is true in our day care institutions etc. We're gonna come up with a playout. Finally, there is the theme which has also been turned here today, that is to say the foreign labour force. And for me, it is important to make it clear once again that we need to maintain our balance here. We cannot have a Denmark that is open to anyone. Nor can we have a Denmark that is just focused on the labour force, because there is also the challenge to things that people must be here when they are not in employment. When they leave the company, they are part of our society in leisure time, and therefore there is a concern to take here too. We need to find some balances. And the government therefore has the basic point of view, and it is by its very nature also my own basic point of view, that the better we are to contain the influx and the better we are to have a fight with parallel societies, the more inclusive there will be in relation to shutting in the skilled and indispensable foreign labour that we need. That's my approach to it. Then there has been a discussion about it with the limits, and yes, we think the government thought it wrong that a majority outside the government raised the limit from DKK 375,000. 400,000 kroner, which in the meantime has turned to 417,000 kroner. But that lift of 25,000 kroner. We thought we were wrong. I would have preferred to have seen a completely different debate with several nuances. People want to know that the party that I represent up to the parliamentary elections had some idea that we might have to work with differentiated limits of money, on the basis of a recognition that there are two considerations. There is a concern to bring in the labour we need. And then it doesn't matter where that labour comes from, because, as I indicated before, people in our society are also people outside working hours. And there is, everything else equal, clear difference between how easy and simple you land on the Danish labour market, whether you are an engineer from New Zealand flying in, or you are an engineer from Somalia. That has to be said quite openly. That's why I'm sorry there was this majority, as such a little on the spinal cord, just made a one-eyed increase in the limit plus, incidentally, adding a lot of bureaucracy afterwards. And I have to say, and it is, of course, at the edge of this value-policy debate, that this is something we are going to discuss. We also intend to discuss this under the auspices of the Disruption Council. It is not a trialogue, but it is a place where the parties are present. Because things are going so well in Denmark at the moment • employment is bouncing, unemployment is falling • there is pressure around, and we have created some bureaucracy here that is at least challenging. That is not only the limit, it is also the fact that it has been said, without exception, that wages must be paid in an account in Denmark. I know this creates very concrete challenges in relation to very specific people who travel in from very specific countries that are very similar to Denmark in their values. It is people who intend to be here for a shorter time and who lose rights at home in connection with pension schemes and other things because they suddenly find it difficult to reimburse their salary because it has to be paid in a Danish rather than for example. an American account. So I just want to say that just as tight I want to be when it comes to the whole of the overall immigration policy and our asylum policy; just as tight a focus I want to have on that temporarily is temporary; and just as hard I want to strike down parallel societies • just as open-minded I therefore insist on being in relation to the part of the immigration policy that is about securing Denmark the resources that will make Denmark richer in the future and secure our prosperity. I think I'll leave it at that. Perhaps just one comment on the subject of decisions. Yes, it is true that the government has not put forward any proposal for adoption. We do not have a particular need to communicate our policy into a few lines either, because people know what we stand for. And we are following up on the tradition that was actually there last year, when we had a completely open debate on these issues, without leading to any real adoption. So it's not an expression that there isn't a line. The government's line is, in fact, well known, and I can see that there are others who are trying to formulate themselves against it and thus in a way in which it has certainly not been possible to bring together the opposition for a common proposal for adoption. Leave it at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142425	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142431	Yes, thank you to the Prime Minister for the final words. What I would just like to mention is that up to Christmas, as we all remember, there was a debate about a paradigm shift in refugee policy, that is, that refugees should return home. I would just like to clarify that and then perhaps also have support for a recital that I have or maybe a nuance; it is of course up to the Prime Minister himself in terms of the fact that I actually think that people who have enjoyed protection in Denmark from strife and war have a duty to return. And I would have liked to have been strong in these negotiations that we are going to enter into. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142530	I fully agree with the aim, and I think it has, one might say, the natural one too if one likes to free oneself from the political space and just so speaks morality and what is experienced naturally. Then you can try to find your way back in yourself and in the example thought that there was a situation in Denmark where you had to flee the country because there was strife. Then I would be happy to find shelter in a country that wanted to secure my shelter, be happy to find shelter in a country that offered me opportunities to improve my skills while I was there and be an active part of society, but I would also think it was quite natural that that country had an expectation that I would go back home when the situation was there. I would also personally feel that it was quite natural that I did so and took on the responsibility for rebuilding my country, preferably more armed than before I left. That's how I see it. That is why I agree with the idea that when you are a fugitive, it is a temporary thing. Then there may be some situations in which the temporary situation becomes permanent, because the war lasts so long that so much has been done that an exception might arise to what should actually be the general rule. That's the way life is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142700	Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142702	Thank you. I'm kind of preoccupied with that ghetto plan that I think is exciting. As I think I have mentioned once today: in Vollsmose, 1 billion have been spent. kr. since the year 2000 on all sorts of strange and impossible projects in trying to integrate the people who live in Vollsmose. The Prime Minister has then launched this with the fact that now we have to tear down, and we have to move some of these people, and we need to change the composition of the residents. But is there more to it? It seems to me that something is missing, because it is not concrete. It is about the culture that is; it is about the people who live inside the buildings. If we don't get something done about culture, we're in the same direction. Then it doesn't matter how it gets out with the concrete. When you hold it up against all the billions of dollars spent in Vollsmose, what do the prime minister and government imagine is new in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142805	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142806	I fully agree that this is about something and much more than concrete. That is also why I have launched an internal work which will now be published within a few weeks and which will be a total dispute with parallel societies. Because we can't just attack this housing policy or social policy or educational policy; we have to attack it with this terrible word • holistic, that is all at once, and much more targeted and focused than we have done before. The government's gonna have an all-out plan for that. The objective of not having ghettos at all and one of the ways to remove parts of them physically is one element. And as far as the rest is concerned, one must arm oneself with patience; the government will publish our paper when we are ready to publish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142903	It may be your business to be patient with something like that, but I'll do my best. I'm gonna follow up on the answer that was to mr. Christian Langballe, that number matters. We are faced with large-scale family reunifications here, and those who come and come back then are migrants and not refugees. Does the Prime Minister agree that this paradigm change must also apply to migrants who are not even refugees and who really have no particular reason to be here, other than having a bad life at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142934	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112142935	I mean, immigrants who have no protection needs shouldn't be here at all. That is also why the award rate has fallen. So, we need to have some clear lines in this debate: if you come to Denmark and have no need for protection, you do not get an asylum status, and if you do not have an asylum status, you do not get a family reunification right either. Then you don't have to be here at all, then you have to be sent out. That is also why, most recently with the financial agreement we have concluded with the questioner's own party, we have allocated additional resources to have repatriation sets in our embassies and to create a repatriation centre. Well, if you don't have a right to be here, you shouldn't be here. And if you don't have the right to be here, you shouldn't have the right to bring your family up here at all. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143029	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143031	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I was pleased to hear that the Prime Minister supports the decision taken in the Central Denmark Region, because it has not been possible for the Regional Council and the high school rectors in Aarhus to get an indication from the Minister of Education. But now the boss has spoken, and that means that the distribution of high school students they want to make in Aarhus is approved, and I am only happy about that. So to the question: it is true that we have raised the limit from 375 000 up to 400 000 kroner. and built an annual adjustment into the scheme, for the annual adjustment was not there before. I mean, it was $375,000. year after year, and thus it was actually hollowed out. So if the Prime Minister agrees that it should be regulated as a matter of course, there is really no reason for us to have this debate; then the Prime Minister can just join the 417 000, because that is what the amount would have been if a regulation had been built in, which probably should have been from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143129	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143131	Well, that's two discussions in one. In my view, it is natural that different limits should be laid down, and this applies both to deductions from the tax system, limit values for when subsidies are granted and everything. Because the political situation has to be where we want the levels to be, right? And when we make decisions, whatever it is about, where the top tax limit should be, or how much money you have to earn to get a work permit or whatever it may be, then the discussion must be about it, and then it would generally be wise for things to develop in line with the prosperity of society. So I have no problem with borders moving with wage developments, but I clearly have a problem with a majority in the shadow of something that was about something quite different, namely refugees who went on motorways, in autumn 2017 saying such a little panic: Now we are just raising the limit from DKK 375,000. $400,000. This applies all the more to the fact that the limit that existed was, of course, one that we agreed with Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Mattias Tesfaye's own government over the four years you were in government and thought it was a fine limit. Well, I have a problem with that. So if we can agree that we are setting it down again to the old level, in return for us to regulate that year by year, then we have made today's compromise in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143247	We have not regulated the border panically because of the fact that there were some on the motorways. We have taken the consequence of the fact that no regulation has been incorporated, as it should have been, into the DKK 375 000. Then we have raised it by 25,000 kroner, because that was about what the amount would have been if a regulation had been incorporated. So today's compromise here should be that the government joins the 417,000 kroner, because they are really nothing more than the consequence of the agreement that was made while Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister, namely DKK 375,000. In addition to a completely normal regulation, which we are doing in all sorts of other places in the Finance Act. So if the Prime Minister is in favour of regulation, it should not be a problem to join the 417,000 kroner. What the Prime Minister is proposing is that we should lower it further. And to that my question will be: how much further is it to be lowered? Is it with the 25,000 kroner? Or the $100,000 the finance minister is talking about, or how much is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143344	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143346	Well, I have to say that there is no majority in favour of discussing this matter with an open mind in this Parliament. That is very, very regrettable. If you look back on what I myself formulated for the 2015 parliamentary elections, for unlike Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's own party goes straight lines from what we say before the elections to what we execute afterwards we raised the debate about whether we really should not have a more nuanced approach to this issue of labour. For these are two cross-cutting considerations. We need an open labour market. And I just want to say that, as government policy works and unemployment falls, employment rises and things are pushing, and as it is difficult to get through tax reform and labour market supply reforms, pressure is being put on to remain open to labour only more. That's one dimension. The second dimension is to look after Denmark, i.e. Denmark's social and cultural cohesion, if you like. And that's why it's not just that if there's a vacant engineering position, we have to find an engineer because that engineer becomes part of our society, even in the many hours you're not at work. That is why we wanted a nuanced debate, which was about whether one could imagine that, to put it bluntly, it was easier to enter the Danish labour market if one came from New Zealand than if one came from Somalia, i.e. that the borders should not be the same. But the Social Democrats have resigned from that debate, and I am sorry about that. But if what is being asked today conceals a sincere interest in looking at this with fresh, new, nuanced eyes, then I would very much welcome it. Because we will have that debate if we are to ensure that the recovery continues to have flying height and length.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143528	A little goodwill for the PM, but normally I wouldn't have allowed a doubling. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143538	Thank you. The theme today is such a mix of Danish values and immigration, and a value on which we fortunately do not have a patent, but which fills a lot in Denmark, is that we think that children have special rights, we take extra care of children, and when children's parents make decisions that we as a society disagree with, we do what we can to protect children. I ask because there are children in the Travel Centre Soulsmark, and as the situation is now, we risk those children spending their entire childhood in the Travel Centre Soulsmark, which is a tough place to be a child. Is there for the PM any upper limit on how long we can let a child live like that? I'm asking because there actually was, for the PM's predecessor, sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who, in recognition of the fact that we cannot allow children to spend their entire childhood in asylum centres, made a form of apartment in connection with the centres where children's families could live, and as the Prime Minister's probably says: Well, the parents can just leave, but now it is the child's best interests that we in Denmark tend to emphasize, even if we disagree with the parents' decision. Is there any limit to how long children can live in such an exit centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143706	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143707	After all, I put from country to country in my concluding remarks by welcoming new realism, and it does not necessarily include all the parliamentary political parties, but we just have to be realistic about this. I understand where you're going with that question, but everything has a consequence. If we create a system where people with children can come to Denmark without actually having a right to protection and sit in an exit position and not cooperate, and where, because they have children, over time they can actually get the right that they do not have, then things are going wrong. Everything has a consequence. That is why I say, as I also said in my New Year's speech, that many of these things take hold of our hearts, but we have to let our heads keep up with everything So if we set out in a way in which the rules we have actually made can be suspended by people not cooperating, putting their arms across or pushing their children in front of them, then we are not meeting the goals we ourselves have. And the government has the goal that we keep down the number of people who come to Denmark, that is, of people who, so to speak, search themselves into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143839	You can do everything possible to scare refugees from coming to Denmark, you can also do everything possible to try to get the people who are in Denmark without a legal stay to leave Denmark again, but I think that we all have limits on how badly we can allow children to do so, to scare the parents out. And what has been the situation in Denmark from 2007 when Anders Fogh Rasmussen changed the rules, and then until today, has not been that the parents could just get a residence permit because they had children, but that they let these families of children live in some homes linked to the centres where the children could have such a slightly more ordinary child life; in the second they can be sent, they are still being sent out, the parents have no access to the labour market etc. and so on, but some special consideration was given to the children. Should I understand the Prime Minister's answer so that for the Prime Minister there is no upper limit to how many years a child can live on, for example. Soul field? So, is it 1 year, is it 2 years, is it 5 years, is it 10 years? How long can we accept that a child lives like this on Danish soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143955	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112143956	Yes, it is really a question that should be asked to parents, because the children we are talking about here are children of parents who should not be here and who should leave. So you had to put the question there. If behind the question lies the question: Does the government have any plans to soften up? Is the answer no? We do not have that for the reasons I gave to a start, namely that we have to pursue a policy that means that we keep the influx to Denmark under control. We have succeeded in doing so. I guess some 14,000, 15,000, 16,000 asylum seekers came in 2014, the number increased in 2015, and now we've brought it down to the lowest we've seen in 9 years. And we do not want to adjust our asylum policy in a way that puts the results achieved in the risk zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144053	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144054	I and many others I think I can say that I was very happy with the words that the Prime Minister said in his opening speech about integration, namely that it is not about skin colour or religion, but about choosing Denmark, and the question I am asking now is therefore by no means polemical, nor am I trying to get the Prime Minister in trouble with any of his partners. But I think it's just something that some people out there are hungry to hear again and maybe hear even more clearly, and so I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Muslims who sit out there and think: Will Denmark ever accept me as a Dane and see me as a countryman, even if I am a Muslim? What will the Prime Minister say to him or to her who sits and thinks it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144150	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144151	You are certainly not present on the audience row, I can see, but it is just a parenthesis. But it's really funny about this heated debate, which is the focal point of Danish politics, that when you move it into the Parliamentary Chamber, it's suddenly completely empty, and there's no one here. But if someone still sits out there, I'll say, and I've been saying that all along, it's not your religion that requires you to be Danish. You can be an atheist, you can be a Jew, you can be a Hindu, you can be a Christian, you can be a great many things, and therefore you can be Danish. You can't turn that back to saying that you are an automatic one, can you? That is why I am sure that there is no doubt that religion has meant much too much failed integration, unfortunately, and that is why it is not the same as religion itself preventing good integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144252	I'd like to sign for that. And there's no one sitting here today, but we're sitting here, and we're talking to people, and I actually think it makes a really big difference to be able to say to people, and of course I have to be loyal and not make it into something, it wasn't that we have a prime minister who doesn't think it's an obstacle to becoming a Dane that you're a Muslim. I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144315	The Prime Minister? Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144318	I would like to follow up on the question raised earlier by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen about children. Because we do agree that there is of course no need to speculate that you can come to Denmark and then get some rights because you have children with you. But that's not what this is about. In most cases, this is about • and I think there are some examples • that it is children who have been in Denmark for many years and who, for some, have grown up here in Denmark, who are just like other Danish children, and who must then suddenly be sent away from the existence they have had. It has not always been safe, it has often been a bit uncertain where you have had to move from place to place, but yet it has been some life like children, like Danish children, you go to Danish primary schools, you have Danish comrades, you have sports, play football, etc., and then you are sent out. After all, should there not be special consideration there without it leading to speculation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144436	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144437	With all due respect, I do not think that was what this was about, because what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen was asking about were the people who sit in centres without obtaining a protection base in Denmark and who grow up in those centres. But let it be, for what is then asked here are the situations where people have come to Denmark and have children, the children grow up and grow up, and the parents have to be sent home. Should the children be sent home, or have they become so Danish, that they should be allowed to stay here? It hits right into this debate, which is about the temporary, and where I have to make myself a little hard, and I'm not going to cover myself behind Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye. But Mr. In his introduction, Mattias Tesfaye made some observations about this: we can't always just take the neighbor's daughter, the local example, and the sunshine story and hold them forward, because we have to stick to some principles. And if people come to Denmark because they temporarily need some protection, and that need falls away, then the starting point is also that they have to go home. If they come to Denmark and, as such, have no right to be here, but we have to admit in practical terms that they are here because we cannot send them home, even if they really have no right to be here, then we have to insist that when we can put that demand through, we also put it through. Because if we do not do that, if we shake our hands there, then we will get some skewed signals about how open Denmark is. I say it with a little harshness in my voice here because I think that is the case. We need to have a realism in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144625	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144627	I understand the dilemma completely. However, I would just like to point out that many of those who are in the exit situation have been here for many years. It is not the case that some have just come here and then they are sent out immediately. These are some who have been in the system for many years and who are also affected by very long processing times sometimes etc. So there is a very specific problem there. There is also a children's convention which I think should be included sometimes when dealing with these matters, which are based on the best interests of the child. Somewhere I think that this angle is very understated in many of the decisions taken in the Danish immigration administration, and that is what I would ask the Prime Minister to be a little more open about looking at differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144734	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144735	But if you have been in the system for many years, for example. Because you have not wanted to work together to go home, even if you have no basis for being here, it is of course no use that this kind of long-heartedness suddenly leads to a right which you do not otherwise have a right to, because then things are getting out of hand. This was a repeat of what I said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144758	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144759	Thank you, and thank the Prime Minister for his speech. As I also said in my own speech, I think it is very nice to hear that the Prime Minister once again states here today that integration is not the first time that it is not about skin colour or belief, but about choosing Denmark for, as the Prime Minister put it. The focus was also on the fact that there must of course be an opportunity to get out to work and participate in society. That is why I was really rather awkward, as the Prime Minister likes to take all parties to pay for all the austerity that the government has made. I can, for example. Just mention a tightening that I do not agree with, and that is about the matter of family reunification rules. It is more a comment, because I thought it was a little awkward, because I actually think, like Holger K. Nielsen, that, unlike last year, it has actually been a discussion in which we may have tried to approach each other. At least I think it has been a good discussion today. So it is actually more a comment, because I think we all agree with the goal, namely that people should be able to integrate and have the opportunity to do so, except perhaps the Danish People's Party; I still have some doubts about that. But I guess there may still be some disagreement about how to get there. So that's more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144924	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112144925	Certainly, and I fully acknowledge that. I don't think I took everyone's income either. I guess I was saying that when there was this growing consensus that the number matters, you might be able to, but it was perhaps such a bit polemical that it took everyone to income for a support for the government's austerity, and I know you can't. This shows the challenge in this case because without these tightenings, the number wouldn't have come down. Everyone is pleased that the number has come down, including those who opposed the tightening. That's the way it is. We can't do counterproductive history writing; otherwise it could have been exciting. If we had removed all the restrictions, we would have faced a bigger problem than what we have now. That's more my point. I know we don't agree on this. Certainly we do not agree on this, but I nevertheless welcome what I was trying to call the new realism that I think is there. When I measure it up against foreign policy debates we had in this hall 10 years ago, 15 years ago, 20 years ago I've been around a long time, there's a higher level of community now than there was. There is. And it's not just in this hall. It is also in Europe where I have been able to see that since Europe started to start in 2015, and when the whole debate started in a crooked corner on how to distribute asylum seekers and migrants among us, over time, in the small two years that have passed, there has been a greater and greater focus on preventing the problem from growing by managing external borders, by having more strategic action in the neighbourhood, by requiring countries to take their own citizens back, etc. So there is a dawning realism, both in the Chamber here and out in Europe, and that is just what I wanted to sign for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145107	That's the PM's point of view. For I could ask in the same way: Well, imagine if we had really continued to have one of the world's highest development aid • that we had not put it down • think if we had now seriously dropped some more money for climate aid in developing countries, and think if we were now seriously in favour of supporting the quota system, how would it have looked here in concrete terms in Denmark? That's always what you're watching. One of the things that makes me a little sad is the PM's New Year's speech, which was basically about the ghetto list. And I would like us to talk about it in a different way. I also believe that words have meaning. I would like us to say socially disadvantaged areas instead. Because I think it matters that you get to know that you live in a ghetto. The second thing I would like to challenge the Prime Minister is the whole question of temporaryness. It is fine that we say that they should go home when the war is over, but we know that it has a very, very long prospect. And how is it that we treat the people who are here in Denmark while they are here temporarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145219	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145220	There's a lot of stuff in that. Having said that, if we gave one of the world's highest development aid, one can say that it is not just a thought example, it is the reality, we do. We do. I can never prove it. However, even if we had given a few million more, I think we must be realistic and say that there would have been no more or fewer spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark in these years. Well, because what's really the challenge here is getting the rest of the world to pull along. I fully agree that if the rest of the world did as Denmark did, we are probably among the five or six countries in the world that are complying with the UN target of 0.7%. of GNP in development aid... then the world could look different. I fully agree that, although one has an ambition for temporaryity, and I do, and I am also open to looking at it, and we were doing so in December, if we can make some adjustments that make it temporary, when it should be temporary, then it will still be the case that some will be here for a very long time. And that's why my starting point is that while you're here, you have to work and earn your own money. You have to be an active part of society. Of course you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145345	An additional brief comment came from Mr. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145347	Thank you. The Prime Minister replied to my party colleague Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and said that he would like to have a differentiated scheme in relation to this amount limit. And this is an interesting proposal which we too would like to see included in the Social Democrats. The only thing we have seen so far is that the government will have a lower limit than the one that is now. But what I do not understand is: the Prime Minister mentioned the example of a New Zealand engineer as someone who could come to Denmark and would be more easily integrated, but one might say that a New Zealand engineer is already on the positive list and, in addition, probably will not receive a salary lower than 417 000 kroner. So what kind of limits are these, and what kind of countries are we talking about? Is it the intention that, for example, skilled and unskilled workers from Albania or Turkey or other countries close to Europe should be able to reach lower limits? Because it is not American, Japanese, New Zealand, Australian skilled and unskilled who come to Denmark as a labour force? That is not what one imagines or how it should be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145456	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145457	There is not so much to imagine, because the Social Democrats belong to a majority of this Parliament which has blocked this. Well, I'm going to make a reference back to the ideas on which my own party was elected, and you can look into that, and the starting point is that there's a blue line going from what we wrote there to what we mean today. That is where we differ from the author's own party. It is true that if you are on the positive list, you are on the positive list, but the point of what I said was not whether it was just an engineer. Well, the point I was trying to make is that there are two dimensions to letting people in from the outside: can people offer any labour we need? Can people offer a life outside, about their work, which is related to being in Denmark? You don't go to work all the time. That is why I was just trying to add the nuance that when we look at how we open up to labour, we should not just look at whether people are good for the 8 hours they are at work. We also need to look at how they work in the 16 hours they're not. I guess it's just that you can come from some countries that are more like Denmark in their cultural origins, in their values, than other countries. That is why my own party, while we were in opposition, thought that, instead of having a single limit, it might be necessary to discuss whether these limits should be differentiated depending on where they come from, because perhaps they had the forecast for themselves. So even if you came as a skilled worker from New Zealand, you would more easily fall into a skilled craftsman in a construction jack than if you came as a skilled craftsman from a country in a cultural circle that is Denmark farther away. That's kind of what was in it. Unfortunately, however, this is an academic discussion, for the Social Democrats have resigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145711	As I said before, we want to discuss it, but it's funny. Now we have received quite clear reports today from the rapporteur of the Left, but in connection with this case up from Thisted there have been slightly different reports about where you are standing. Now we get in on this differentiated system, as such, a third position in relation to it, and it is interesting to know what lies in that system. What would you rather do if you could get away with it? For those countries that remind us of us culturally are characterised by either being part of the European Union or being so prosperous, so the likelihood of unskilled workers coming from New Zealand to Denmark, for example, is relatively small. Will they be reduced, or will they be reduced, for example, by countries such as Albania, Montenegro, countries which are close to Europe but which are not part of the European Union, or by whom? I find that interesting to find out, since the Prime Minister himself is launching this on the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145810	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145812	I'm not launching anything. I express an annoyance at the fact that Social Democracy, with its head under its arm back in 2015, broke up with the policy pursued during the same four years that you yourself were in government. We were against that. That is the regret I am expressing, and I say that instead of that it would have been more visible and much more interesting if there had been some nuances in it. If the way in which you react to what I am saying here is an expression of the desire to discuss these things with us, then not just here on the floor of Parliament's platform, but really discussing it, I would like to welcome it very much, because I foresee that we need to have a debate on this. I suggested this example of some of the red tape requirements that have been built up around the 417,000. Thus, even if you say that 417,000 is fair, it is born with some terms about the way it is managed: that it must be a Danish account, you must not include free board and lodging. There are some demands there that I just know are causing some real problems out there in the right life. The government will have to pick that up in the coming months. We have a debate at the next disruption meeting on precisely this, and I reserve the right to return to the social democracy too, because I imagine that next to this debate we must take care of Denmark and we must make sure that we do not leave the door open to anyone, we also have a responsibility to ensure that our companies get the right workforce in times of growth. If, at the same time, the right workforce comes from some places that do not create new integration problems, it should be on the flat hand. So I'm not launching any new initiative. I'm just trying to nuance a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112145948	Thank you to the Prime Minister for today's work. We are going to the second round, and Mr. Christian Langballe has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112150002	I do not want to open up another round, but I would say to the governing parties that if they lack a proposal for adoption to vote in favour, we have an excellent proposal for adoption. However, I would like to thank the Minister and the various rapporteurs, politicians who have been here today, for a debate that shares the waters, and that is how it is. But thank you for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112150034	You're welcome, sir. Christian Langballe. No other rapporteurs have wished to speak, and no one else has, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 16 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180112150053	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 16 January 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
