ParlaMint-DK_20180516130012	The meeting is open. The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing Hans Andersen joins the Danish Tax Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of a member of the Folketing Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. The person concerned is then elected. Today there is the following review: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 240 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Code of Liability and the Media Liability Act. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have to inform you that the co-questioner under the heading No. Questions to the Minister for Finance (Question No 2) S 742) is deleted at the request of the co-author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that under No. Questions put to the Minister for Finance (Question No 3) S 744) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. In addition, I should like to inform you that under No. 5 questions put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Question No. S 795) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The question shall be put to the vote on Wednesday, 23 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130150	The first question is to the Minister for Finance, and the questioner is Mr Beazley. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130158	Thank you, President. Will the Minister explain how he can say to Ritzau on 25 April 2018 that the economic space looks very positive, because the projection shows that there has been additional freedom in Danish economy..., and this means that we have some more opportunities to invest in both welfare and infrastructure or to lighten, for example, the charges for Danes... when there is actually less money available in 2025 for welfare and no more, if you take into account increased defence costs, and that the PSO savings so far have not only been included as part of the room?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130242	Thank you. Now I had actually planned to include convergence programme 2018 in printed form until I found out that for environmental reasons we are no longer pressing it. Then I wondered if I should hold up my iPad, but now I have chosen to print out a single page, namely page 37 of the convergence programme 2018. It shows that the defence agreement has zero in relation to the change in fiscal space in 2025, i.e. 0. So when it is said that defence expenditure will eat up the scope for 2025, it is simply factually wrong. It is true that by 2020 it will take 0.5 billion. kr. of the room for manoeuvre. What, then, has given it greater room for manoeuvre? Yeah, that's one of them. a question about the provisional accounting figures for 2017, that is, when you look at what consumption has been in the municipalities, in the state, in the regions, we have managed the economy in those areas, so that there is a further 1.5 billion. kr. that can be used forward-looking. So it helps to give growth. Another factor that contributes to growth is that the agreement that is being implemented around a model for financing non-profit housing is approx. 0.25 billion kr. more for the benefit of the Treasury than the original model, which was included in the Finance Act and included in the Space in August 2017. So there are a number of different elements that help to increase the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, which means that we have more opportunities to invest, to facilitate taxes and taxes or to increase public consumption. And yes, it is also true that by moving from a computational technical model that was originally used to convert the PRS tax to the Finance Act, and then to a concrete calculation, it has also been assessed: what is the profile that is on the cost? And the cost is falling more than expected, and the cost will be different, which means that we have an increased room for manoeuvre of 2.5 billion. kr. kr., and that money is just as good as any other money in relation to the initiatives we would like to take politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130505	First of all, I am glad that we have now reached an answer to this question, because we have, of course, pushed the question's answer on a couple of occasions. On the one hand, there was a government raid which we took into account, and on the other hand it was Europe Day last week, and that is why we have mutually agreed to leave the issue at present. And now we can stand here in the summer heat and rejoice to be able to look at it. But that also means, of course, that we have the opportunity to see that the Minister's party, the Left, is no longer basing itself on having a green logo. I do not know whether there is any link between the government's economic line in relation to green investment and the lack of green logo colour in the ruling party of the Left; at least this did not last for so long, it has to be said. But I guess the bottom line is, sir. Minister, that we look at the question of the PSP and the recognition of the PSP also in relation to what the government has put forward to discuss with the parties of the Folketing, it is probably not the case that there has been relatively more money to do well in terms of welfare. And that is what my question to the Minister is about at the outset, given that the government's presentation clearly shows that it is precisely intended to give priority to the green sector in this area. So the question is: has there really been more money for welfare, as the Minister said to Ritzau in April?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130702	Well, there's been more money for what we want politically. And we would like to see a green transition from government to government. We want to invest not just the 2.5 billion. kr., but actually even more from the economic room for manoeuvre in a green conversion, so that we can get more renewable energy, better use of the energy already produced, of the electricity produced by wind turbines, of solar cells and other things, so that we can create an opportunity for the surplus heat that is being wasted today to actually be recovered. These are things in which we want to invest. And this means that we must both work on the taxes that are currently hindering the efficient use of the energy produced and that we must invest something more in supporting the production of renewable energy. It is also for me to see a question of welfare; it is a question of passing on welfare to future generations, of ensuring that we have an ambitious energy agreement that both provides more renewable energy, works with energy savings and makes sure that we do not have stupid taxes that impose what we really want politically. The economic space created is not, after all, a room for manoeuvre which is bound to be spent on just one type of expenditure, that is to say, on public spending alone. It can be applied to many different elements. You can use it on public consumption, you can use it on investment in infrastructure, you can use it on tax reductions, you can use it on several different elements you want. You might be able to use it to increase public services if you want to. But the bottom line is that we have chosen to say that part of the room for manoeuvre is to be used to give priority to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130834	I would just like to remind you that, although we have very complex economic issues on the agenda, we must try to stick to the whole and half minutes we have. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130844	Thank you, President. The reason why I just asked about the quote in question is that there is no green investment in that quote. It may well be that it has been what is called a Freudian statement, on the part of the Minister, of course, and frankly I was rather over it. In particular, I did so in view of the fact that some of the points highlighted are, for example, the issue of taxes. And when you look at the government's proposals in the green area, it has to be said that this is more like a tax relief package than it looks like a green investment package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516130927	It is both an energy investment package that brings more renewable energy into Danish energy production and a tax package. Among other things: When the Environmental Economic Council comes and says that the electricity tax that we have in Denmark is too high; when we can see that all experts say that the electricity heating tax that is in Denmark is too high; when we see that what helps to limit the use of surplus heat better is that the tax rate on reheating is too high, then it is wise to lower the taxes to a different level. The fact is that many of the taxes we have are from a time when it was coal power plants that primarily produced the electricity in Denmark. Today, a primary part of electricity is produced on renewable energy, and therefore there is another dynamic that we must also have to reflect in the taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131012	As the Minister will be aware, the former SR government was also very concerned about taxes and set in motion a number of tax and subsidy analyses, which is something that the government has clearly used as a starting point. However, just because an analysis of the tax and subsidy area is being carried out, it should not necessarily be the case that a large part of the room for manoeuvre is being spent on it. There will also be a number of measures that can be made neutral. And I'm just wondering why the government is planning to spend twice as much on tax reductions as it spends making green investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131050	Well, it is quite true that the previous government did some wise things sometimes. So there is a saying about blind hens and cereals; I shall not repeat that here. However, the previous government did well by launching an analysis of the charges. For the current taxes in the energy sector are bound up with some of what we would like to do. We would like to use electricity for heating instead of using natural gas or coal. We would like to use excess heat instead of letting it out to the birds. But today, it is taxes that make it more difficult to do so. One of the things we can do to get more renewable energy and recycle the energy produced is to reduce taxes. And that is why it is both: both more production but also wise taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131128	Thanks to both sides for thorough questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 to the Minister for Finance, who has also been asked by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131143	What is the reason why the Minister, during the very same week when he prides himself on rediscovered ambitions for the climate, wants to remove the earmarked PRS funds of a total of 2.5 billion. kr., which was otherwise prioritized the green transition, and instead count them into the general scope?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131158	The question is based on an incorrect premise, namely that there is an earmarking of what comes from the conversion of the PSO to the fact that it necessarily needs to be used in a particular direction. It was already discussed earlier, and it was rejected by the government, that we have thus committed ourselves to using a certain margin of manoeuvre in a certain way. One of the things we set out to do when we transferred the PRS to the Finance Act was to ensure that there is now a cross-cutting priority, so when we have to discuss how much we need to make renewable energy, how much we need to spend on making energy savings and other things, it becomes a priority up to the wishes you might otherwise have, about infrastructure, hospitals, care for the elderly, etc. etc. It has then turned out that we are willing not to just spend the 21⁄2 billion. kr., which is released by a specific notification of the PSP, but there is further from the scope to make a green transition. We would actually like to go over the 21⁄2 billion. kr., because we believe it is necessary to go further in terms of getting a real mix of taxes, but also the right climate for us not to continue to expand with sea wind, with sun, with land wind, with biogas. It is important that we have an active system where we can both export a lot of energy technology, but also use it at home. Therefore, what we have said is that we are willing to invest not just the 21⁄2 billion. kr., because it's not a number we've locked ourselves on, but actually up to 31⁄4 billion. kr. in making an effective energy initiative that works both with tax adjustments to get a better and more intelligent level, and with investing so that we get the RES share up to 50%. in 2030, when we include the concrete initiatives and the reserve in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131354	In any case, it is not by chance that, when priority is given to the green area too, it is obvious that priority should be given, for example, to tax reductions, and then that money cannot be used to make investments in, for example, the environment. new green initiatives. Well, that reflects the government's power play, too. It is true that one has taken a look at the fact that one wants to create a large offshore wind farm, which saw at the time when it will be built, at least not the world's largest, but at the same time also that the world around us is clearly moving very rapidly in a direction where it has to be said that there is good speed on the windmill wings in other parts of the world. Therefore, just the simple question to the Minister of Finance: when it is the case that some tax and subsidy analyses have been carried out for as long as they have been known to me, because one of the elements of the tax and subsidy analysis actually led to the solution in the PSO area, which we in the Social Democratic Party were also part of together with the then Left Government, and which is an excellent example of the fact that facilitating taxes does not necessarily have to be a feature of the scope, but, on the contrary, can be a zero-sum game. Why has the government not really had a deeper analysis of what revenue-neutral adjustments can be made in the field of taxation and subsidies? I certainly assume that this kind of analysis has been done, because it would certainly have been done if there had been a different color government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131553	There are quite a lot of reports and analyses as a basis for the government's energy proposals, including an in-depth analysis of taxes and tax adjustments. What we have come up with is that there is in fact both good economy and good environmental economy in, for example. Putting down the electric heating charge now we can just focus on it. It is today the case that a large number of cogeneration plants are working to burn off natural gas to produce electricity and heat. As a result of the fact that we do not just as much need them to produce electricity because we have a lot of wind energy and a lot of solar energy, we can leave them more to produce only heat. They can easily do this more effectively in society by using technologies other than natural gas. They can do this by taking what is, in principle, a huge dip cooker or electric kettle. It is technically called a heat pump and then use it to produce the heat they have to supply. This is both economically and environmentally a gain, and that is why I am going to reduce the tax on electric heating, because then we can have something that benefits both consumers and the environment at the same time. We really think this is a very good way to proceed, and we think that this should be given priority. Fortunately, we have gone some way, because the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, has begun to reduce the electricity tax we just want to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131728	After all, it is very funny that the Minister highlights exactly two of the three elements that are also included in the PSO agreement, i.e. doing something that is economically sensible, while at the same time being green and environmentally sensible. What we need to remember is that the third wheel of the PSP agreement was that it was, at the same time, a solution that was neutral and did not affect the room for manoeuvre, and that is why I am left with the clear feeling that the government has ideas and ideas about how to influence the room less. But it seems like this really has to be a hidden tax relief through the back door.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131813	Nothing's hidden. It is actually quite open that we want to reduce an electricity tax. A very large part of what you pay for today, when you turn on your outlet, are taxes. The taxes, tariffs and VAT imposed are, in fact, a greater proportion than the cost of the actual production of the flow, and we think that expertise would help us to achieve a better balance by reducing the tax. Does it bring benefits to our citizens? Yes, it does. I have no problem saying that openly and honestly. A lower tax is a gain for citizens. In fact, the electricity tax is the way to turn the heavy down. So it hits those who have small incomes hardest, so in relation to having a more equal society, it is quite an excellent tax to lighten. We in the government think this is a good idea, but I regret that the Social Democrats do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131902	After all, the social democracy has often supported changes in the green area, which have also benefited the individual citizen, and here the PSO agreement is an excellent example, and even, as the Minister will know, it is a concrete action which was conceived in the time of the SR government. Having said that, I just have to ask basically: can the Minister here in the Danish Parliament say that there are no models on the government's table that would be able to achieve the same gains by lowering taxes without it affecting the room for manoeuvre, that is, neutral models for changing taxes and subsidies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516131948	I think we are talking past each other, because I have, in this way, an objective which is also that the Danes should be allowed to keep some more of the money they earn themselves. I think that the pensioner, that the worker, that the official, even a member of parliament from Sønderborg, should be allowed to keep some more of what they serve by lowering the tax. So I actually have a goal, while doing something good for the environment, while at the same time ensuring that our surplus heat is used more, that it also means that the Danes get a little more for themselves. We are not talking millions, billions for the individual citizen, but we are talking about a quite nice amount, which means that there will be a little more air in the Danes' economy. I think we can, because when we look at the fact that we have such a strong economy as we currently have, we can also give the Danes a little back in the form of lower taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132034	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht for today's question. We shall now proceed to the question to the Minister for Finance, namely question No. 4 (pm. No. Question No 779 by Mr de la Malène 3 (pm. No. S 744) has been deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132057	It's sir. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132100	Thank you. I would like to ask: has the Minister received a request from the former Minister for Education and Research, Søren Pind, to abolish the re-priority contribution to education and what does the Minister think about abolishing the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132109	I am preparing the government's financial bill for 2019, and in that process there is a dialogue with all ministries, where we exchange ideas and ideas both on an oral level and on a written basis back and forth. So yes, I have been approached by a number of ministers. I have also received a request from the Minister who has now resigned. But what is interesting here is that he has resigned, and that means that the dialogue I have brought forward is with the new Minister in this area. This is a dialogue which will lead us to present next August's draft financial regulation. It is not because I object to discussing either re-priority contributions or anything else, but I am not actually discussing what lies in next year's Finance Act until we come to next year's Finance Act. So I would just like to say, overall, about the re-priority contribution, that this is, of course, a contribution that has been in the public sector for a long time, when we have asked the public sector to be 2%. more efficient. We have picked up a pool that does not go into the treasury but is given priority to other investments, which is among other things. has helped us to afford to increase research efforts, that we have been able to afford to hire more police officers, that we have been able to afford to lift our cancer efforts. What the government has done is that within the last few years we have also asked the Ministry of Culture and the institutions of the Ministry of Education to contribute to this joint pool. That is what has helped to create a pressure of efficiency that has been seen around. At the same time, however, it has provided the opportunity for us to add more money to a wide range of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132257	Thank you for your answer. I am, in fact, most interested in raising a debate on the re-prioritisation contribution and on what it has had to do with consequences. That is why, of course, I think it was very interesting that the former Minister of Education, who himself had been sitting on this subject and had seen the consequences of this change of priority contribution, just as he himself said that it must be time for this to stop and that I would like to make that recommendation. I saw it somewhat as such a final service to students in Denmark from the Minister of Education, and I was pleased about that. When I look at the re-priority contribution and the consequences it has had, it is more than just 2%. That's 2%. A year, and that's 2%. a year all the way up to 2021. And after what I've been able to figure out, that's about. 14.7 billion kr. So it may be that 2%. sounds like a bit for those who are listening on television from the Folketing, but 14.7 billion. kr. After all, it leads to fewer hours leading to less feedback, which means a thousand fewer teachers in upper secondary education in Denmark, that means more students in the classes, and that means fewer oral exams. These are the consequences of these savings, and they are the consequences of the fact that the government has almost seen education as an inexhaustible well when it comes to financing other initiatives. I would really like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister, like the outgoing Minister for Education and Research, believes that these savings have had some consequences for training and that these may be negative consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132421	Unfortunately, since some time in the 1980s, I cannot remember exactly when the efficiency rounds were held, when the Ministry of Finance has asked the Council of Resorts and, incidentally, its own department to be 1 or 2 or 11⁄2 per cent. more effective every year. And if you take it over the whole period, it should lead to us having no public sector today if the logic, as Mr. Jacob Mark is going out, should be right. Because then we would have had to pursue a policy that only reduced budgets. The fact is that it is not a rate of saving, it is a rate of re-prioritisation. That means you spend the money somewhere else. And funds over the last ten years have been allocated massively to education. If you take it in gross terms in youth and higher education, you can see that the figure has increased in inflation-cleaned figures from 25.3 billion. kr. in 2008 to 31.4 billion. kr. in 2018, when you bring all the expenses that are in the area, including the SU. In fact, I think that is a step forward and not a decline.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132531	First of all, it's talmagi... it's such classic politician talmagic. Because it is true that there has been more spending on the SU, but it is also because, for example, we have to do so. has moved more from cash benefits to SU. Then it is clear that the cost of the SU is rising. It was also said when that story was going on in the media, that we now spent more money. There are also more students taking an education than in the past, and this also means that there will be more money for education, but that does not mean that there is more money for the individual student. What you are experiencing right now is that there is less money for the individual student. The Danish People's Party has been out saying that you cannot have the same ambitions for research and education if these savings continue. Does the Minister agree with the Danish People's Party, which is the government's support party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132611	I agree that we have concluded financial agreements since 2015, which include a re-prioritisation contribution, and that re-prioritisation contribution has been used to make concrete targeted initiatives. It is a re-prioritization contribution which, among other things, includes: has helped to finance that we have increased the police force corresponding to a doubling of the entire Funen police force. This is what has enabled us, in our health area, to afford to hire 1,000 doctors more alone since 2015. That is what makes it possible for us to support an ecological change, which means that we convert an agricultural area corresponding to 150 football fields every day. So we have chosen to prioritise funds in the public sector in a different way. And it is not just a question of the figures I mentioned being SU figures. It is also a question of what is actually going on for specific training courses. So it's not just SU figures, it's also concrete teaching figures that have gone up from 2008-2018. Today we spend more money than ten years ago on education. We spend more money making sure we have a smarter and smarter generation, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132714	Yes, than 10 years ago, but not from the start of the government. In other words, if you clean up the SU, and if you clean up the fact that more students have arrived, you spend less money per year. students today, and that is because of the re-priority contribution. And that is because it is not a re-priority contribution. It was a re-priority contribution in the last government where we said: we save 2%. In the course of the training course, it leads to some other training. Here we have chosen to say: we save on education and bring it to another welfare area. The problem is that we do not have good doctors in the future; we do not have good police officers in the future if we keep saving on education. So my question is, because now the business community has been saying, "Dansk Erhverv, Novo Nordisk, some of those who interfere internationally as companies have been saying that this contribution should be abolished: can the logic of making it a real re-prioritisation contribution, at least from the government's point of view, so that what you save is within the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132802	What is being drawn into a re-priority contribution is being used again to strengthen Danish welfare. Every year we assess in relation to the Finance Act where it is most necessary to strengthen Danish welfare. In fact, we believe that it is right that some schools have been asked to do the same as all sorts of other public institutions, namely to help to be a little more effective, including in areas such as the operation of buildings, also in areas such as the operation of IT, also in areas such as energy costs and other things, and to ensure that that money is invested in targeted areas in the public sector. And we have prioritised greater security in the form of more officers, we have prioritised greater security in the form of more doctors, and we have prioritised that we can now research more because we are following the development of GDP by 1%. in research expenditure each year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132852	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark for his question and thanks to the Minister for an extremely thorough answer today. Question 5 (pm. No. S 795) has been deleted, and so we move on to Question 6 (pm. No. S 798, which is for the Minister of Culture. The questioner is sir. Orla Hav of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132858	The question has been withdrawn as it has been withdrawn by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132910	Thank you. I read the question: What action does the Minister intend to take in relation to the fact that the Committee on Culture's hearing on municipal music and cultural schools on 2 May 2018 showed that there is an imbalance in which children are able to make use of offers from music and cultural schools, especially because of the high student fees, and that children of economically disadvantaged families thus have less opportunity to make use of the offer than children of middle and high-income families?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516132945	Thank you for the question. It's an important question, sir. Orla Hav travels here. We had the opportunity recently to discuss it on 2 May at the excellent hearing of the Committee on Culture. After all, a report has been made which shows that in some municipalities the music schools do very well, in other municipalities it actually lags behind when it comes to reaching out to all children. First of all, I would like to say that this problem cannot just be solved from the top down, like so many others. We must start from the actual reality of the children and their parents. After all, we had a school reform here a few years ago, such as: introduced some long school days which I think have reinforced the problem for some parents that the children do not get off school until late, so maybe they have to be taken to the music schools, then you have to wait for the teaching to take place and then they come home late. It points out that part of the solution will probably be that we will have a much stronger cooperation between primary schools and music schools/culture schools, as is now called in some municipalities. Indeed, we need to be sure that children have access to these offers, and I do not believe that it is necessarily a question of economy when you can see how different municipalities are actually carrying out this task today. However, I would like, together with the rapporteur and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to look at what concrete initiatives we can set in motion, but one of my first priorities is therefore stronger and closer cooperation between primary schools and music schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133117	I think the Minister will be very sympathetic to this, in other words to go along that path. But the numbers speak their creepy language. It was not only in the hearing but also in the report produced by the Ministry, which was called Music Schools in Denmark, which says: "Music Schools now reach 4 percent of the entire target group of the 0-24 year olds and 7 percent of the school-seeking children between 6 and 16 years old. This is the gap that we need to find a gifted solution to and ensure that there are some children who have a good cultural experience and an experience for life that can make them stronger and richer when it comes to committing themselves in this society. That is why it is absolutely essential that the Minister take specific initiatives on what can be done in this area. Well, I can hear about the long day of school, and I don't know what. I'm gonna stop entertaining the fact that I also went to school on Saturdays and stuff like that. However, it is a little crucial that the government takes concrete initiatives which help to ensure that there is a group of children who are being offered an offer which they are now cut off from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133234	I also went to school on Saturdays, and I helped arrange a Saturday - free demonstration. But that meant that at that time you actually had shorter school days. And that's a problem. It also has some opportunities. But it's a problem that school days have become so long. And that is why I will work for and see if we can better integrate the work of the music schools into what is going on in the public schools. I don't believe this is a question of adding more resources. And we should also bear in mind that the music schools are of course the municipalities. It may be that you also have to look at the economy, but I think that it is above all some other barriers that do so. And you can also see this if you compare municipalities that are largely adjacent to each other, so that in one municipality there are many children who have access, and in the other municipality there are very few. So this is also about the way things are dealt with in the municipalities, the public schools and the music schools. And there is great potential, and we must, of course, have that potential unfolded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133328	Again, I think it's an open door, the Minister kicks in. All parties in here, I think, would like to see better cooperation between schools, music schools and cultural schools. It is quite obvious, I think that is certainly very good. But the truth is that while the municipalities have increased their contributions to cultural schools and music schools, the state has reduced its contribution, and that must then be compensated by the parental payment. Maybe that's why we can see that 55%. of the music school students come from families with a household income of over 800,000 kroner. a year. It is, of course, the social barrier that we want to help break and support the Minister in taking concrete initiatives to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133418	I would like to work together on this, but I just want to emphasise that I do not believe that it is money that can solve this problem. It is a fundamental problem which is about something else, namely that it has become difficult to use the offer of music schools in some parts of the country. There are municipalities that have already taken very interesting initiatives in order to make this cooperation work better. But there is one other thing that I think we should also discuss, and I also know that the rapporteur will be interested in discussing it. That is what educational methods are used. Should it be simple teaching in an instrument, or should we also start with some interplay for the very young children at an earlier stage in order to maintain their interest, as social matters also matter? So I think there are a number of ways to go. If the rapporteur found that I am kicking an open door in relation to the rapporteur, then it is also going the other way, so let us see if we can find solutions that will allow more children to have access to music. I believe that this is an essential objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133515	As far as cooperation is concerned, which includes having others, we must say teaching methods, the Minister should not hear an evil word on our part. What is crucial is that we give children a good offer. The problem is that the Minister is a bit of a problem denying that we are also dealing with a socio-economic challenge. It is the wealthy part of the population who has the opportunity to send their children to music lessons, and we think that is a pity. However, we would like to take a positive view of the initiatives taken by the Minister in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133555-2	It is true that we have to go further, but it could be that one of the problems was precisely that there is a distance between primary and music school, and that it is the resourceful ones who have a greater chance of moving their children from primary school to music school and home, to a greater extent than the resourceless ones. There it might well be that some of the problems could be solved by creating greater proximity without necessarily costing more. But let us discuss it. I think it is essential that we agree that there is a potential that we should have reaped.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133628	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, and the question is for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and the questioner is Mr. Rasmus Prehn from Social Democracy
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133638	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133640	Thank you. I have to read out the question: does the Minister think that the Committee of Experts' proposals for new port laws take sufficient account of the interests of small and medium-sized ports?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133651	Thank you for the question. First of all, I can inform you that the Committee of Experts was set up in 2017 to provide recommendations for the revision of the current port law of 2012. The Committee was given the task of assessing whether the current port law regulates the structure and organisation of public ports in a way that ensures administrative and competitive clarity. In its work, therefore, the Committee has focused on fair and equal competition between public and private companies in the port sector, and the Committee has proposed a number of ground rules for the relationship between municipalities, ports and private companies in ports. These are very detailed recommendations relating to several ministerial areas and a process has been initiated in the government where the committee's recommendations are to be discussed. I will therefore only take a specific position on the committee's recommendations, including issues relating to the interests of small and medium-sized ports, once the committee's recommendations have been discussed in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133801	First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for also reviewing the history which, as it were, precedes the draft of a new port law by the Committee of Experts. It is of course useful just to have it repeated. What surprises me, as the Social Democrat rapporteur on transport, is that this great work is being set in motion, and then some recommendations are being made which, to such an extent, seem to contradict the interests of the Danish ports, particularly the medium-sized and small ports, of the National Association of Municipalities and of several others who have criticized the fact that, as a small or medium-sized port, a lot of new bureaucracy is being added and may also be deprived of some opportunities to continue as a port of self-government and other things, so that the conditions for operating port as a small or medium-sized port become very, very difficult. Why has the Minister not chosen a process in which these people had been more involved and perhaps also involved us as rapporteurs in this area, so that we could have had a move that more fugitive with what interests and needs there are in Denmark, but also with these ports? Because it seems a little like you're coming and you've missed a lot, compared to where we're going to land in this area. There will be a lot of unnecessary frustration and anxiety in some of the smaller municipalities, who are very fond of their harbour and would like to use it as a growth locomotive for their municipality. Could this not have been dealt with in a slightly more appropriate way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516133947-2	All things can be dealt with in other ways, and I am aware that there are members of the opposition in the Folketing who always think that the way the government has done this is wrong. No matter how right it may be, they still think it's wrong. I have chosen the approach of asking experts, people with an understanding of it but also people with an interest in the Danish ports have sat on the committee, and Dansk Industri has sat on the committee to sit down, look at things and then reach agreement on recommendations if possible. And this is very important because the committee reached agreement. The Danish Ports agree with the rest of the committee on these recommendations. And then the government will discuss it in the various ministerial areas concerned and find the government's position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134041	First of all, I would like to stress that there are several examples of the fact that we too, on the part of the Social Democrats, have supported the government and supported the government in what the government has put forward. So it's not just that we partout is against because the government has put something forward, not at all. We want to be constructive. But here we can only see that, when this committee of experts is presented with a proposal for a new port law, it is, among other things. The National Association of Municipalities, which on behalf of all of these 98 municipalities, including the bourgeois municipalities, expresses their deep concern about some things in this area. And it is strange that the interests of small and medium-sized ports have not been taken into account any more. What impression does it make on the Minister that the National Association of Municipalities reports out as clearly and negatively as they have done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134125	All ports are members of Danske Harbour, and Danske Harbour has been on the committee. This means that the municipalities whose mayors are now dissatisfied also have a port which is a member of Danske Harbour, who has been on the committee. And Danske Harbour agrees with the recommendations that come here. I am well aware that a committee of experts has its advantages and that a committee of stakeholders has other advantages. Sometimes you choose the committee of experts because you want to have a good idea of what the right thing is to do for Danish society. At other times, a stakeholder committee is chosen to find out what stakeholders can agree with each other on. But if you want to know what the right thing is to do for Danish society, for some people who know about it, and then have the political process where you take into account different interests, etc., then you choose the committee of experts. And unless the Social Democratic Party has got a new policy that committees of experts are always bad, then the Social Democracy must also be open to the fact that the Committee of Experts could also be a good idea and a good idea in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134236	First of all, I would like to stress that we have great respect for the establishment of a committee of experts. It may be very sensible, as the Minister says, to have some of the wisest heads in the field to report what they see as the sight lines in the field. It's healthy and sensible. But if you are to understand this proposal as an expression of the view of the government that a number of small and medium-sized ports must close, then it is simply a veritable grink killing in smaller ports in Denmark that the government is going to carry out here. Can the Minister mention some of the ports which he would prefer to see closed as a result of this amendment to the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134313-2	I can say so much that neither the government nor I have a goal or a desire for ports to close. That's one hundred percent sure. We can talk about what form of organisation they should take, and that is also what the committee of experts has proposed. But it's not the same as closing. But let's talk. The government needs to form its opinion. There are several ministerial areas involved and ministers need to talk, the government needs to talk. The recommendations just came in. And then when the government has its bid for its position, we can, of course, take the discussion here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134344	Thank you to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, which is for the Minister of Education and Research, and the questioner is also Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134400	Thank you very much, President. I have to read the question again: does the Minister agree that students spend longer on their education because of our generous SU system, and that this can be changed by changing the weighting between grants and loan opportunities, as indicated by the VLAK Government's 2025 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134421	Thank you for the floor. As I mentioned earlier, I am proud of the Danish SU system... we discussed it here a week ago. I think it offers every opportunity to train, and I would very much like to hold on to that, and I think we should stick to that. At the same time, of course, we must constantly look at whether we can do better and whether we spend taxpayers' money as sensibly as possible. I am the minister of the researchers, I am the minister of the teachers, and I am also the minister of the students. I know that the SU obviously means a great deal to the students, and that is why I owe it to them to get into this area properly before I report anything further. Having said that, there should be no doubt that I believe that it should be both professionally challenging to read and that we should make every effort to ensure that as many people as possible carry out the study in the prescribed time. I think the Danish SU system should support this. However, as I mentioned last week, I have not yet determined how best to follow up on the government basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134529	Well, thank you again to the Minister for stepping up here, even on a sunny day, where perhaps there could be more enjoyable things to do than to stand in this Chamber. But this is an important matter, and the government has stated very clearly that the students' SU will be reduced. It is therefore a clear objective of the government that that is what you want. That's why it's a little weird when it's that we're approaching a parliamentary election that's gonna be here by 17 June 2019 at the latest there's only a year left to go... that we haven't heard more concretely what the government is imagining. I believe that there will be many students, including many relatives, many other citizens in general who are interested in knowing before going to the polls whether it is actually the case that the government is again going to election to reduce the conditions for Danish students. Or are we changing our attitude in this area, because there were a little new tones last week when the new minister said that he was aware that we should also take it seriously that more and more young people are getting stress as a result of our very high focus on momentum? The outgoing minister, sir. Søren Pind, has also said in several interviews, both before he resigned and after, that we simply have too much focus on the students being beaten quickly through the system. Then you could have the hope that the new minister was a blessing to all of us and now came up with a more humane view of this and that won't whip the students so much and that won't stress the students so much. When it is that two Wednesdays in a row the Minister is hesitating to be exactly what the government thinks in this area, then there is reason for hope for us who think we should maintain a strong SU system, because it is so important in terms of social mobility, model breakers, and that we get more people who get an education, etc.? Is the government realizing that this very steep course of just whip through the students and turn down the SU has been a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134741	I don't think I'm coming either as a messiah or a blessing, and with one magic trick I can point out what exactly has led to the young people feeling stressed, and that especially so many young girls out there answer that they're hurting in life. It really touches me, and it's one of the things I hadn't seen before when I was outside, but now I'm familiar with it. That is also why I replied this way when we were here last week. So it touches me. But I think it's just a very complex issue where we have to understand how much the individual elements of the education system mean for this discussion. I fully agree with the questioner that this is so important, and now that I have been asked by the Prime Minister to lead this ministry, I owe it to both the Prime Minister, the rest of the government and the Folketing here that I really feel inside the material before I start to report anything. So that's what it has to be seen as an expression of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134836	But both the first government of the Left and now the new government of the VLAK have been very clear in the spit, so it was quite unusually clear in the spit that the SU has to be turned down, and it seems a little as if when the Minister answers he is not so sure about it anymore, then he is not so clear in the spit, so he would like to look into things a little more. Is there a light in the dark here? Will the Minister rule out the fact that when he has come to terms with things, he sees the light that one should be careful not to stress young people so much, because it simply causes too much stress and depression out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134917	I'm two weeks in, so I don't think I'm in a position yet, where I can rule out any things, but I can promise that I'll get really good into things, and that's what I'm spending my time on at the moment. But although I come from outside and am a new member both in the Left, but also in government and politics at all, I am part of a team. I am part of a team here in the Folketing, I am part of a team in the government, I am part of a team in the Left, and there I am also operating within what that team thinks, and there is a government basis that also sets the framework for the field of activity I have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516134954	Was the Minister aware, when the Minister agreed to become a minister, that he was going to be in charge of a truly liberal kicking team against the students who are going to turn the SU down?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135007	I am absolutely not in charge of a truly liberal beating team. I am at the head of a ministry and I have read the whole government base and various growth plans before I agreed to become a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135024	Thank you to both the Minister and Mr. Rasmus Prehn for today's work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135032	The debate is open and I warmly welcome the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135055	Thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution to extend the possibility of caring leave to relatives of terminal patients who wish to die outside the home. It is so crucial that at the end of life we come from here in a dignified and respectful way. Death itself cannot change, but we can make the last time as right for the individual and his or her relatives as possible. The government has a great focus on dignity in the care of the elderly, and in the older policy vision that I published in March of this year, just more presence at the end of life is one of the four points of reference for what we in the government want to achieve with our initiatives in the area of the elderly. Presence at the end of life is important for both the dying and the next of kin. For many dying, it is a desire to be surrounded by relatives in the very last phase of life. And where it is not possible, it is important to prioritise that there are people around the dying elderly, whether it is about giving care, holding hands or talking to the elderly about what it is like to get out of here. There must be security for the elderly in the last few days. Therefore, the government and Dansk Folkeparti with the 2018 Finance Act have set aside 60 million. kr. annually to support the municipalities in their task of ensuring a dignified end to life. Among other things, it can be done. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. nursing homes and involving civil society, e.g. by involving volunteers from vigil services. Another initiative of the government is the policies of dignity. All municipal councils have been obliged since 2016 to formulate a dignity policy that describes the overall pointers and principles for a more dignified care of the elderly locally in the municipalities. In the policies of dignity, the municipalities must, among other things,: relate to the area a dignified death. I am pleased that both municipalities and older councils and stakeholders in this area have welcomed dignity policies. With dignity policies, 1 billion will follow each year. kr. to support the municipalities' priorities in the dignity policy. The mid-term evaluation shows that the funds go towards a more dignified care for the elderly and that the dignity policies help to set a policy of value in the municipalities, also in relation to ensuring a dignified death. This leads me to the specific motion for a resolution to extend the possibility of care leave to terminal patients who wish to die outside the home. Let me start by stating that I think this is a sympathetic proposal. It is difficult to disagree that dying and next of kin should have the opportunity to be as close as possible to each other in the last few days. The purpose of the care scheme in its present form is to give relatives the opportunity to care for someone close to them who wants to die in his own home in the last few days. It is therefore only a system that comes into force once a doctor has established that hospital treatment is hopeless and that the condition of the caregiver does not require hospitalisation or stay in a hospital or stay in a foster home or similar. In addition, the weight is shifted from healing treatment to care and relief in the late days. It is therefore also a prerequisite that the condition of the care-seekers does not require hospitalisation or stay in hospital or, for example, nursing homes where there are 24-hour staff. So it should be appropriate to care for the dying person at home. The care scheme should therefore also be regarded as a substitute for the 24-hour care provided by the staff in hospitals, nursing homes and hospices, a staff who are trained to provide professional care and dignified care for dying elderly people, and I appreciate their work incredibly much. With that said, I also fully acknowledge the great effort made by relatives of weak elderly people in nursing homes, hospitals and hospices every day. Their presence is so infinitely important in the final phase of life. Professionals can't replace that presence. The motion for a resolution we are debating today involves the extension of the care allowance to the relatives of terminal patients who die outside the home. This is a very considerable increase in the target group. Up to 80%. In the case of all deaths in Denmark outside the home, this means that the resolution will be a five-fold increase in the target group of the scheme. In my answer to question No. 508 from September 2017 I have previously informed Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that an extension of the care scheme to include the dying in nursing homes would expect to lead to a doubling of the costs corresponding to an additional annual cost of approx. 102 million kr. and that this is an uncertain estimate. It is important to be aware that the estimated additional cost of approx. 102 million kr. In my reply to Mrs Kirsten Normann, Andersen only refers to the extension of the caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's caretaker's. The motion for a resolution proposes extending the target group to the next of kin to all dying people. The proposed extension of the scheme would therefore represent a much greater cost than the 102 million. kr. as indicated in the motion for a resolution. As has already been said, the motion for a resolution will deal with as much as a five-fold increase in the target group. Against this background, the Ministry of Health and the Elderly estimates that the potential additional costs associated with the resolution could be up to approx. 400 million kr. annual. But let me stress again that this is a very uncertain estimate, because it is difficult to assess how many people will take advantage of an extension of the scheme and to what extent they will take advantage of this extension. But on that basis I do not see for myself that with a snap we extend the scheme to include all dying people in Denmark. The proposal contains exciting elements, but I think it is too far-reaching in its present form. However, I am always happy to discuss how we can better support the relatives of the dying outside the home. It is important for us that we ensure a dignified death for the elderly, because we owe it to them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135729	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135734	Thank you for that and also thank you for the new calculation. I think that the Minister may have taken the view that care leave or the remuneration of care leave is similar to what we know today. Very many relatives take advantage of e.g. If they choose to take the day off, they simply register for sickness. It is also a matter of a few days when we are talking about citizens in nursing homes, as opposed to nursing leave in the home. Does the Minister think that one such person can compare care leave to the dying person in his own home with care leave, which may be needed, to citizens who are in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135819	No, as I just said, it's very awesome. We don't know how many people are gonna take advantage of this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135829	So it might be assumed that the Minister would perhaps agree to try to dive a little closer into what it would actually cost if it were to be the case that the scheme should be extended to those who sometimes have a few hours, perhaps days, as it is when we are talking about dying, who are in the hospital or who are at the nursing home, or who are at hospice, so that you as a relative have the opportunity to be present. And for the record, I think the Minister said that relatives replace the staff when you are on maternity leave to die in your own home. Does the Minister consider this to be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135902	I will not be able to say how much this is going to be on the basis of these things, which I have also mentioned. It is very uncertain how many people will take advantage of this scheme, but what we can say in any case is that it could involve an additional cost of as much as 400 million. kr. annual.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135919	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. There are no more brief remarks, and then we turn to the rapporteurs of the parties, and the first is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516135934	Thank you very much, President. I continue to thank you, because I would also like to thank the SF for having tabled this motion for a resolution, because it is in every way an incredibly sympathetic proposal, that is to say to give relatives the opportunity to be with their dying relatives, when that is what life offers a human being. For us Socialists, it is incredibly important to set up a proper and worthy framework for us to be able to be together in the last few days. This is both the framework for the sick and the dying, but it is also the joy that the next of kin can have the necessary calm and presence around it, that there is a next of kin who lies and must die. We have put a great deal of pressure on this Parliament, and it was a great pleasure for us when last year we were able to legislate to increase the self-determination of the individual in relation to the last part of life when one is inevitably dying. It was a great pleasure that we were in particular a few parties in here who pressured the government to set up treatment testaments, that is, the place we can all write things down before we get sick and dying. I also agree with the SF when they write in their comments on the resolution here that no one should die alone. That's a really nice sentence. Here, of course, the strong community and society must be there, and I think that is also a fixed point for all those who work in the field of care and treatment, that is to say that it is a fixed objective for them. This is true both when you are dying at home, but also when you are at one of society's institutions, such as hospice, nursing home or hospital. A real paradox has been raised in the SF resolution here in relation to care leave and care allowance, because if the dying citizen is only at home, but the need for care becomes so great that the citizen is moved to a hospital or at a hospice, the possibility of continuing the care leave and care allowance that may be given during that period is removed. There is a real paradox in that. But I must also say that I do not think that the SF is providing funding for this motion for a resolution which seems sufficiently well assessed to enable us, on the part of the Socialist Group, to support this motion for a resolution, because the SF is proposing that it should be over 100 million. kr., there is the estimate that the Minister for the Elderly also mentioned and given by the Ministry, must be taken from the rate pool. I have been involved in negotiating the pool of rates for many years now, and that is not the way to seize the pool of rates. It could be nice if the money tank in the form of the bet pool was just so big that you could meet any wishes you might have, but unfortunately that is not the case. The Social Democrats think it is a sympathetic proposal, and if there is funding at some point, we are also happy to discuss this point, because there are some immediate paradoxes in it, for example. The only thing that can be done is to get the care leave and the care allowance only when the dying person is at home, but not if a phase for the dying person makes him, for example, sick. Going to a hospice. So, in the light of the somewhat uncertain economic estimate and the way the SF will finance it here, we cannot support the resolution by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516140336	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516140345	Being a dying relative is really, really difficult, because as a relative you must be present and be with the one you love, the last time you have. We all assume that I can also hear from some of the speakers that they are older relatives, but it can be at any age that we have relatives for dying. In the Danish People's Party we want and work for a better palliative system in Denmark; more hospice places for both young and old. These are some of the things we have also put money on together with other parties in the Danish Parliament. We have got money set aside for outgoing teams to die, we have set aside money for extra hospice places, and we have set in motion schemes in the municipalities to ensure the help that we believe is necessary when you have dying. Today we have a very good care leave system for those who want to care for the dying in their own homes. I've come to a lot of them while I was a home helper driving around. For even if they are on care leave, you also go to the home as a home helper; you give medicines, you give relief, you change. But of course there are some things that the relatives can do when they are there, because what is often needed is to be able to sit and hold hands or just be present, because as dying many times you have a lot of thoughts. You can have anxiety, you can have pain, and the relief that is in someone sitting next to you makes death easier to get through or if you get through, I don't know; but it certainly makes it easier for the dying person to get this process over if you can put it that way. We have asked for more staff to be provided. There is a greater concern, a holistic mindset. We also know that some people actually live up when they come on a hospice and are almost sent back home, because then they are not as dying terminals as we say in the professional language of the profession as they had been expected, because there is time to give the care and care that is necessary. I understand the SF's proposal. For there are many today who have a job or may not live right around the corner where their relatives live and who cannot take the day off or have no time at all. If you live in Aalborg and the other lives in Lolland, not everyone can take the day off. Some can't afford it, some can't make it stick together, so I definitely think it's something you should look at. I do not think that you should have the same care leave as those who are in their own homes and care for their dying relatives, but that we should look at some opportunities to give some help to those who say: I have here my relatives who are at a care centre as it may be, or it may be in a hospital department etc. The relief that it will bring to the individual will provide a much better quality of life in the last few days, but at the same time it will also make it possible to be present as a relative, to provide it with security and the help it needs for its staff. I'm not saying you have to take their jobs. But I've been trying to work at a care center where there was an elderly lady screaming out of fear, but we didn't have the resources to sit in there, and we didn't have any awake wives. How nice it would have been if there had been a next of kin sitting and holding hands. Because sometimes it's enough for them to calm down and get the calm that it takes to get the dignified death that we all want. So I would like to look at the proposal. It is true that the proposal before us is not what we can support. It is estimated that 102 million will be spent. kr. I think we should look at what the criteria could be and then ensure that we do something for the group of people who might need this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516140822	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516140829	Thank you. Death is a taboo that I hope in time we can break with. Because we only have life until death strikes, and in the Left we have a great desire that, when that happens, we get the opportunity to leave life with dignity and in a way that we ourselves have an influence on. A worthy death is not one size fits all: Some want relatives close by, others prefer to be alone or with a single close friend or friend. Some want medicine so you can sleep quietly, others hold on to life with the edge of your nails and refuse to let go. Some want to die in their own homes, others in hospice or in a hospital. We're different on our way in and out of life. Today, we have the opportunity to take leave and receive a care allowance if we are to look after a relative in the very last time. In the motion for a resolution here, the SF proposes to extend the present system to allow for leave and remuneration, regardless of whether the dying's relatives spend the last time in the home or outside the home. be at the hospital, at a hospice or in a foster home. In the Left, we share the intention that the last time should be as good as possible, and we recognise that both the dying and the next of kin will often have a great common need for presence in the past. In the Left we would like to discuss how best to support both relatives and dying. If we cannot support the resolution here, it is for several reasons. Firstly, we believe that enlargement is contrary to the purpose of the present system, which is to take care of a dying person in the home. Secondly, we believe that the proposal here is a significant extension of the system, which will mean a relatively high economic pressure in the region of 400 million. kr. After all, you cannot make a life of money, and when I mention the economy, it is simply because, as it is today, there are professionally and skilfully staffed 24-hours, among other things. nursing homes, hospices and hospitals who are trained to take care of and make sure that our loved ones also experience the last time as worthy. In Denmark, up to 80% are employed. of all deaths outside the home. It is potentially a great many relatives who will be given leave and remuneration if the SF's motion for a resolution becomes a reality. The costs to which the SF refers in the motion for a resolution apply only to dying people who die in nursing homes and not, therefore, for example. In hospitals. We have already taken several initiatives which in various ways support a dignified death and ensure help and relief for relatives who take on a major task. Let me give you a couple of examples: With the 2018 Finance Act, we set off with the Danish People's Party • 60 million. kr. Every year to support the municipalities in their task of ensuring the elderly are dying, with whom the municipalities are in contact, a good and dignified end to life. It can, for example, be done. by involving civil society and by involving voluntary vigil. As far as the economy is concerned, I have noted that the SF wants to use this year's pool of rates on care leave for relatives. I look forward to the discussions on the negotiating table for October-November. The Left cannot support the proposal as put forward, but we look forward, as I have said, to discussions in the circle of movements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141205	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten-De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141215	Thank you for that, President. Today you can only get a care leave granted if you want to take care of a next of kin who is dying in his own home. In the motion for a resolution here, the SF proposes to extend that right so that you can also have a care leave if your relatives are dying while they live in a nursing home or are in hospital or hospice. SF proposes that this be financed through the rate pool. According to the resolution, it will cost just over 100 million. kr. I understand from the Minister for the Elderly today that there is a discussion about that. In that case, we will have to come back to that. Overall, I think this is a good proposal from the SF. The idea is certainly sympathetic and good. There is no doubt that whether you are at home or you are somewhere else and are dying, it is very important to have relatives around you, partly to be able to say goodbye and take the conversations that sometimes open up an opportunity when you are dying, partly to reduce the anxiety that many experience when they approach death. I also think it is important that, although it is the Minister for the Elderly that we have here today, we bear in mind that it is not only the elderly who are dying. It is also children and people in all stages of life. Perhaps you have originally thought, when you did the nursing leave, that when a dying person is in a nursing home, a hospice or a hospital, there are some others to care for care and care. But there is no doubt that much more is at stake when you are dying than normal care and care. There you are particularly vulnerable and have a special need to feel a presence and also feel the presence of someone who knows you. That is why we certainly think, as I said at the outset, that this is a sympathetic and good proposal. It is important, and I think this is actually emphasised in the proposal, that it will not be in such a way as to see the relatives who are then there as a substitute for the professional staff who are otherwise in a nursing home or a hospice. There will still be some care tasks, some care tasks, which need to be carried out by the professional staff. The relatives also have a need to be allowed to be relatives, and a good opportunity must be found for cooperation in this regard. Some other models could also be discussed. I heard others put up with it too. We have, for example. Earlier on the Enhedslisten suggested that a right to some caring days or nursing days should be granted rather than a genuine leave, which could also be used when it was not a real terminal phase, but for the tasks that exist and to alleviate the stress that many relatives encounter. It could be another model. When we cannot support the proposal, this is due to the funding that the SF is giving. SF points out that it has to be financed through the rate pool, and it is after all all all the parties in this Parliament know that Enhedslisten is not part of the bet pool settlement. We are not, after all, because we think that there is a fundamental problem in the fact that every year some 14 billion are taken. kr., by not regulating transfer income in line with wage developments. It has quite major consequences. According to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, this means that transfer income has not been regulated, that a single folk pensionist receives DKK 7,117. less a year than if they had followed the wage developments that we others had. At the same time, it is the case today that almost all 13 out of the 14 billion. kr. Today is tied to permanent arrangements. It could, for example, be done. This is certainly not an experiment, but a permanent one. So it is money which is only paid by the people who have the lowest income, and we think it is an unsympathetic way of financing such types of tasks. That is why it will be necessary for us to be able to support it, for another funding to be found. So there's also this relationship that we need to clarify about what the real cost is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141656	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141702	Thank you. The proposal here will allow the relatives of terminal patients to receive care leave even if the patient wants to die outside the home. It is very positive that one thinks that one's loved ones need care and care lately. That is certainly relevant. It is therefore also a good thing that the present system allows a family member to receive care leave and care allowances in order to care for a terminal patient who wants to die in his own home. This requires that leave take on the care and care needs which are otherwise provided by the municipality. The care scheme is therefore an alternative to hospice, foster home or the like. You pay a relative to take over the care assignment that the professional staff would otherwise perform. So the proposal here is actually that relatives should receive a remuneration for providing care, which is otherwise provided by the municipality. This basically means that the same care is paid twice. About 80%. Dying outside the home, and this proposal will cost a lot. It is money which, in my view, could be better spent elsewhere, where more money could be made out of, and in this way perhaps a better health system could be provided in other areas. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141836	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141839	Just for the sake of good order: does the rapporteur really believe that care leave for dying people in his own home replaces home care and home nursing, which, moreover, is still normally taking care of all care tasks and home nursing in relation to terminal citizens in his own home, or was it still a proclamation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141902	No, of course there will still be a need for somebody to come to the home and help out clearly but it is instead of having a place in a hospice or in a nursing home where there are of course even more staff. As a relative, you still get away from the nursing home, even if you do it in your spare time. That is why I still believe that there is double payment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516141933	Now the proposal has nothing to do with the care that every dying citizen is entitled to under the law. It is all about me being able as a relative to be present when some of my loved ones leave, as is the case with care leave. So could the rapporteur consider whether it would be a very good idea to be able to propose it, if that is the case that you do not actually have other options?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142006	I think it is very good that relatives are present with their loved ones recently, and today it is the case that if you have relatives at home, you can get a care allowance because it takes more than your relatives, for example. is in a nursing home. If today's system is such that you can get a remuneration because you have your loved ones at home, then it is because you are giving something extra that the government does not then provide in that situation, and that is why I believe that this is a double payment. But I do agree that you have to do what you can to be with your loved ones, and you don't work 2-4-7 hours, you have some free time, and you also have some holiday and some holidays that you have to take if your loved ones don't live at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142104	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no more brief comments and welcome to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142113	Thank you. Thanks to the SF for making the proposal on care leave for relatives of terminal patients who die outside the home. I was a relative of one of my loved ones who was dying, and that was my mother. She wasn't that old, and she died in a hospital. It's hard, it's hard, and it's really tough. I sat in a room at night sitting up and down in a chair and breast-fed my child, who at that time was four months old. It is not very easy to be in such a situation, and there is not as much help to be given if you are standing in a hospital, and you have come into the situation that I was at the time because my mother had a blood clot in the brain, and therefore there was no warning. It was just a matter of showing up and being there, and it may take days, it may take hours, it may take weeks, and it is a few weeks, hours and days that you have to take out of the calendar. Of course you do, but the question is, does it make so much sense to make a difference? Because there is a difference between where the next of kin dies, i.e. whether the next of kin dies in his own home, in a hospital or in a nursing home. For as it is today, the next of kin for terminal patients must, as a starting point, bear expenses or spend holidays and the like if you need to take time off from work to spend the last time, the last hours and days and weeks with your next of kin, if it takes place in an institution, a nursing home, a hospice or in a hospital. So the present system differentiates between where you are, i.e. whether you are in the family's home or outside the family's home. As I said before, the question is how much sense it makes, that it is crucial where the dying person is and that it is what determines whether you can take the time to say goodbye to your next of kin. In fact, more than half of the Danes die while they are in hospital. Elders The case also stresses that when we talk about elderly people, it is not the case that, because you are in a nursing home, you cannot feel alone and that you cannot feel that you need the relatives to take care of you and take care of some practical tasks at the nursing home and at the institutions. And, of course, we must be able to do that without having to have all sorts of concerns about being present. In the alternative, we want us to look at each person's needs and want us not to treat all of us in the same way or on the basis of some standard criteria, that we have codecision on how we should live, and how we should be and what to say about what to do about the last time of our relatives, and that there should be an opportunity to be with our close relatives, without having to worry about the economy. And we do not really see that it makes so much sense that there has to be so much difference whether it is going on in the family's home or whether it is going on in a hospital or a nursing home. That is why, as a starting point, we are positive about the SF's proposals. We are also interested in discussing other solutions that we have just heard from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, in other words that we can talk about caring days or other solutions to this problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142614	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no brief comments and welcome to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142624	Thank you. When I read the SF's motion for a resolution, I didn't really know about the difference here that was whether you can get a care leave or a care allowance, if you care for your relatives at home or if you are with your relatives, when they are either in hospital or at hospice or are somehow outside the home, and I sat down and thought: I wonder why there is this difference here? Of course, the answer is somewhere in the care. It is true that, even if you have child care leave and are caring for and caring for at home, there are still health workers who go to the home. It is clear that everything else equal will be less care when the dying person is in hospital or at a hospice. It was more to understand why there is that distinction today. But, having said that, we radically agree with the SF that the dying and the close have an equal need to be together lately, although it may well be that the care task is not care in a concrete sense, but much more is about conversations, holding hands and creating security, and that is where we too, radically, should also take responsibility as a society for creating that framework. We do not support this specific proposal, but we would like to give an undertaking that we will sit around the table. We would like to take a positive view if we could take a discussion, also in relation to finding some funding when discussing the rate in the autumn, and also find a model that may not just be extending the current model, but find the right model for how we can ensure both the dying, the terminal patient, and the close relatives time and tranquility to be together in the last few days. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142901	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516142914	Thank you to the SF for raising the debate on the possibility of care leave for relatives of terminal patients who want to die outside the home. The idea behind the proposal seems very sympathetic to me, and I recognise the importance of having one's relatives close to him in the last few days and having a dignified end to life. When Conservatives cannot support the proposal here, it is partly because when you are staying in an institution, a nursing home, hospice or hospital, then for 24 hours a day you are surrounded by professional staff, unlike if you are staying in your own home. In your own home you need the relatives around you more to help, care and care, and that is why we have the current care system for this purpose. In addition, the SF proposal here will be a very significant extension of the care scheme, as up to 80%. of all deaths occur outside the home, e.g. in a hospital, a hospice or a foster home. The proposal here would mean an additional cost of up to 400 million. kr. a year. At the same time, employers will be obliged to extend the target group for care leave, which may also pose some enormous challenges. Conservatives cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516143047	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516143056	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for one, I think, mostly good reception of the proposal, which should, of course, make up for the difference in our ability to be free to take care of our dying relatives. After all, we all have to leave here at some point, and for many families the last time is a really important time, both for the dying one, but very much also for those of us who have to stay here a little longer. Many find solutions so that they can be together lately, but more and more people experience that it is difficult to get the ends to reach together when you have to both look after a job and a dying family member. Today it is entirely up to the individual employer to give the necessary freedom. It's not a right you have. I thought it was heartbreaking for me when a porter told me that he had just been called by the hospital in Odense, and that he should come immediately because his father was dying. His dilemma was that his employer had denied him freedom so that he simply could not go. It was just as heartbreaking to meet a social and health worker who had had a care leave for his dying spouse, but now he was transferred to a care centre because it was too difficult to care for him at home. This meant that she had to resume work in the care of the elderly, take care of two very young children and, moreover, be there for her husband for the rest of the time. I promise you, she was worn out. Of course, the proposal is not just about the relatives themselves, because the proposal is also about the security and dignity of the dying citizen. Because nothing is more safe than when it's the nearest family who can be there when we're leaving. It can't be replaced by staff or awake wives. No matter how clever the staff is, they remain in that situation the second best. I also think that we cannot be familiar with this. Several people have mentioned funding as a barrier along the way, and I am, of course, open to looking at other funding options, and I think that we can also look at reduced sickness benefits in this context. Because we know that many people use a report as a solution in the situation. As stated in the proposal, the Minister has assessed on a question that an extension of the scheme would cost around 100 to 200 million. kr., that is less than twice a pool set aside for a dignified death, of 60 million. kr. It's just to put things in perspective. I understand that the Minister now believes that it costs four times as much. I think this calls for a closer analysis and perhaps a closer consideration of what the proposal is really about. Because it's not meant to be a one-to-one translation. Nursing leave for dying in your own home cannot be translated into one for this suggestion, I think. There is very typically a large difference between the time horizon, which applies to care leave for dying in your own home, and the very last time you have in a nursing home or hospice or hospital. I agree that we can both look at the amount of remuneration, and I am also looking at other funding possibilities and dynamic effects, in relation to the fact that many relatives have to register for sickness in order to have the necessary freedom, but first and foremost freedom for me is the important thing. So I hope that there is a lot to be done, and I think that I too am actually listening to there might well be a willingness to continue working on the idea in the Health Committee afterwards, so that neither the porter nor the social and health care provider in the future should be in a similar situation. So I will work to ensure that we may have a report drawn up in committee in order to find a good solution so that we can put relatives on an equal footing so that everyone can be present when our loved ones come from here. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516143450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Would the Minister like to speak now? Okay, that's just because the minister got up and I had to make sure I didn't cheat on the minister to get on the platform. However, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516143512	The debate is open. And now it's the older minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516143533	I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for allowing us to discuss the action taken against relatives of disadvantaged elderly people. It is clear from the motion for a resolution which we are discussing today that it is based on the series of articles published by DenOfpublic.dk in the autumn. Here, among other things, there were: called for a survival guide for relatives to use their meeting with the welfare system when e.g. their parents suffer from illness and weakness. It was also the theme of a consultation that I took part in on 6 January this year, which the SF was also behind, but I am happy to discuss it again, because it is an important issue. As I have said in many contexts, including during the consultation referred to above, I fully recognise that it is a great task to promise when you become a relative of an elderly person who can no longer take care of himself. Many relatives often make great and invaluable efforts when an elderly family member is affected by illness and weakening and can no longer take care of themselves. I think that all of us who have tried to be through it can talk about that. For me, as Minister for the Elderly, it is crucial that relatives of weakened elderly people receive both support for and recognition of the invaluable efforts they are making. The relatives are often the closest partners of the care staff, which is why it is incredibly important that we ensure proper support and relief for the relatives. This is precisely why the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has put aid and support for relatives on the Finance Act for 2018. A total of 60 million has been set aside. kr. Annually to strengthen local authorities' efforts towards families of disadvantaged elderly people. At the same time, we have committed all the municipalities to describe in their dignity policies how the municipalities support the relatives of the weakened elderly. As supporters of local selfgovernment, we have left it to the individual municipality to decide for itself what is locally needed in order to support and relieve the relatives. To stress the importance of local authorities putting relatives on the agenda and strengthening efforts in this area, I sent a letter to all municipalities on 1 February this year. I would point out here that the municipalities, for example: may use their share of the 60 million. kr. to hire family counselors. It was also pointed out that family counsellors can provide relatives with both knowledge and tools to help the best, while helping them to look after themselves better. The new legislation offers a very good opportunity for municipalities, for example. may also choose to draw up a family guide if that is what is needed locally. And, as I said, 60 million have been followed. kr. to the strengthened efforts of the municipalities in this area. I think that is the right way to go, rather than making legislation here at Christiansborg, which imposes a certain model on the municipalities for family support. That is why I do not believe that the motion for a resolution we are debating today is an appropriate way to go, however sympathetic the proposal may sound. The motion for a resolution calls on the municipalities to draw up a fairly comprehensive guide to relatives, which should contain everything from knowledge of the rules of authorization to records of the physician, dentist and other health professionals of each elderly person, as well as of the old person's purchased medicines and medical prescriptions. In my opinion, the proposal envisages both extensive and unnecessary bureaucracy for local authorities in particular, which, with the proposal, is also required to keep up to date all the information contained in the family guide. As Minister for the Elderly, I acknowledge that being a relative of a weakened elderly person can be a burden, but with this proposal, I believe that grey sparrows are being shot with cannons. At the same time, I find it difficult to see that such a bill will not entail significant additional costs for, among others. municipalities. Having said that, I can easily see that it can be a very good idea if, as part of their family efforts, the individual municipality also focuses on counselling and dissemination of e.g. rules and offers of the municipality. For there may be a need as a relative to get help in finding a way in rules and offers. I can see that, among other things. has done in Kolding Municipality, where a new model for family cooperation has been developed together with citizens, relatives, interest groups and professionals in the field. At the same time, the municipality will hire a family guide to help citizens and relatives find offers to suit their needs. A website is even created where offers and bets can be applied for to relatives. It is for me to see a very good example of how local authorities can work out solutions to local needs without dictating a particular model from here. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the Demensalliance has produced a very good family guide, which provides good advice on, among other things. guardianship, proxies, what kind of help and support you can get as a relative, and how to take care of yourself so that you don't burn out and get sick yourself. The family guide also contains advice and guidance in relation to the choice of nursing homes and what is good to be aware of when moving to nursing homes. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have already placed a strong focus on ensuring better support and relief for relatives of weakened elderly people. In addition to the 60 million. kr. Every year, to support local authorities' efforts towards relatives and the description of efforts in dignity policies, I can emphasise that, with the National Dementia Action Plan, we are setting up 13 new counselling centres for people starting with dementia and their relatives, and we have set aside 39 million. kr. for several meaningful day- and relief offers, and that we ensure a nationwide roll-out of the course • LEARN TO TACKLE • targeted relatives of the elderly and people with dementia with the age group in the age group for 2018-2021. In addition, on the basis of the wage-pool agreement in the area of older people, I have tabled Bill No. L 211 about the nursing home overview, which will provide information on and overview of all nursing homes etc., so that elderly people and their relatives can make an informed choice of nursing homes. At the same time, it is worth bearing in mind that the municipal councils are already obliged to provide relief or relief to relatives who care for a weakened elderly person, and the municipalities must at least once a year draw up a quality standard for e.g.: personal and practical help. The quality standard must include general service information to citizens about the help they can expect from the municipality if they need help. Quality standards can be found on the individual municipality's website and are therefore easily accessible, including for relatives. Following on from this, I would like to express some views on the part of the resolution which concerns the development of several state digital solutions that can provide, for example. a relative's mandate for information from e.g. doctor, bank, e-Boks or municipality. Because, in my opinion, we are already well on the front, and if I am going to highlight some of the options, I can mention the legislation of the Ministry of Justice on future powers, which makes it possible to digitally appoint one or more administrators to represent one in economic and personal circumstances in the future, if later in life one loses the ability to take care of one's own circumstances as a result of illness or impaired mental function or the like. In the field of health, citizens today already have the opportunity to give or request digital powers to a medical file, an e-journal, laboratory answers and appointments. There are two very simple ways to get digital authority for a journal from the hospital, for laboratory answers and for appointments via the portal health.dk. You can give a family member authority for your information, and you can request authority for a family member's information. Overall, it is my view, and that of the government, that the tracks we have put forward to strengthen our efforts towards the relatives of weakened elderly people are the right way to go. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144432	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144437	Thank you. Now the Minister mentions a great many examples of what we are already doing in relation to relatives, and it is perhaps in fact the heart of the matter that such people as us, who are familiar with the area and have worked in the area, focus very much on how to support relatives, what they need for some courses that relatives need, and how they can learn how to deal with these situations. But I've been very inspired by this very next of kin, who doesn't really want courses or support, but who asks for a practical guide based on practical experience with all the different things you might need through a course, things that we haven't necessarily thought of: How do I remember that? I have to remember the cpr number I have to ask to get a proxy I have to have access to NemID I need to have electronic communication so I don't have to hang on the phone during all my lunch breaks in the future etc. Doesn't it just make sense, and couldn't it significantly relieve the staff in the care of the elderly if the relatives had access to a do-it-yourself guide?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144553	There is no doubt that it is important that you have some kind of help when you enter the system, but when I look at, as I mentioned, the Demensalliancen, who has a family guide with advice and guidance on how to deal with, for example, relatives. I think we have something there. We also have the Elders Case, which has published the manual • Good to know about rights, opportunities and duties. A great many municipalities, I have experienced, have, for example. employed relatives counsellors. The family members can simply have a personal conversation with them when they need help, and the personal conversation is also infinitely important. And by the fact that we in the government, together with the Danish People's Party, have given the municipalities 60 million. kr. Every year, in the Finance Act for the very next of kin, and at the same time saying that it should also be included in the dignity policies, I think that we are actually doing a very good job. There are great opportunities to find the things mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144707	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144708	Nanna Holst, who has written these many articles on DenOfpublic.dk, mentions precisely things that we have not dealt with at all. Because it is true that we are making sure that there is room for conversations and courses and support, but this is not about the need for support, because it is just one more person to talk to. It is about easy access to general powers, it is about easy access to telephone numbers, it is about easy access to electronic communications and communication at all. So these are quite other practical things that are being asked here. And it's really neither expensive nor difficult, it's just a matter of getting it organized a little more generally. So does the Minister not think that there is one area we have missed anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144800	Actually, I don't think it's overlooked. When, at the same time, 60 million are being sent. kr. Every year to the municipalities, they are also given the guidance that they e.g. It is good to know that many municipalities actually have a family guide where the individual citizen can get help. In addition to that, we also have 13 new centres of advice and activity, which are also places to contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144834	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144836	Thank you. That was exactly the 60 million. kr. I wanted to ask the Minister a few questions about the Finance Act every year, because I have been thinking about this since the press release about where that money had gone. One can almost hear from the Minister here today that the reason why we have not heard any more is that it is simply not money that is being allocated after pool applications, and I just want to hear the Minister confirm that. I think that would actually be gratifying, because part of the criticism we hear so often from the municipalities is that the reason why the money goes to office hours instead of care hours for the elderly is that they are many pools. Then it is well understood that the money, the 60 million. kr. to relatives, are given to the municipalities directly without pool application with all that follows? If that is really understood, it is really nice and welcome, and then I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is after the block grant key, or whether it is after the demographic key, that the money is then distributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144935	Yes, that is quite correct. The money is given directly through the block grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144949	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516144950	When I ask whether they are given according to the block grant key or the demographic distribution key, it is because there are media that have previously looked at how the money the government gave the municipalities to the elderly was actually distributed, compared to how many older citizens the different municipalities have. And here, unfortunately, one could see a very big distortion, because the municipalities that have the worst economy, and which lie in what we typically call Udkantsdanmark or Vandkansdanmark, or whatever we call it, where there is a weak economy and many older people, received significantly less money per year. older citizens than some of the wealthier municipalities in the Copenhagen area and north of Copenhagen etc. And that's why it's a little interesting to know for 60 million. kr. is not much distributed in 98 municipalities • how the money has then been distributed to the municipalities. But I understand from the Minister that no account has been taken of the distribution of that money by the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145047	They are distributed through the block grant, and at the same time a shepherd letter has been sent out stating that we are very happy to recommend, for example. Residency counselors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145105	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145122	Thank you for the floor, but first of all thank you to the SF for putting a very important issue on the agenda, namely the question of how we are better at helping those who help our elderly and weakened fellow citizens navigate the welfare society. Because it's not always an easy matter to find your way around. One can easily feel that one gets lost in the systems that should help and that do not talk properly, where common sense seems lost somewhere on the road, and where the main focus, the focus of the citizen with help needs, has disappeared in the spreadsheets. Sadly, this is how many relatives today experience the meeting with the care of the elderly and the health care system and the intersection between the two. And then you almost dare not think about, when the relatives experience it, how it is then experienced by the elderly, weakened citizens. For us in the Social Democratic Party, one of the most important things in our welfare society is to be able to grow old in security, that there is proper care for the elderly for one, when one can no longer cope with oneself, that there is an elderly care where one can grow old with dignity and with as much self-determination as possible, a care for the elderly, where one does not have to go through an obstacle race to reach aid. But it's not reality everywhere. Nanna Holst's descriptions of her experiences as a relative are unfortunately just an example of that. There are countless others. However, the meeting between citizens and the welfare society must be more on the basis of the citizens and, in particular, when we talk about older, weakened people. Then it is very much about ensuring that there is better access for relatives to support and help. There are several places to grab. First of all, we must do something about too much pressure on elderly care. The visit to home help has become too tight in many places. The large drop we have seen in the number of visited home help hours over recent years cannot be explained merely by the fact that the elderly have become more healthy and healthy than before. The waiting time for a foster home exceeds in many places the guarantee of 2 months, and since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, more than 2,300 employees have been cut away in the care of the elderly. During the same period, the number of elderly people has increased. It is therefore no wonder that the relatives experience a welfare society that does not have time for them or that they do not experience a welfare society that has time to look at its own procedures and workflows. Because as it looks today, there is just barely enough time to help those who have help needs. That is why the Social Democratic Party has also proposed here in the Folketing a welfare pact, in which we give each other a hand to ensure that the money for our welfare should follow when we grow older and more children. Secondly, there is a need for a change of direction in the care of the elderly, yes, in fact throughout the public sector, a change of direction in which, instead of managing the welfare institutions, we politicians take a step backwards in the smallest detail and give room for the professionalism of the employees. We in the Social Democratic Party call that a change of direction. We will do away with process rules and documentation requirements and controls that prevent employees from actually using the professionalism they have taken years of training to acquire, so that the focus in the public sector stays on people rather than on spreadsheets, on presence and care, so that relationships between people can get space. More common sense, as Nanna Holst would express it. Thirdly, we need a completely new view of the resources of relatives. In many places we are already working hard to involve our relatives and to create good cooperation. After all, the Minister examined some very good examples of this. But we must bring everyone with us, because it is a huge resource and help that the elderly can benefit greatly, but which will be lost if the relatives have to spend all their time just finding their way around the system. With the motion for a resolution here, the SF proposes that a family guide be drawn up by the individual municipalities. We are very open to discussing it. Nanna Holst's family guide, to which SF refers, is a good starting point, not for us here in the Danish Parliament to legislate, but for municipalities and regions to be inspired by. But we probably also think that some fundamental changes are needed to the system itself, so that it becomes easier and less stressful to be relatives. A lot of relatives end up going down on their own, because the next of kin's job is getting too violent. So with regard to the specific motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, we are very much in favour of discussing the proposal on the relatives' guide, but we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution because there is no provision for funding. And we simply do not share the SF's assessment that we can require municipalities to draw up detailed relatives' guides according to national guidelines without also having financial compensation. Then we mean beyond that, that we might also have to dig a spade stick deeper, and I would very much like to be a part of that. I hope that the Folketing will support the SF in that ambition. In particular, I hope that the government will take up the glove and go ahead with the concrete proposals on things where it has to be said that the arrow points to the government, to the Minister for the Elderly, perhaps to the Minister for Innovation, when it comes to some of the various digital systems, where you can really run your forehead against a wall as a relative. However, thank you for raising the debate to the SF, thank you for the Minister's reply, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145617	And thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516145627	I would like to start by thanking the proposer for the proposal. With the proposal, the SF will provide better information for relatives of weakened elderly people. I think that it is not only weakened older people that we are dealing with, it may be a middle-aged person who suddenly gets sick, suffers from a blood clot in the brain, starting dementia or other things that make him more or less disabled or ill, and then it is a jungle to find around both the community's help and the state's help. I am often met by relatives of either demented or citizens who have had strokes that tell me that it was really, really difficult, took a really long time, for example. just to get through to SKAT or to access your bank or to health.dk, or whatever it might be. Today everything has to be digital, something that DF has fought against for a long time and that we have fought for it to be able to escape, because many times there is an incredible amount of information, and it is really difficult if you have not given a mandate to access it in advance. But to know at all what it is that one should be concerned with, who one should turn to, one should of course make much more of. The question is, of course, where the obligation lies. I actually think there's a lot in here that you could do from in here with an information booklet about who to contact. Of course, there is also something out there in the municipality, and I think that many municipalities have most of it on their websites or in other material that you send out, but definitely how to move in is difficult. I think there is something in the SF's proposal that cannot be done, for example. is an overview of elderly doctors, health professionals, physiotherapist or the purchase of medicine after all something that must lie in health.dk, so it must be access to health.dk that you need, and it must be from in here that we find out how to do it better. Or are we going to give even better information about future powers, or are we going to make sure that as a relative you can come in when you suddenly suffer from family disease? So we are very positive about doing something in this area, because there are just too many people beating their heads against a wall. Many times they have also come into a difficult economic situation because they have not been able to get in to solve some of these tasks. I therefore believe that it is very important that we also have guidelines in the municipalities that are very similar, so I think that instead of starting to tell the municipality that they now have to make their own, perhaps we should look at how we can make it easier with legislation in connection with this future power of legislation that we can go in to make sure. We must also remember that, because we are not immortal either, we can also be affected by disease that makes us happy, and then it is our relatives who are facing the problems of not being able to get into our records, into our bank, or whatever it may be. So I would very much like to work further on the proposal, as we think that the SF has hit some very good points in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150041	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150049	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution by the SF, which has a desire to oblige municipalities to draw up a family guide. The proposal arises from a family member's • Nanna Holst • historians whose mother is demented, and their meeting with the local municipality for good and bad. Nanna's story touched me a lot when I read it, and I have a great understanding of the frustration expressed by Nanna and other relatives of demented people. A dementia diagnosis hurts both the individual and the family, and there are many things to consider when the diagnosis is made. The human being we have known all our lives or for years will slowly drift away from us. Daily to-dos, which used to be routine, eventually become major challenges. A few years ago, I hosted a walk and talk event with my local Alzheimer' s Association. What struck me was that almost all relatives had a strong desire for relief, and several seemed almost burned out, and many said that life as a relative of a dement is often a rather lonely life. For it is a great task to take care of a demented spouse 24-7 365 days a year. There must be room and space in our society for you as a relative to be relieved either for a few hours a week, so for example. can continue with a leisure activity, or for one or more days, if you want to e.g. to go to a confirmation on the other side of the country. And I am both proud and pleased that we have already taken a number of initiatives together, and let me mention a few: with the National Dementia Action Plan, together we have set aside 761⁄2 million in the movement pool. kr. for e.g. to set up 13 new counselling centres for people with dementia and their relatives. Several day and time off offers can make a difference to the next of kin. Because it is not acceptable for you to forget yourself in your zeal to care for your demented mother or father or spouse. That is why we in the Left are sincerely pleased that we could also agree in the movement pool to allocate funds to roll-out the course • Learn how to tackle the course. Several years ago, I took part in a Learn to tackle course in relation to mentally vulnerable people and was impressed by the approach that the participants met with, but also the many tools that you get in your hand to learn how to tackle everyday life, so that from day one can be on the way in a new and better direction. The concept is the same in relation to relatives. Dementia has rightly filled a lot in the political landscape in recent years, but we must not forget that there are other diseases that challenge both the individual and the relative of a sick person. Every day, many municipalities and local authorities are making huge efforts to take care of our vulnerable citizens. It is in the Service Act that the necessary care and care must be provided in the municipalities. For more than ten years I have been a municipal politician, and from my time in municipal politics I know that among other things. quality standards are an important tool for example. to provide citizens with information on what to expect in relation to the defined level of service. But here at Christiansborg, we have taken the initiative, together with the Danish People's Party, to help the municipalities with an economic help of 60 million. kr. to strengthen efforts for weakened elderly people and their relatives. In her article, Nanna Holst describes some of the challenges you can face when choosing your last home, a nursing home. It is and remains a big and important decision, and many questions often arise, for you have to stay in your home community, where you may have lived for many years, or you have to take the jump and move closer to children and grandchildren, and how to find the right nursing home, a new home that suits the person you are, and the everyday life that you want to live the last important years of your life. As recently as 12 April, we first dealt with a legislative proposal in this Chamber, which is intended to make it easier for the elderly and their relatives to choose the right accommodation. The nursing home overview is intended to provide both the elderly and the relatives with information on the wide range of nursing homes and homes available in the country. And now that we are on the digital stage, SF also proposes that more digital solutions be developed that can give relatives access to or mandate after consenting to information on e.g. doctor or e-Boks. And that's kind of the right thing to think about. That is why I would like to highlight the powers of the future, which we already have today and which will only come into force if one day one is not in a state where one can take care of oneself or manage oneself and deal with one's practicalities. If we in the Left do not support the proposal here, it is because, as I have already mentioned, many initiatives have been taken which, overall, should meet the needs that the SF also points to, and I have not even mentioned all initiatives. I could, for example. have also chosen to dwell a little on the dignity billionaire and the obligation to get the municipalities to describe how to support weakened elderly people. SF points out that the proposal is cost-neutral. We in the Left do not agree with that assessment, as everything else is equally imposed on the municipalities a task to be solved. The Left cannot support the proposal presented by the SF, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party to say that it is not possible to support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150606	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150613	Thank you for that, President. We have here a motion for a resolution from the SF which contains two points: firstly, that the government should require the municipalities to make written instructions to make it easier to be relatives; secondly, that it may be relatives of weakened elderly people or sick people; and thirdly, that the government should be required to draw up some more state IT solutions which make it easier for the relatives to be authorized on behalf of, for example, dementes to whom they are related. It is absolutely necessary for relatives to have better opportunities to help the elderly to whom they are related, or the sick to whom they are related. Today, older people live in their own homes for a long time, which is why it is often up to the relatives to make everyday life work when the older person is not able to do the job himself. It is a hard task and a time-consuming task that many relatives describe as getting an extra job. And it will certainly not be easier when many people experience, for example. It's about your parents that they live far away. Older People The case has also examined the burden of becoming a relative and it is obvious that more support and guidance is needed. Several speakers in this debate have also referred to the debates written by Nanna Holst on DenOfpublic.dk, who has told how she has experienced being a relative. So there is no doubt that this is a problem that many people experience and know about. Concrete instructions describing who to call to get help with the elderly, when to be taken, what is expected, etc. are important information that you need when you are a relative, and it may be a bit of a jungle to find out. The municipalities have these cases every day, but for someone who's become a relative, this could be the first time you have to find your way around this. And that is why I think that, in such a process, where you as a municipality have to describe how the system works, it can be an eye-opener for the administration to know how difficult it is to find a way around, which might in itself lead to better processes, for example. It seems obvious that it is necessary to take account of the fact that a relative cannot come at an hour's notice from one end of the country to the other because, for example, there is a risk that he will not be able to do so. has become a bed available, or because there is a place where you suddenly have to jump to. Having said that, I also think there are some elements in the proposal which are somewhat unfinished. SF mentions e.g. even that the proposal does not take into account the consequences that may be for individual legal certainty in relation to data protection and other practical problems. And that is why there is certainly a need for us to work on this proposal a little further. And perhaps I am hurt by the fact that I have been in here for too long, but I do not quite believe that we can get away with saying that there is no cost to the proposal, but in that case it is enough of a limited amount that should be dealt with. However, once those things have been clarified, I believe that there will be good opportunities for Enhedslisten to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150932	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516150941	Thank you. The resolution is about providing guidance and information for the relatives of sick and elderly weakened fellow citizens. This is an important issue and it is good to have the opportunity here in the Parliament to discuss the work with the relatives. In the Liberal Alliance we welcome the fact that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has set aside 60 million. kr. Annually on the 2018 Finance Act to strengthen municipalities' efforts towards relatives of weakened elderly people. We think it makes sense to leave it up to the individual municipality to decide locally how best to support and relieve the relatives. At the same time, this also means that if the individual municipality wants to use the funds to draw up such a family guide as the proposers propose, it must be free from them. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that it is the way forward to oblige municipalities to provide a family guide. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151104	We have always, as people, taken care of those we care about, those who are close to us. As I said, this is a very humane thing, and so do we today. In Denmark there are 750,000 relatives who make an important contribution by helping weakened or ill family members. Relatives we call them, and they can also be called the involuntary volunteers, as they of course help because it is some of their loved ones who need help, and because it means that weakened elderly people can sustain a dignified and meaningful life. Many municipalities have a family policy, and some municipalities also have a family coordinator, but it is often difficult to be relatives. It's hard when your loved ones get weakened and become obsessive. There are many things that the relatives have to take care of, because of course they feel a great responsibility for their loved ones. Nor do many relatives feel that they are recognised and involved and supported in their efforts. Therefore, in the alternative, we agree with the SF in the intention of the proposal that there should be guidance and information for the relatives of sick and elderly weakened fellow citizens and that we should support the relatives. In the alternative, we think it is important that we focus on the relatives and that we ensure better conditions for them. This applies not only to this group, but to all relatives. Therefore, we are also happy and satisfied with the way we have heard so far that we have put some activities in the lake in connection with the Dementia Trade Plan, which is about supporting and relieving the relatives. So I would say that we are positive about the proposal. As several speakers have said today, we need to find out how this can be put into practice in practice and whether it should be part of a wagering pool debate or how we can proceed with this proposal. In any case, we think that we should continue to work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151407	Thank you. Thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. It is very important, and it is very good that we look to the relatives, and we must do this much more by the public authorities. No human being is an island. Man is not alone; we are not living alone, we are always to some extent surrounded by some relatives. This means that when a person is affected by illness, it also affects the relatives. And the next of kin must provide security for the sick, but the next of kin also needs to be safe. Therefore, the public must become better at seeing man as a whole, that is, including the relatives. What we have radically opposed to this proposal is that somehow you think we can solve this problem with a law from Christiansborg. I am quite convinced that all the many elected representatives in the country's municipalities are elected, just as we are in here; we are from the same parties; we share everything we have stood and debated here today; they share the intention that proper family initiatives should be made even better. That is why we are simply opposed to Christiansborg's having to legislate for the municipalities to draw up a special guide. We simply believe that the municipalities themselves can do that. Otherwise, of course, we must draw our elected colleagues' attention to this discussion. On the other hand, we radically agree that it is a very good idea with several state digital solutions that can give relatives the opportunity to get authority for their relatives' information. However, as described in this motion for a resolution, it is still too unconcrete for us to vote in favour, but we would like to give an undertaking that we would like to take part in this debate. Because it makes very good sense, and that is why it will be a discussion that belongs here in the Folketing. So, overall, we cannot support the proposal, but we fully share the intention of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151644	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516151653	Thank you for a fine reception of the intentions in the proposal. That's right, it might be a little difficult to understand what we're really talking about. We are used to thinking support for relatives in a very certain way, but here it is actually a relative himself who, on the basis of practical experience, expresses what she has come across from problems during the time she has had to give some help. That is another way of thinking support for relatives than what we normally think. I wonder if we can all agree that when we grow older and older, it also requires a great deal of commitment from the family and the need for the family to be present. By the way, I think most families would like to be. It is therefore also good that relatives are a focus area in general in the Ministry of the Elderly. That's what we need. However, the efforts have primarily been targeted precisely by relatives who live with the citizen who needs help, and perhaps not so much targeted parents or help for adult children who, as many have already said, sometimes live far away. For one thing is getting older and having trouble understanding everyday life. Another thing is that, in this situation, we must also deal with a great deal of administration that has never been encountered before. You just need to send an application to... Yes, there are a lot of people who can get to send an application, from food scheme to shopping scheme, to foot therapist, to help with training, to aids, to medical and hospital studies, to pensions and grants for medications and new bills to be paid, and much else that becomes something new in the everyday life of the citizen who suddenly becomes dependent on some help. The rules are often different from municipality to municipality, and it is certainly far from everything that happens digitally. That means everything else just waiting on the phone one morning after another. I think that many people may be wandering around in this delusion, that all of this is something that home care staff care for. Right must be right, so they do when there is no one else to help. But it is often the relatives in whom the citizen has the most confidence, and it is often the relatives who know the citizen's economy, know what the citizen usually has in the refrigerator, etc. For example, if you could create a common template for a general mandate, you could get a permanent contact person in home care, a gatekeeper; more discussions could take place electronically to avoid long waiting times on the phone; you could plan better or e.g. If the new aids involve, for example, moving a bed, which some rapporteurs have also mentioned; if you could draw up lists of who the citizen is in contact with and who comes to the home, you could make a list of things you need as a relative, such as: Social security number, telephone numbers, etc.? It was a family member who wrote a proposal based on many months of practical experience. Nanna Holst's own practical experience can form the basis for some framework that we in the Danish Parliament must set out if it is the case that we really have to relieve relatives. I think it is important that we remember that we should not be known by what we think we should know by what we are actually able to decide. I have listened to the fact that there is, after all, a positive spirit in getting a further discussion in committee about whether we can get more focus on help for relatives who do not live with the citizen and who do not need courses, do not need guidance and guides and all the other things that we have set in motion, but as such just need a practical guide, some telephone numbers, some email addresses and an opportunity to communicate in other ways to carry out some of the very many administrative tasks that you encounter when you need home care. So I hope that we can have a further discussion in the Committee on Options to Solve Nanna Holst's Problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152117	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152133	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152151	Thank you. The draft law amending the law on the carriage of goods introduces a licensing system for goods vehicles weighing more than 2 000 kg and carrying out goods transport on a foreign basis with goods weighing more than 11 kg per tonne. piece goods. This is a draft law which has had a rather unusual development, and that is why I would like to begin by explaining the background to the draft law. The starting point for the bill is motion for a resolution B 165, adopted on 31 May 2016 by a majority of the Folketing consisting of the parties Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative. On the basis of the resolution adopted, the then Minister for Transport and Building set up the so-called Varebil Committee, which was given the task of looking at possible new regulation of goods vehicles carrying out goods transport on a foreign account. However, as indicated by the recommendations, the members of the Vareil Committee could not agree on their recommendations in June 2017. Very briefly, the positions in the committee were distributed in such a way that one faction recommended the introduction of an authorisation system when it was claimed that an authorisation system would have a preventive effect and lead to professionalisation of the industry. Another faction of the committee, on the other hand, was unable to recommend an authorisation system, claiming that it cannot be demonstrated that an authorisation system would have the positive effects, as the motion for a resolution claims, of combating undeclared work, social fraud and illegal labour. On the contrary, it was pointed out that a licensing system would first and foremost hit a lot of law-abiding companies with administrative and financial burdens which do not match the results obtained by an authorisation system. Nevertheless, a majority in the Folketing has chosen to maintain the ambition of introducing a licensing system for goods transport on a foreign basis in commercial vehicles, and that is in short why we are discussing this bill today. It is no secret that I and the rest of the government are opposed to this bill, and there are a number of good reasons for that. This is a legislative proposal which will impose disproportionate financial and administrative burdens on business. My ministry, together with the Danish Business Authority, has carried out a detailed survey of the so-called economic consequences. This survey shows that overall conversion costs will be between 60 and 70 million. kr., i.e. costs which affect the companies that currently use vans for business or road transport at a foreign expense. In addition, the industry will have current annual costs of approx. 3.2 million kr., which hits the companies that arise on a continuous basis. In addition, the proposed authorisation system goes far beyond what the EU rules in this area require. In other words, the scheme would put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared with foreign competitors. If I am to act for a moment as the devil's lawyer and put myself in the place of the proposers, one can argue that all this can be an o.k. the cost of paying if an authorisation system strengthens the fight against social dumping, undeclared work and illegal labour. This brings me to one more reason why the government does not support this draft law. The problem is that the bill is not a particularly suitable tool for that fight. As you know, undeclared work and social dumping are illegal to this day, and these areas are basically regulated quite elsewhere than in the goods traffic law. In practice, checks are carried out by spot checks and road checks in a joint cooperation between the police, the SKAT and the Danish Building and Housing Authority. In short, an authorisation system will have no impact on the ability of the police and the SKAT to carry out their controls, which is why I believe that it is at best doubtful whether the legislative proposal will meet the alleged objectives of regulation. Having said all this, however, there should be no doubt that I fully respect the fact that a majority in the Danish Parliament has a different position and a desire for a licensing system for goods vehicles to be introduced into the Road Transport Act. Despite the fact that the government is fundamentally opposed to the proposed regulation, I have had no desire to oppose the creation of the bill, which a majority is in favour of. On the contrary, I have made available to my ministry, which has loyally and constructively drafted a draft legislative proposal in accordance with the wishes that I have received from the parties which support the scheme and which keep water purely legally. I would also like to stress that the draft law before us does not represent a compromise or a result of a debate between the government and the opposition, in which the government has subsequently left its responsibilities by not making the legislative proposal itself, as history has otherwise been told in certain media. On the contrary, I would say that it was the most natural solution that the draft law was put forward by the parties that actually support the draft law and that we others, who do not support it, do not put forward the legislative proposal or vote in favour of it either. It is a clear division of responsibilities so that the electorate can see when the consequences of this bill turn out that it is the parties that have tabled the bill and voted in favour of the bill that are responsible for it and that the parties that have not tabled the bill and did not vote for it do not have the blame for what is being adopted here. However, although the government does not support the bill, I would like to state that the Ministry will, of course, make itself available with technical assistance if this proves necessary during the parliamentary procedure. Summing up and concluding, I would like to say that the government cannot, of course, support the proposed legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152811	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152816	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. As to whether changing ministers have been constructive and supportive in relation to the process, it is surprising that two years have passed since the government came into the minority on the resolution until we can actually adopt something. I think that time bucket says a lot about the extent to which the government has been constructive. But I am glad that today, after all, we can make a difference against social dumping. If you do a search on Google, or if you talk to 3F, DTL and others, you can quickly form a picture of what the conditions in the van industry are like. It is an industry with a high number of bankruptcies; it is an industry which has repeatedly been involved in hiring and employing people who do not have a residence permit in Denmark; it is an industry which is burdened with social fraud of various kinds, including: in the form of having people employed who work while receiving other public services. Does the Minister think that this is a problem and if the Minister thinks it is a problem, to what extent does the Minister want to tackle the challenges that I think are reasonably obvious in the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516152932	First of all, on whether the government has been constructive in dealing with the parliamentary majority resolution, I would like to say that I understand it in this way. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that he has nothing to do with me as a minister, since I have, of course, ensured that a proposal was made for a law which the parties could put forward and that I have done it to the best of my ability to get a legislative proposal that will work in reality, for which the parties can then table and vote, so that it can be adopted. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's dispute with my predecessor may Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen go with my predecessor. The concerns, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen speaks of combating undeclared work, illegal work, etc., I fully support it. However, as I said in my speech, I do not believe that this bill will make it happen. This bill will primarily bother the companies that operate legally and well today and the newcomers that will come in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153029	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153030	We've had the discussion in the Ministry, and I don't think we should bore the Danes with it. I believe that we have reached an agreement from which the government has withdrawn, and the Minister has explained that this is not the Minister's view, so let us land it on the fact that we have a professional disagreement about the progress. If the Minister thinks that the conditions in terms of social dumping, the use of illegal labour and the like are a problem... which I hear the Minister very clearly confirm that he thinks it is... but does not believe that this bill helps to solve the problem... what does the Minister have in mind in terms of solving the problem that we agree to exist in the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153112	Well, it is not me who is responsible for either the police or the SKAT, and that is why I am not the right person to ask what the police or the SKAT should do to combat the illegal practices that are taking place. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Taxation must be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153126	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153127	I think that is perhaps a little too easy to come by pointing out that it must be other ministers and in other areas. Basically, I cannot understand why the Minister does not think that there should be proper conditions in this industry, in the sense that the measures we are now making with this bill are, so to speak, revenants from the road haulage law and, in general, from what applies to cars and vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. Therefore, I cannot quite understand why it should not work for vehicles up to 2 tonnes, i.e. for vans. In my opinion, the Minister owes us an explanation for this unless we do not recognise that there are the problems in the sector, with undeclared work, illegal labour, social fraud, wage dumping, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153230	I believe that there must be fixed conditions in all sectors. But it does not follow from this that I believe that there should be licensing schemes in all sectors. I do not think that there should be licensing systems in sectors where there are no permit systems today, because I do not believe that these licensing systems work. And this licensing system will not solve the problem that Mr. Henning Hyllested outlines. The permit system for the carriage of goods comes from ancient times, and we have it from ancient times. It has set some standards for how things are going in that industry. I do not know whether we had invented the licensing system today, because when it was invented it was at a time when we did not have rest-time rules, etc. It was the case that you had to have an agreement to be allowed to drive, and then the agreement regulated driving-rest-time and the like. But if you'd done it today, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153329	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153331	In other words, there is almost the Minister's answer here that we can expect what, I know, is being proposed that the licensing system should be abolished, including for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. If you do not think it works for vans and I also think that the argument put forward by the Minister suggested that it was not certain, it was something historic, and it was not certain that, if you had to do so today, you would operate licensing schemes. I think that this is a very interesting point of view which, in my opinion, does not provide an answer to the question as to why the conditions for lorries over 3.5 tonnes or for that part of the freight industry when you drive at a foreign expense should not also apply to vehicles under 3.5 tonnes and thus down to 2 tonnes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153423	I do not want to remove the authorisation system for the carriage of goods on the basis of the principle that if it is not broken, you do not have to fix it. After all, nothing seems to be broken here, and that market has found the right balance, and in that balance the goods transport law has a role to play, and there is absolutely no need to change that. But we don't have to invent anything new. Just because we are doing something in one place, we should not necessarily do so everywhere else if it serves no purpose and, as I have said in my speech, the purpose which the authors of the motion for a resolution envisage in order to combat undeclared work and social dumping and illegal practices in general with a licensing system for goods vehicles is no reason to assume that we can do so. However, we are going to be bothering those who are operating legally today and we are going to prevent new driving arrangements and new delivery systems such as this. Mover can be here today, and thus you will put an end to the fact that there can be a partial economic development in Denmark, where you take advantage of the fact that there are resources left over to deliver a product for the benefit of both the economy and the environment. But apparently Enhedslisten doesn't care about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153527	Thank you. The next one is sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153531	I can tell you that the Danish People's Party also is. But what I really want to ask you is that the Minister is almost ashamed of himself for having helped bring this bill forward. I recognise that we have had good assistance from the Ministry, and we have also spent a few years on it. We have agreed that various committees were set up, which could probably be concluded in advance, never agreed on anything, because everything was gathered from all the extremes of this industry. So you could almost say that yourself. But I think it's pretty violent when the Minister is practically praising himself. I hope, then, that the Minister will respect the future that if a majority in this House instructs a minister to table a bill, he will have to do so. Then I acknowledge that it was a former Left Government, but this extended four-leaf or three-and-a-half-clover government, or how much it is now so little back and forth, what it is well to say, also feel a little obliged by the legacy that was over in the Ministry of Transport. And I would just like to know if the Minister does not think that this was really just missing, and then we have not even done what we had to do, namely put it forward here. We have been asked to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153649	Sir. Kim Christiansen mentions that this has been going on for two years and, as you know, I have only been a minister for over a year. So I cannot take responsibility for what has happened in a previous government where I was not a minister. Was it not in agreement with the parties in some way that this committee was set up? Didn't you agree on that? Then, of course, the majority could have done something serious to the Minister if we did not agree on it. I guess when you were.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153718	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153719	Yes, we nodded yes to it, but perhaps it was also in some expectation that we could have landed a broad agreement on this. It turned out to be a game for the gallery, that at some point the government showed positive intentions to go along with this. So it didn't happen, and I haven't forgotten how long mr. Ole Birk Olesen has served as minister. But that is also why I said that you have to be a little bit committed to inheritance and debt when you take over a ministry, and this was then part of the legacy. In the future, I only hope that if the Minister should come to the point where a majority requires the Minister to table a legislative proposal, then he will also do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153800	I've done what was expected of me. When I became a minister and I found out that there was a majority in the Folketing which, under my predecessor, had adopted a resolution and now actually expected something to happen, I set in motion a series of meetings where I and my officials met that majority and we talked about what the majority wanted and how it could be met with a legislative proposal that could work in reality. That work was done as quickly as it could at all and with a promise that we would probably have a legislative proposal that could be put forward and adopted before the summer holidays, and that is what has been delivered on now. It can be said that I do not have to praise myself, because that is something to be expected of a minister, and I agree with that. But it is just because I have been accused that it has taken too long and that it has been unconstructive, and then I have to answer, and I actually think it has been quite constructive in my time as minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153852	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153853	I heard from the minister that he recognizes that there are major challenges in this industry. This is both against illegal labour and against tax evasion. What surprised me was not that recognition, because it is quite obvious and also acknowledged by other ministers in former bourgeois governments, that is to say that we are dealing here with an industry which can be a rather messy store. What really surprises me is that the Minister is simply referring to some other ministers and saying that if there is a problem with the tax payment, we need to talk to the tax minister. But what I would like to ask is: what will the Minister of Transport do? After all, this is legislation under the Ministry of Transport. What will the Minister of Transport do to clean up an industry that belongs to this minister's area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516153942	In fact, it is not for the Minister of Transport to ensure that transport companies pay taxes. Nor is it the responsibility of the Minister for Food to ensure that agriculture pays taxes. It is not for the Minister of Industry to make sure that the industry pays taxes. It is the task of the Minister of Taxation to ensure that the tax rules are observed and enforced. That's actually the way it is. Tax legislation does not fall under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154009	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154010	No, I think most people are aware that we have different ministries. Perhaps I would just like to ask the Minister of Transport what the Minister of Transport is going to do about an area which is clearly undermining, among other things. tax payments and also other things relating to illegal labour. I mean, is the Minister doing anything other than expecting the other ministries to take it up themselves, or is the Minister taking an initiative with his colleagues, or can we expect something from the government? Or is it true that the Minister of Transport is just letting go? That may be true, but I'm just a little disappointed in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154044	There are some companies in all sectors that do not pay taxes. It is not only in the transport sector that there are companies that do not pay taxes. Tax collection is handled by SKAT, and illegalities, which come from other legislation, are handled by the police. The tasks of a government are now distributed in such a way that it is the ministers who have the areas to which it relates that deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154117	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154121	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and the good answers to the questions. I can understand the Minister's argument. I am a little curious when the Minister has drafted this bill, where, in the Minister's view, it could be improved, so that we were all happy and supported it, rather than talking down, that we have actually now established some legislation to deal with a problem that is in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154158	This is unlikely to improve significantly. Now, of course, there is a process going on and so on, and there may be some consultation answers about what it should be like. This is a political point of departure which I and the government disagreed with, just as if there were a draft law on something that the Alternative disagreed with, so simply politically disagreed, and then the Alternative was asked how to change some rules and such things, so that the Alternative thought it was a good bill. No, you can't. Now I see that the alternative helped to make this resolution, and I think it is a little strange if the alternative also votes for this, which will prevent bricklayers from operating for the benefit of resource consumption in society. Then it is entirely in the opposite direction to the line normally taken by the Alternative, where all legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament are asked about how they affect the environment. This bill will have a negative impact on the environment because it will prevent new sharing services using available resources to transport goods. So it would certainly be contrary to the normal policy of the alternative if we voted in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154312	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154314	Thank you for reminding us what we stand for. We've got three bottom lines we're holding up every bill. You talk about environmental issues, and then we have the social issue, which is that we have to take care of people, take care of social dumping, and we have to deal with the fact that we have a community of values together and a solidarity with society where we should not cheat on this. So the consultation answers: are they critical? For example, has a de minimis limit been mentioned? What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154344	Yeah, yeah, but the higher a small limit, the better. And if you could make such a low limit that the bill had no effect at all, then it would be best.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154353	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154421	This has been a very, very long time along the way, and that is why it is of course pleasing to the parties who have repeatedly put it forward in this Chamber in various constellations, but in a number of resolutions, to end some of the cheating that is in the transport industry. I could understand from the Minister that this would entail high costs for business, at least parts of industry. If so, this could be in the form of increased tax payments. But that's not a cost. It is, of course, because you have earned some money that you then pay taxes on, like all other people, and thus compete on equal terms. I should like to acknowledge that it can be a little more expensive to follow the rules. But why the hell should some people fail to follow the rules and save a little money and create unfair competition, since the majority now abide by the rules and bear the costs associated with complying with the rules of driver training etc. etc.? Here we are dealing with an industry which has been deeply pervaded by the fact that you could go online, buy an old truck or van under 3,500 kg, which might not be very roadworthy, but probably the sight, and then you could paint Rocket mail on the side, or whatever you might think of, get a CVR number and then by the way avoid social benefits, and what else you can feed yourself, lie and drive cargo in foreign expense to far, far below what others take. We have examples of as low as 60 kroner. It's an hour to drive these services around. So you have to either cheat on taxes or have other income next door. What may surprise me is that when Danish Industry etc. 'Cause then they keep looking right in their back pockets and saying this could cost a little bit of money. And then I return: Yes, it's probably a little more expensive to follow the rules than to cheat on the weight. I recognize that. But, as I said, we have been through a long process. I now hope that, in spite of everything, a majority here in the Danish Parliament is going through this, and then I have heard that there should be a little in relation to the date of entry into force and something like that, and we are, of course, willing to discuss this. This has to be done right, and it has to be done properly, and it will be. The Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154718	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154722	Thank you. This is, of course, a draft law which is exceptionally proposed outside the government, and the Left is also one of the parties which are not co-sponsors of it. I think, sir. Kim Christiansen used the phrase that the majority in the industry adheres to the rules. It must be understood that then there are some stumbled vessels that cheat and skip over where the fence is lowest, thereby obtaining some competitive advantages. That's how far we agree. But that means that when some people cheat on the weight, it must be a control problem, in other words a question of inadequate control, and that is why I should like to ask Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen, why Dansk Folkeparti believes that new rules solve the problem. 'Cause it's gonna hit all the law-abiding people. New rules are, after all, a form of collective punishment, one might say that they also affect law-abiding people. Why should we do so when the problem is actually a lack of control over those who cheat on the weight?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154819	The problem has been that there has been nothing to control in relation to cars under 3,500 kg. There haven't been any rules. That is why we want there to be a regulatory framework that says how to act if you want to drive freight at foreign expense with cars under 3,500 kg, and you have to use cars over 3,500 kg in terms of driver training, equity, water quality, etc., so we are sure that it is not just criminals who are driving around on the roads with these services. So the prerequisite for being able to control something is that there is a set of rules on which control can be built. That is now there, and we hope, of course, that the bodies responsible for it and that is both the SKAT and the police, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154909	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154911	Fair enough, but as others have said, the problem today is that it may be a lack of control over tax payments, or that it may be that some are doing social dumping, which is also illegal, according to other legislation. So I think the problem is that it doesn't really hit the dial. I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party what you think of it when this legislation is implemented, so that it is still possible to have a company in Flensburg that sends up an army of vans in Denmark, which then drives this cargo at a foreign expense. But they are not Danish drivers, and they are not subject to Danish rules at all. Fears Mr. Kim Christiansen not that we get a lot of German cars to see in Denmark when this is introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516154951	Yes, we can fear that, just as we can with regard to the whole of the other transport sector. After all, we are not one of these happy parties in the European Union who want both total harmonisation and totally free cabotage, etc. etc. But at least I've heard that, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen pleads. An interpretation of the cabotage rules has also been made, which means that there is actually free cabotage. There will also be vans, there is no doubt about that unless at some point we have courage and a man's heart here in the Folketing. Fortunately, there has just been an EU judgment which actually gives us a little sympathy with the interpretation of cabotage rules, so it could be that we should look even more carefully at that regulation and not just sit back and wait for the EU road package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155038	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155102	Thank you, sir. President. The bill we are discussing here today, as I said, is not put forward by the government, but by a group of parties outside the government, namely the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF. The draft directive proposes the introduction of a requirement for a permit system for the carriage of goods by road by road by road and proposes a limit of 2 000 kg, and then proposes a weight limit of 11 kg per load. piece goods. The Left isn't in on that. We fully agree that there may be a problem of undeclared work, social fraud, non-payment of taxes, etc., but basically it is a control problem. It is, of course, our control that is probably not quite sufficient in those areas. So I really think that we should try to concentrate our efforts on strengthening control, a targeted control, rather than creating new rules that go in and hit the many law-abiding road hauliers with vans on the market. Because that's actually what's unfortunately happening to this. But I respect the mathematics, the 90 mandates, they are the ones who decide in here and so I am glad that the minister has facilitated that this bill could be tabled, although, as I said on behalf of the Left, I disagree with it. It is therefore commendable that we want to combat these things, social dumping and cheating on the weight, and we all want to do so. However, the introduction of new rules, which basically do not solve the problem, the introduction of an authorisation system, does not prevent those who want to cheat from cheating, as I said. It's still gone a control challenge that will be left behind. In addition, there is also the fact that here it is actually a huge over-implementation of EU rules, that is, where we go Danish alone. I never think that is wise, especially when it comes to transport. It is of a cross-border nature, and there we in the Left are in favour of the same rules in the European Union, as well as of rules that are clear and enforceable. For once again, there is nothing worse than rules that cannot be enforced. Then it is better not to make rules, because when we make rules, we make people pretend that now we politicians have got it under control, and we have not, after all, because they are not being enforced and controlled. It is also at the heart of the road package that is coming from the European Union, as Mr. Kim Christiansen mentioned in passing. There's gonna be some rules for this area, too. That's all there is to it. Once again, however, it is crucial that there should be - and this is where we in Denmark have a concern - rules that are clear and enforceable as a basis for fair competition and control. One of the things I find quite problematic about this is that foreign vans driving around in Denmark are not covered by this. We cannot legislate about this in Denmark. And that actually means that Danish transport companies will be placed at a disadvantage in relation to the foreign ones, because we will suddenly be subject to some rules. That is why I foresee a great deal of driving from Flensburg across the border, and I do not think that is of any benefit to the industry or to the employees who are in the industry. In addition, there are also quite significant financial consequences that the Minister has explained. It is, of course, significant financial burdens that we are now passing on to companies, sometimes to small firms, and that is not exactly what we need to do either if we are to do better in competition with foreign firms. In short, I do not really think that we are hitting the wrong side of this bill. The intentions behind it are good. I acknowledge that, but frankly, I don't think we're hitting the dial. And when you look closely at the answers to the hearings, I have never seen a legislative proposal where there is such a massive scepticism about it in the hearings. These are very strong terms that have been used. For example: uses the Danish Business and PostNord It's a pretty strong turn of events in a hearing answer. There are others who come with strong warnings, among others. Danish Industry, Danish Construction, and Agriculture & Food are deeply concerned, as is the Capital Region; they are also critical of this here. It is very, very massive, and it has rarely been seen. This has also led to the fact that the Left is now asking 12 specific questions in committee, not to train it, but because we need to further clarify some of the concerns that have been raised, among other things. on the fact that foreign cars are now expected to enter and take over a large part of the market. So with these words, I would like to make it clear that we are helping to strengthen the control of the things where there are violations, but we are not helping to create new rules which basically affect the law-abiding and which certainly do not solve this problem. And that's why we don't think this bill should be promoted. And I should like to welcome my good colleague Andreas Steenberg and say that the Radical Left cannot support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155633	There are a few questions. It's first, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155636	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen pleads that the main problem is in fact the lack of control, but that is what Mr. Kim Christiansen said in his rapporteur's speech that if we are to control there must be some rules to control. At the moment, the industry is virtually without rules. After all, it is vans who carry out transport tasks at a foreign expense. If you are to have control, then there must be rules to control. That is just what the draft law wants to introduce, and to a large extent it is the same rules that apply to vehicles and lorries over 3.5 tonnes. So I do not see at all that the problem should be so violent or that it is just a control problem, because control belongs to rules. That is what we are introducing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155740	But we're not supposed to be doing control for control's sake. Today we have some rules on tax payments, social dumping and so on. I fully agree with this need to be effectively controlled. But why start setting up a new regime which costs a profession a great deal? That's what's happening. It suddenly imposes new burdens on those who drive out there quite legally on a daily basis. Why on earth should we do so when we basically do not hit the dial to eliminate social dumping? I understand that this is an important point for many of the proposers, and that is fair enough. But why should we create a completely new regime of rules, which must then also be controlled when it does not hit the dial? This isn't gonna fight social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155823	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155824	I disagree with that. Actually, I believe it does. It is also because today the industry runs largely without rules, that there are real, very many companies, arms and leg drivers, and what do I know is running under the radar, if I may say so. They will never be caught because today there is no basis for controlling vans. After all, this bill is gonna do that. There will be a reason why the police can intervene with controls on it, and in this respect I am absolutely convinced that companies, drivers, are also being caught, what is not paying taxes, which are here illegally or doing undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155911	I am very doubtful about this, because one of the problems is precisely that the police today do not have sufficient resources to carry out the roadside checks that we all want to carry out. That is why we in the Left are strongly in favour of a German-inspired BAG solution, so that we have a completely new body that controls it. But take, for example. the limit of 11 kilos in this bill. How do the proposers think it can be handled in practice? Should a policeman stand with a weight and weigh whether a package weighs more than or less than 11 kg? I think it will be very difficult to deal with in practice. I don't think there's gonna be a lot of checks on this. That's why you just don't hit the dial.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155946	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516155947	Thank you. I have to say, I'm a little confused on a higher level. For Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen speaks a lot about control, and I would just like to hear: what is it, sir? Is it the view of Kristian Pihl Lorentzen that the current legislation in the area of goods vehicles can be controlled? Perhaps that area is not something you can control at all, because Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says at the same time that it is better to have no rules at all. Yeah, yeah, but now we're making some rules, like mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen then can be allowed to control. Well, I think that's gonna be a winning case for Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The other thing is, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has very great concerns about these foreign cars. I have never heard the same concern on the part of the Left or the government, for that matter, in relation to the many thousands of lorries that are flagged out and run on German, Latvian or Romanian license plates. There I have never heard quite the same concern for the Danish transport industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160046	That is not quite correct. I have always fought for the same conditions for the transport industries, and if there is, and they are enforced equally, then the Danish hauliers will probably have to draw the longest straw. So that's a bit of a wrong conclusion from sir. Kim Christiansen's side. But again: As far as the rules set up here are concerned, there will be a process of approval to get a permit to drive and what then, once you have got it? Can't you imagine being cheated with arms and legs afterwards? I could predict that. As I said, I think that an important problem which I do not think the proposers have taken into account is that of moving the address to Flensburg, because then you can quite legally drive hundreds of vans in Denmark without following any rules. The control I am talking about is one of them. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that he has a legal residence permit for the driver of the car. And the union also has the opportunity to control the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160135	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160136	I do not think that it is quite wrong to conclude that the Left has largely not been concerned about these flagged-out cars, but we can have a long discussion about that. Of course, you can also just take some of the many quotes in the press, where I certainly do not think that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has been in the forefront of criticism of Danish Truckmen. Then I just want to say to Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, in his rapporteur's speech, wanted to ask a number of questions, specifically 12 questions, but not to bother. I would then say that I think it is a good thing that you are asking these questions, and I am happy to work throughout June, if it is that we cannot meet the deadline, in order to get it adopted before we go on summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160221	Well, it's not to train anything or to give someone overtime. It is simply a desire to clarify some things that we find problematic. But that sounds good. Thanks for the outstretched hand. And again with regard to lorries: what we are now fighting for down in the European Union, namely uniform rules that will ultimately benefit Danish road hauliers, we are working broadly together, and I am very pleased about that. Because what makes us have some impact outside the country's borders is, of course, if we can come together on matters rather than wage Punic wars in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160251	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160316	Thank you. As has been mentioned in several places, this bill has been in the pipeline for a long time. I think that in the process that has taken place, the government and the Ministry of Transport have had more than difficulty in complying with the majority resolution as from May 2016. That is why it has taken a few years to get to where we are today, when we are dealing with the legislative proposal. I think I can say calmly that the majority has seen the process as a relatively large number of leghold traps, with the aim of preventing the motion for a resolution and, ultimately, the legislative proposal from being implemented. However, I fully agree that there is a completely different view of this in the Ministry of Transport and in the Minister of Transport. I think that is fair enough, and I do not think that is worth spending time on in the discussion, because now it can be said that the bill is here. We think it's a good bill. It requires that, from the entry into force of the bill, there should be a permit for the carriage of goods at the expense of others; drivers and road hauliers must be trained; a capital requirement, a standard of conduct and a requirement for public debt to be paid; there must be a transport manager in the undertaking; there must be a place of business, etc. etc. This is all something we know from the other transport sector, which runs on a foreign basis, i.e. for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. It can be said that there are now approximately the same conditions as in the other freight sector. We actually think that's good. We believe that the bill will be a good tool in the fight against fraud and social dumping, which has, of course, affected the industry. That is also acknowledged by everyone. It is in the form of social fraud, illegal labour, undeclared work, wage dumping, etc. etc. I haven't seen that there's any disagreement as to whether this van industry is very much a part of it. After all, the serious part of the van industry has called for the clean-up that the bill represents. We believe with them that this will make the industry attractive to road hauliers and drivers, who will run a healthy and serious business with good pay and working conditions, with tax and VAT payments and with the use of trained drivers who provide a professional effort, contrary to what is happening today. The draft law does not prevent, as the Minister said, sharing services from being used as goods vehicle transport for foreign purposes. The only thing that is required is that they do so, as in the rest of the transport area, with a permit. You can make all the car sharing schemes you want, as long as you have a permit. That is exactly where we had it, for example. in connection with the taxi industry and in connection with Uber, for they thought they could drive without rules that they could drive without permission • what everyone else in the taxi industry should have. This bill, of course, helps to demand that, but we do think that is actually good, so we don't have these strange services that run without any permission and without any requirement for them. In our view, there are two problematic issues in the draft law. It may seem a little strange, of course, that I am pointing this out as a co-author. One is the weight limit of 11 kg. Of course, I noticed the Minister's reply that the higher a limit the better, because that put large parts of the bill out of hand. That is so right, and so is the limit of 11 kg. That is why we think it is problematic. We have understood that this is the way I understood at the meeting of the Ministry of Transport that it is not quite right that it was a kind of compromise with the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, and that it might be sensible, because then you might get a legislative proposal for which there was broad support. I understand that that was not the case. I would therefore hope that, at second reading, if nothing else in the majority, we will be able to discuss whether we can do something about this weight limit. I have had many inquiries about it, and it is both from people in the heavy goods vehicle police and from people in the industry that it is hopeless and will be really difficult to control. Of course, I find that problematic with such a bill. Then, like the other, there is, of course, also the wording of the existing road haulage law on pay and working conditions. That's section 6. Three, we know. But that is exactly the wording that has been strongly challenged by this NORTRA judgment, which has led to the chaos we know in some places, and not least in flex traffic. There I could hope that we could agree to change the wording so that it looks like the one we got into the taxi law. But that is what I want to do in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160838	Thank you very much. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160841	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested expressed the hope that it could be presented with broad agreement in the Folketing. That hope vanished when we saw the answers to the hearings, because, as I said, I have never seen such a massive opposition to a legislative proposal, and if we have any respect for the citizens, we must also put a little pressure on the consultation answers, and that resistance has been very massive. Then Mr. Henning Hyllested in on Uber, and it was probably a bit of an obscenity to compare with it, because with Uber there was talk of someone coming and driving and starting to break existing legislation. So it's not exactly comparable. But I'd like to ask you a question, sir. Henning Hyllested's attitude to the fact that hundreds of vans are coming, we must count on, running up from Flensburg as an army and starting to bring packages and other things to the citizens. Is that what you really want to see? Because that's what's on the horizon.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516160937	To answer the last one, I do not think so, and I do not think that this will be the real problem either. We know about the problem already from the other road haulage industry, but I do not think that will be the real problem. After all, we must remember that here we are talking about goods vehicles with a relatively limited capacity, so how much goods they want to carry and how far, I really doubt it will be the big problem. At least it's gonna be expensive per year. If you take it in smaller portions, if I may say so, rather than drive it in large trucks. On the response to the many answers to the hearings that have come where you are critical, I would say: well, it is clear that it is nice to work in an industry where there are virtually no rules and where, by and large, you can lay down your own rules. That is, of course, nice, and there are, of course, some road haulage organizations and so on. Responding to. But I feel like I can't really take care of that. I have received enquiries from and talked to some of the road hauliers and drivers who work in the serious part of the industry, and they have no doubt that it is sensible to get through this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161050	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161051	Thank you. Now it is not just road hauliers' organisations, for example. also the Capital Region, PostNord, etc., which has come from consultation responses. However, with regard to the issue of rules and controls, the draft law says that the aim is to combat undeclared work, social fraud and illegal labour and to increase road safety. Is Henning Hyllested aware of the fact that undeclared work and social fraud are already prohibited under the tax provisions in force; that the use of illegal labour is covered by existing immigration legislation, which contains many detailed provisions on when to take action against this kind of thing; and that this is hardly going to have a major impact on road safety? So we're gonna hit the dial with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161136	Yes, I certainly think so, and I have also touched on that in my questions and so on. If there are no rules to control, then there is no control. Now we have rules that need to be checked, and that means that there must be controls. In the first place, of course, it will be the police who will have to carry out the checks. However, as I mentioned in one of my questions, this also means, of course, that some of those who are running under radar or are running without rules today will, in my opinion, certainly catch. So this, in any case, I think it's an improvement. That is, for example, the case. also illegal cabotage, and we only have one way of combating this, and it is that the police catch those who do it, in roadside checks or in company controls. That is why control is necessary, but you cannot check if there are no rules. That is why I think that the draft law is also good and will work as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161225	Then we can thank Mr. Henning Hyllested and welcome Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161233	Thank you. Let me make it clear straight away that it really is not a good bill, which the government has been instructed to draw up. You almost want to say poor government. It is not for several reasons, but the most important one, as the Minister has also pointed out, is that imposing economic and administrative burdens is totally unnecessary. I simply believe that it is far too high a price to pay for solving a problem which is not particularly large and, secondly, is very difficult to resolve under the provisions of the law on the carriage of goods. As you know, undeclared work and social dumping are solved by SKAT and by the police according to separate rules on this. We have already heard several examples of this. So summa summarum one can say that the problems here fall outside the dial compared to the bill. In addition, there is over-implementation, and since Denmark is not a desert island, it will also indirectly favour foreigners. We have already heard about this. Control is very difficult to enforce. We have heard that over and over again. And then the logic is that we have some rules that we cannot control, and then we have to solve it with some additional rules, so we hit all the law-abiding ones. That is a very difficult logic to understand. Finally, we can see that the law-abiding economic operators must now be burdened with a number of economic and administrative burdens. That's a lot of minuses on the note I can find out about this bill. And it will never be the policy of the Liberal Alliance to overrule law-abiding companies with additional rules. That's why we're against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161422	There is one comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161428	Are the problems which the draft law here tries to address, as has now been mentioned several times, problems of social dumping, illegal labour, undeclared work, lack of VAT, etc. etc., not problems, as Mr. Villum Christensen agrees with actually exists and is quite common in this van industry after everything you've been told at least and which has been investigated. This is also evident from the fact that exactly the licensing system for goods vehicles is also part of the European Commission's proposal for a road package, and that means that this is not really just a Danish problem, it is obviously a general problem in all European countries and that it is therefore sensible to try to sort it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161524	Of course these are some kind of problems, but the whole problem, and that is what I was trying to explain, is that we miss the dial. After all, we have rules in this area, and there is no point in making new rules and then sending the police out with a weight to find out if you have something that weighs above or below 11 kg. I think I took note of the rapporteur's concern precisely for that aspect of the matter, which is, as it were, the new one. The fact that you have to have a permit does not mean that it is easier to do these road controls or what you are doing to hit social dumping under some other rules. It is a curious logic that we have a set of rules that cannot be pursued, that is very difficult to control, and then they say that so that we make some other rules that are really about something else, and then you tell the Minister that he will not lay his back in a legislative proposal, while at the same time you can see that there are huge problems. I believe that Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that I believe, very, very many times in the rapporteur's speech. I stopped setting small lines. So it is such a matter of faith that we are talking about, but our belief in the Liberal Alliance is not that when we have rules we cannot enforce, to make some new rules that have something quite different to do. That is not our regime or our thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161652	Then we'll have to see who's stronger in the faith. The rapporteur and the Minister for that matter, as well as Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has referred to the fact that there are other rules, there are other rules that are moving towards this, or that take these things into account, but the fact is that the tax administration or the Ministry of Integration, or whoever it is, administers different rules in this area, does not go out and carry out road controls. If you don't, how are you gonna catch the big part of this inflamed business? It is, of course, out there that you have to catch them where it actually works, because there is a great deal of black labour and illegal labour, etc. etc. So they're not just going to go out and visit and ask: What do you do for a living, and do you have for the rest etc. etc.? First of all, it is the police who can do so in connection with the checks that are also being carried out in the area of freight transport in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161750	I guess the solution is to be a little more sharper on the existing controls and not go out and make some rules that are about something quite different and that only bother a lot of citizens who follow the rules of the game in this country. So that is actually the logic that Enhedslisten often presents to us in this Chamber, that when you have a problem, there has to be a new rule, and then we have to have some more public employees, and then we have to check, and then we have to spend some money on it. That is what I find difficult to keep running for when the problem is quite different, namely that we have a set of rules where control is the problem. However, let's somehow be more pointed at having that control designed, so it's more effective... it's in my log rather than making completely different rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161838	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. We move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516161843	Thank you for that, President. L 234 is a draft law amending the law on the carriage of goods. We have had a very interesting debate so far, and the legislative proposal is of course about the fact that small goods vehicles carrying out freight services on a foreign basis will in future be subject to the legislation on the carriage of goods in the form of an authorisation system. We are in favour of this in the alternative because we believe that such a system will meet some of the challenges facing the industry. And the challenges have been outlined by most rapporteurs. The authorisation system, as it appears in the proposal, has emerged on the basis of the recommendations made by the Committee on Goods Vehicles. And yes, there has been a bit of strife, and there have been advocates and opponents. In the alternative, we agree that a licensing system will be a good tool to combat cheating, fraud, bankruptcy and overload in the van industry. These are some of the challenges we face. And then we have heard about undeclared work, illegal work and road safety. We believe, on an equal footing with the 3F and the LO, that an authorisation system is appropriate because it will strengthen both the legality and the social conditions of this part of freight transport. Then we also agree with some of the criticisms made in the various consultations, and this must be taken into account. We need to talk about that, among other things. the de minimis limit. It is clear that we should not prevent innovation and co-driving or platform economy from being unduly slowed down, but at the same time we need to address all the challenges facing society and the industry. So let us examine the impact and consequences of the scheme in the long term, and then we hope that we have helped solve some of the major problems in the industry here. Thanks for the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162045	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we reached Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162052	The industry for vans is a rather mixed business. There is a need to clean up and create some new clear rules, so to speak, get this industry through the political outlook, and we do so today with this bill. We must help to create a serious profession that attracts skilled people who want to do solid business and, at the same time, we must keep our hands under fixed pay and working conditions. Social dumping is like insects that are rodenting in the supporting construction of the welfare society. For workers there must be a fair opportunity to get a good job. For companies there must be fair competition to get orders into the store. And what we need to do is to strengthen the structure of the organised, regulated and civilised labour market. The woodwork must be treated for attacks by worms, drill beetles, wasps, ants, bog pigs or any other form in which social dumping had to poke its face. This bill is a contribution to better and more transparent and regulated conditions in the van industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162231	There are no brief comments, so we proceed to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162240	Thank you. Conservatives, like the other bourgeois parties, cannot support the bill, but I would like to commend the opposition and the alternative majority here for bringing forward a legislative proposal. It is rather unusual to do so, but it is quite right that the majority of the Folketing should vote through a legislative proposal. Many people sometimes have the misunderstood view that it is the government that decides which legislative proposals will be adopted in Denmark and which rules will apply in Denmark, and that is not the case. It is the majority of the Folketing that decides, and that is why it is entirely by the book that a bill is now being tabled and made applicable. Conservatives are in favour of competition. We are in favour of having as little unnecessary legislation as possible in Denmark. It must be easy to operate, and we also think it should apply when it comes to goods transport in Denmark. That is why we are opposed to a legislative proposal which prevents competition, which makes it expensive and, above all, difficult for traders in Denmark to practise a profession, and we basically do not think of the idea that special permits should be required to carry out a particular economic activity in Denmark. One should be allowed to carry out business activities without having to go through a long process of applying for a permit to pursue a particular profession. It is an old-fashioned low-thinking that only makes it difficult and prevents people from getting into a business. I also think that the argument for this draft law in this House today has been very poor. It has been argued that there are some problems with undeclared work, tax fraud, bankruptcy, all things that are already illegal. On the other hand, no arguments have been put forward for the content of the draft law. It has not been argued that Denmark is getting better because it is now going to have an authorisation system, that it is going to have certain training courses and that you have to pay fees in order to be allowed to operate goods transport. So the real content of the bill does not seem to me to have been argued for. It has been argued that we are opposed to acts that are already illegal, and if we have a situation where people commit something that is illegal under applicable law, then there is therefore no reason to change the legal situation. Then there is reason to enforce the already existing legislation. That is why I think it is unnecessary. An attempt is being made to solve a problem with the wrong tools: to introduce more legislation, to make it more difficult and more expensive to operate goods transport in Denmark. It must also be said that the consultation answers that have been received really reflect very major problems in the legislative proposal here. So we cannot support it, but we recognise that we have a majority who does not want competition, who wants to make it difficult for business, and that is entirely according to the rules of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162600	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162605	Well, that was for sir. Rasmus Jarlov's comments that he was in favour of competition. Then it is that I quickly add to: sir. Rasmus Jarlov is well in favour of fair and you just have to admit that it does not today. This is one of the aims of the draft law, which is to correct by introducing a, what should we say, licensing regime. I don't understand. Rasmus Jarlov may oppose the introduction of a licensing regime which imposes a whole series of requirements on road hauliers and drivers. It's gonna make sure we get a professional business. It was the same discussion we had about the taxi business. I could imagine that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also wanted to be absolutely sure that when he sends a bus on the street, it is run by a qualified driver. So we're making demands. We make training requirements, we make demands on our doctors. After all, we don't send anyone into surgery to cut people and so on. After all, these are some of the requirements of the licensing system that we think it is necessary to create a professional industry in which, at the same time, we can compete on equal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162726	We are, of course, in favour of competition being understood on equal terms in the way that the same rules should apply to people who practise on the Danish market. It should not be the case that there are some, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. But we are not in favour of it, as Mr. Henning Hyllested calls a professional industry where you cut people off from easy to enter and practice the profession. I see it as such that when Mr. Henning Hyllested says it should be a professional industry, so it should be such a closed club of actors, a special company that is only allowed to perform the profession. We are not in favour of this. We are in favour of easy access so that all those who want to practise a profession should be allowed to do so without putting up unnecessary obstacles. Of course there must be rules, for example. I have just not seen it demonstrated that there should be any security problem, which means that we need to make demands on all kinds of training for the labour market and what else is going to be in such training as is now required. So you set out requirements that are not intended to create security in the market, you aim to establish barriers to entry, so it will be difficult to get in and make goods transport in Denmark, and we are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162852	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162856	About that, for example. As far as safety is concerned, we do not know, strictly speaking, because there is no control over this industry. One can, of course, be quite afraid of what it would look like if extensive controls were carried out within it. We saw it earlier with the bus business and the bus truckers. It didn't look too good, even if they're driving passenger transport. You say that with easy access to a profession, but it's as easy for everyone as it can be, but it doesn't put any obstacles in the way of saying that now you have to have, for example. a 2-week course on how to handle goods or handle a van • handles one, handles the other, and so on. I cannot understand why the general demands we make in all areas of social life for people who have to practise a profession should not apply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516162951	I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested takes it very lightly that you then have to take a 2-week course as if it is a trifle. It is a great burden to impose on companies, that is to say, that they all have to take a course for two weeks. What it does not cost in hours of work, it is a huge million dollars, a huge, huge million dollars, which means that an industry is charged with working hours and training fees. I do not like the approach to it, that is to say, we should make a little extra legislation. It has not been demonstrated that there are any security problems, but let us just make some extra legislation in order to be safe. I think it's all wrong. Legislation is something that needs to be introduced as a matter of urgency and because there is a proven need for it. This is not something you just make this extra, because rather a little too much legislation than a little too little. That is certainly not the philosophy we have at Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163037	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Christian Rabjerg Madsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163048	Thank you for that and thank you for an extremely good debate. There is a great need for more orderly conditions in the van business. I actually sense that there is a fairly broad consensus on this, and there is probably because the problems have been known for a long time. For example: said the then tax minister Troels Lund Poulsen after a raid in 2010, and here I quote: The action unfortunately reveals that there are massive problems in the road haulage industry. It looks like a criminal catalog of social fraud, illegal labour and undeclared work. Those are harsh words from a tax minister, and these are the problems we want to address with the proposal. Despite the fact that the Minister's statements almost 10 years old paint a very clear picture of an industry that has some problems, no decisive steps have been taken at Christiansborg to get rid of cheating and cheating in the van industry, and that is why I think it is a joyous day today, when we are actually taking an initiative. The automotive industry itself has also called for both regulation and higher requirements. For example: employers in DTL and drivers in 3F have been demanding stricter requirements for years to correct the industry's strained image. The message from large parts of the industry is that you want to create an attractive and professional profession where you can attract hauliers and drivers. It is my view that today's draft law takes a significant step towards a more professional and orderly sector, which can actually attract labour to a greater extent, which is also needed. In Denmark, we are proud of our labour market, a labour market characterised by proper pay and working conditions. That is why we must, of course, respond here to Christiansborg, when an industry is again and again in the spotlight because of too many bankruptcies, cases of undeclared work, straw-man business and cases where people work without a work permit or at the same time they receive public services. Black work, cheating and cheating are devastating both for the industry, but it is also bad for the Treasury because social fraud means that the Treasury and thus the community are missing out on revenue. However, I would also like to say that it is essential for the proposers that we should now lift the working conditions of the people who work in the van industry. That is why the proposal contains several elements which, overall, will help to raise professionalism in the goods vehicle sector and to combat social dumping. Firstly, the proposal provides for a training and competence boost for drivers and road hauliers. DTL and 3F are already working with a course for drivers, so there is experience in the industry that you can draw on in relation to doing this training. The training requirement must raise the professionalism of the industry as a whole and ensure that the individual driver is aware of the rules that must help to secure an industry in which it can endure. Secondly, for road hauliers, a capital requirement, a requirement of good repute and the obligation to pay debts to the public authorities are introduced. These are measures to limit the bankruptcy that the statistics clearly testify to there, and it is also a measure that can separate the stray vessels from the rest of the industry. Thirdly, the proposal introduces requirements for the form and place of business. Where the haulier's business is run as a public limited liability company, joint-stock company or partnership, the wagonman's licence must be applied for and issued to the company and the company must have a transport manager who is actually and continuously responsible for the transport of goods by the undertaking. There must be a contract of employment for the transport manager indicating that he is the transport manager and the salary of the transport manager. A holder of a road haulage licence shall, as a general rule, comply with the provisions on the terms and conditions of employment of drivers contained in collective agreements. The measures I have mentioned here must ensure that there is better control of road haulage, and also to put an end to the creation of railway companies in the industry and thus to drive on after possible bankruptcies. At the same time, the list of proposals will obviously help to limit and combat wage dumping. I welcome the fact that our proposal L 234 proves that there is in fact a majority in this Parliament who cares about the need for proper conditions in Denmark when going to work, and a majority that states that competition between companies must take place on proper terms. It is sad that, despite a year-long debate and various working groups, the government has announced that it does not want to be involved, but the Minister and the government and the other parties must explain and defend this. Today, I shall confine myself to welcoming the fact that we are now taking a decisive step in the fight against social dumping, in the fight for orderly conditions and in the fight for the absence of a job that becomes sick of going on, that you do not have a job where you do not get a decent salary, but that, on the contrary, we are creating a more professional industry that can attract the drivers that the industry needs more. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163613	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163615	Thanks for the speech. I would also be surprised if the Social Democrats did not support it, so that is a good thing. However, the rapporteur said that one of the main objectives is to combat undeclared work. Then the question is whether the bill is suitable for that. If it was the case that permit schemes such as this with a snap could combat undeclared work, then we must have authorisation schemes for other sectors where black work is sometimes seen, for example. The craftsman's business? I would like to ask the Social Democrats about that. I would also like to ask what the Social Democrats think of the prospect of establishing themselves in, for example, the European Union. Flensburg and then start driving in Denmark and not be subject to these rules at all and whether it is desirable. Is it good for Danish hauliers and their employees that there can be a prospect of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163710	Thank you for that, and thank you for some very good questions. It is my view that if we increase professionalism in the industry by both training road hauliers and training drivers, in other words, raising awareness of the rules that apply in this area, then I agree with both DTL and 3F • that such an increase in training will make you much more aware of what the rules are and how to do the work in a sensible way. And I am quite convinced that the professionalism that a training boost will bring will mean that the scale of undeclared work will fall into an industry which, unfortunately, is far too marked by undeclared work. That is why I believe that our proposal addresses that problem. In relation to Flensburg, you have to say two things. On the one hand, there are cabotage rules today which limit the business model that the rapporteur points out, and on the other hand, there are EU rules on the subject which will hopefully come up with similar requirements for car manufacturers in the other EU countries. So I'm pretty confident about that risk, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163835	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163838	Now cabotage rules apply to lorries and not to vans, but then there is that about the illegal labour force. There we all agree that we should not have it running around in vans, but does the Social Democrats not agree that precisely in foreign law there are very clear rules on what is legal and what is illegal and that it is a question of enforcing the rules, that is to say, control and control, which must combat it? There is much use of the words 'black work', 'illegal labour', etc., and we all want to fight that, but are we really fighting it with such a new administrative regime here? Isn't that what it takes? Isn't it more effective control instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163918	If the Left were really a party that was concerned with combating illegal labour in the industry, undeclared work and bankruptcy, then I do not understand why this bill has not been more constructively adopted. For the first time after I do not know how many years, after I do not know how many newspaper articles, there is, in fact, now a majority in the Folketing that takes the well-documented problems seriously. Anything else I think is talk. I think we have talked too long in here, and I am glad that we are now stopping talking and starting to act on those problems instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163955	Then it's mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516163957	Thank you. I don't think we should stop like that right away. If we cut to the bone, I understand that the problem is that we have some who cheat and that we have some who don't cheat, and then we make a rule that now you have to have a permit. What's it all to the heart that the parties behind this proposal think make the difference? Would you imagine everyone who doesn't cheat asking for a permit, or what? What's the logic? Why on earth do you think that's what I can't really understand that what is the solution to undeclared work is asking for a permit? What is the logic of asking those who do their job right to have to have a lot of costs and a lot of trouble in getting a permit and that all those who do not can just do as they have always done? What is the logic such a completely bottom line? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164059	After all, I have explained how the elements of the bill will combat bankruptcy, undeclared work and business leaders employ people who do not have a residence permit or a work permit. What I really think is the best answer to the question is clear rules. When you ask a lot of companies who do things according to the book, many of the companies are organized, such as DTL, you can also hear that they are just asking for rules to get more organized relationships. They want companies that cheat to have clear rules to live up to, because with clear rules there will also be an opportunity to check whether the rules are being complied with. So with a permit requirement, we get clear rules that we can check if they are being complied with. I think that has an effect and with the proposal we get training for both drivers and road hauliers. I am absolutely convinced that this will raise the basic professionalism of the industry and meet some of these challenges. I have explained this, but there are also elements to the fact that we must not have unpaid debts to the public, that we must meet requirements of good repute and that we must provide financial guarantees. After all, these are rules that will address directly the challenge we currently face, with far too many bankruptcies in this area. So I think this bill is thoroughly and properly addressing some of the problems that we should agree on should be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164233	With that, we thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164249	The debate is open. We start with the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164312	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution, which allows us to discuss how to solve a major problem we have in Denmark. The Danish People's Party proposes with B 125 that the government carry out a study on the extent of legionella infected and map the link between the risk of infection and the lack of maintenance of hot water systems. In addition, it is part of the proposal that the government should present a proposal with concrete proposals on how to minimise the risk of infection with legionella bacteria as much as possible. First of all, I would like to stress that the government is taking very seriously the problems of the increasing number of legionellas. The Legionary Disease is closely monitored in Denmark by the Statens Serum Institut and the Danish Agency for Patient Safety, and the monitoring shows that we have a high number of infected people measured per year. citizens compared to other European countries. In addition, the number of infected people in Denmark is increasing. Both are of concern to the government. There is no simple or unambiguous explanation for the increasing number of registered cases of legionella infected in Denmark, as this is not analysed to the bottom. We know that the concentration of legionella bacteria is highly dependent on the water temperature, as the temperature must be at least 50 degrees so that the legionella bacteria are not propagated, but we do not have the full overview of e.g. the link between the maintenance of hot water systems and the risk of infection. For example, an estimate of the incidence of Legionary Disease by region shows that Funen and Østjylland have the highest incidence with 6.4 and 5.1 cases respectively. 100,000 inhabitants, while Bornholm and Copenhagen have the lowest incidence with 0 and 0.9 cases respectively. 100,000 inhabitants. The reasons for this geographical difference in the incidence of the Legionary Disease have not been identified. The government therefore fully agrees with the Danish People's Party that it is important to find the reasons for the high number of infected people in Denmark. In March 2018, the Danish Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Health Authority, The Danish Agency for Patient Safety, the Danish Energy Agency, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Danish Agency for Transport, Housing and Construction discussed the Danish Legionella Initiative, and it has been decided to initiate an in-service work which among other things. to investigate and map the causes of the increasing number of legionellas infected in Denmark. Part of this work will include studies on the link between the maintenance of hot water systems and the risk of infection. Inter-ministerial work is among other things: Given the attention previously paid by Mrs Liselott Blixt to legionella problems and the specific committee questions put to the Minister for Health and to me by the authors of the motion for a resolution on Legionella. The government is proposing to wait for the inter-ministerial work so that we can identify the causes of the increasing number of legionellas infected and, in the light of this, launch initiatives which will certainly reduce legionella infection. I look forward to the further discussions in committee on the proposal in this context. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164632	Thank you very much, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164636	I should, of course, like to thank the Minister. Now we had a meeting on the motion for a resolution, and I am very pleased that the initiative has been taken to do this interpolitical work and to take into account the Danish Energy Agency and others. So I see that part of the proposal has already been implemented, and I hope, of course, that in future some of the places where you can see that there are some problems can be done. Now I know as I have told the Minister, when we had a conversation about it that at Bornholm some steps have actually been taken, and that may be why the number of infected people has been reduced at Bornholm. Because, as you can see in many of the cases that have taken place, a judgment has eventually been handed down, and that was in 2011. So I would like to ask the Minister if you look at the judgment that fell in the municipality of Elsinore, where there was a man who died, and some others who got sick because there was a swimming pool that did not control the hot water system. And there was just a verdict that it is the operator who is responsible. This was, in fact, the first step that could be taken, in other words to remind the municipalities that they have a responsibility in relation to it. Is that something the Minister wanted to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164758	It may well be that we have to send a shepherd's letter to the municipalities, where we point out that they are actually the owners of, for example. swimming pools responsible for the absence of legionella bacteria in their hot water systems. It may well be that we have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164819	We are therefore grateful to the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516164841	Thank you. It is crucial that the Danes have full confidence in the water coming out of the tap. Whether you are in a swimming pool, at home in your own shower, whether you are in a hospital or anywhere else, you should have confidence that the water is free from deadly bacteria that can cause disease and infection. I would say that this applies in particular to Legionella. That is why, of course, I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative to table this motion for a resolution, in which the subject has an opportunity to be discussed thoroughly. It is always relevant to discuss how we improve conditions in the areas and improve security in Denmark. It is clear that the Danes become deeply concerned when they read in the newspapers that now the number of legionella cases has increased, and in particular in 2017, without being able to pinpoint completely why such a huge increase occurs in cases. Of course, as legislators, we cannot be satisfied with that either. We have a long and proud tradition in Denmark that the Statens Serum Institute detects and continuously analyzes cases of legionary disease, and in the event of major outbreaks or patterns they also respond as prescribed, and they have done so in this case too. So does the Board for Patient Safety. And where there are these various cases of major outbreaks of disease, there is close dialogue with hospitals to ensure that the risk of infection is as low as possible. Both institutions also record those cases at a relatively detailed level, but of course we can always do better. We are far too high, as the Minister has said, and as the motion for a resolution has also described, on the number of people infected with legionella per year. Compared with other Western European countries. We cannot be satisfied with this, and we must work to ensure that this number is reduced, as I also imagine there is a broad consensus among all those present in the Danish Parliament today. In the Social Democratic Party, we are also pleased to note that the Minister for Health has taken the initiative for an inter-ministerial dialogue, and the Minister described quite well precisely this inter-ministerial dialogue which is going on at the moment, and it also includes the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing. So all these community-related cases, which we are talking about here, where there is something in our building stock that causes these very cases of illness, are under discussion, and we must of course also ensure that the best opportunities available to avoid the risk of infection are in private homes. As we understand from the Minister for Health, it has been proposed that more knowledge should be collected in this area and therefore work actively to prevent and increase safety in order not to be infected with Legionella. Of course, we also support this initiative, and we look forward to what inter-ministerial work leads to. However, in relation to the present proposal, I think it is important that we keep in mind that we may be at risk of a large extra printing for regions and municipalities if we are to start large renovation projects as a result of the proposal on the current basis. I just think we should have that in the back of our minds when it is we're discussing these things. That is why I think that, in the work of the committee, which I look forward to, we should focus on how we can take action in a cost-effective way against these terrible cases of Legionella. For example, I have read that there is obviously a biocide that can secure the water against legionella, and I personally think it might be more interesting to discover the potential of such technologies than perhaps to jump into a higher cost of replacing the whole of the country's water pipe mass. Finally, we could also consider in committee whether there is a need for a campaign to focus on how private individuals can reduce the risk. For example, as you already know today, by regularly flushing shower heads with boiling water and by letting the water run for a few minutes before taking a shower, if you bathe places where there is a long time between turning the water on and off, you could reduce this risk. Removing it completely may not be likely. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that we can have this dialogue on Legionella, and we also hope that we can use this proposal to have a proper talk and to clarify all the possibilities of reducing this risk and moving forward along the path that the proposers have already set out. Against this background, we very much look forward to discussing it further in committee and, moreover, we hope that it will end up with a very, very fruitful committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165317	For the time being, there is one question from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165321	Well, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. But it sends some confusing signals. It sounds like the CDC has made an active effort in relation to it and the Minister and all these things. Yes, that has only been done because I have been asking questions about it for the last year and a half. Fortunately, I also heard the Minister give the undertaking that this was precisely why it had been made here. The rapporteur then says that all pipes must be changed. I can't say that's true. Now I have had a lot of meetings with engineers for the past year and a half; I have really felt really nerdy, and I have been working with hot water tanks and district heating systems etc. This is also a lot about how we may be eager to make things a little greener and save energy and turn down some places at some district heating plants, actually get some water, which, when it comes out, comes down to a temperature that makes it nice for these legionella bacteria. So I am surprised that the rapporteur may not think that it would have been appropriate to inform the municipalities that have done nothing, the municipalities that have not seen the judgment handed down in 2011 and to hear what has been done on Bornholm. Was it not an idea to tackle it instead of saying that it might be that it would cost too much money in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165449	So let me make it a little clearer. I think it is excellent to have brought up what I understand Mrs Liselott Blixt has done several times. Social democracy has also been aware of this problem; it is not new. I myself have previously been a member of the Patient Damage Appeal Board back in the 1990s, when we also had cases relating to this. So I just want to say that this isn't because what's going on is unknown to me. With regard to the issue of pipes, I would like to say that there are a great many pipe joints. And if Mrs Liselott Blixt has spoken to many engineers, I think she is also aware of precisely those issues. When you have knob shots on construction sites like this... public nursing homes and hospitals, it is exactly in pipe joints that such bacteria may occur with increased risk. And this leads to an increased risk of Legionella infection. And, of course, this is not acceptable, but nevertheless it is a fact that this is the case, because we have also had a need to both renovate and build on public institutions that provide care and care for our citizens. But with regard to what I mean, I certainly think the Minister has already said that he will send out a shepherd's letter. Aarhus Municipality already makes regular samples, and I think that what is going on at Bornholm and elsewhere is excellent. Let us certainly set the highest level, in relation to what is to happen, as a standardisation of how to inform citizens, and in particular the vulnerable citizens who, during periods of their lives, need care and care and who are particularly vulnerable on this point. So there we share exactly the same view as the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165625	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165626	Now it sounds as if the Social Democratic Party has done a great deal for this; it has also been responsible in the past. I would then like to hear what the Social Democrats have done in the time when they have had a knowledge that it was this way. We know that if you turn up the hot water to over 50 degrees, you kill the bacteria, and then there are no bacteria. So what has the Social Democratic Party done to do something about this, which you know is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165656	It is true that the Social Democratic Party has had the power of government for 31⁄2 years out of the last 18 years. So it can be said that during that period we have among other things. I think it is a good thing that we should do this. The municipality of Aarhus, which I mentioned before, has been led by a Social Democratic mayor for a long time and has among other things. And put in there too. So that's actually what we've been doing. However, we are happy to support the fact that the work will continue exactly in the way that has been planned and we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165723	We thank the rapporteur and then we have reached the rapporteur of the Left, who is on his way to the platform. It's even sir. Hans Christian Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516165740	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is a proposal aimed at reducing the risk of being infected with the legionella bacteria from hot water systems. What we have also read out to the Danish People's Party specifically proposes with this resolution is that the government carry out a study on the extent of legionella infected. And the proposal also states that the government must present a proposal with a concrete proposal on how to minimise the risk of infection with legionella bacteria as much as possible. I would like to start by pointing out on behalf of the Left that I find it very worrying that we in Denmark are experiencing an increasing number of citizens affected by legionellasmite. Compared with other European countries, we have a high number of infected people, and this is therefore a problem which must be taken very seriously. Against this background, I would like to say that I agree with the Danish People's Party that we need to identify the reasons for the high number of infected citizens in Denmark. I would also like to take this opportunity because I have followed it to commend Mrs Liselott Blixt for having really done a great deal in this area. It is rare that those who make a great deal of effort should also experience in the political system, that some results should be obtained, and I must hope and hope for Mrs Liselott Blixt that this will be the case. Anyway, a receipt from our side for a big and nice effort. It is, of course, the case that an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to investigate this increasing number of citizens infected with the legionella bacteria. But I can almost already sense that Mrs Liselott Blixt is going to say something about us having to follow up on the fact that something is being done, that something is happening, and there I think we are going to promise each other that we will have to follow up on that. For the fact that it is inter-ministerial, I just say after a long life in the Folketing, is not what gives an even faster cause. Well, one thing is that it's one ministry, but when it's inter-ministerial, you have to say that it can go and take some time. So we must try to keep up with that together, and I would very much like to do so on behalf of my party. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that this is a good proposal that we must continue to work on and, of course, I think it is appropriate that we wait for the outcome of the inter-ministerial work when it is now under way, that we follow it up and that it is completed. Then future initiatives can be launched on a more enlightened basis. So if we do not support the motion for a resolution, it is with that in mind, and I think the rapporteur for the authors of the motion understands that. I would also like to say to the Conservatives, who could not be here, that they share that view. You cannot then support the motion for a resolution, but it is not the same as the fact that we do not want to sign for the seriousness of the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170037	Thank you, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170043	Thank you for that, President. I think this is a good motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, and we in the Enhedslisten can support that. My colleagues here have done something about telling us a little about how the situation has been in relation to Legionella in Denmark. I think I will start a step further back, namely to tell you what Legionella is at all, quite briefly, so everyone is in it. This is a bacteria which especially thrives in the case of stagnant water and lukewarm water. What is with the legionella bacteria is that it can cause a serious form of pneumonia, especially in weakened and elderly people, and we also know that it can be fatal. About 1 in 10 people infected with Legionella die on average. So it's quite serious. As the others have already explained before me, we can therefore see an increase in the number of people infected with legionella in Denmark, also an increase which we do not see correspondingly in other countries around us, for example. Sweden, Germany and Great Britain. And as the Minister also said, the State Serum Institute has not been able to explain that increase so far, and that is of course worrying, because when we cannot explain it, it is also difficult to do anything about it. That is why I think it is certainly a good proposal that the Danish People's Party is proposing, namely that we get more knowledge of what the cause is and that we also get some concrete proposals on how we can then do something to prevent Legionnaire and Legionella bacteria. I do not know whether it is just a question of such different ways of doing so, but I really cannot fully understand why there is a need in this way to say that the resolution is not supported. I actually hear that there is a great deal of consensus in this Parliament and we should be able to support that resolution. Perhaps it is just a question of wording, because I hear everyone actually saying that we want more knowledge and that we also want action on that basis. So we should be able to bring this together in committee. I think it is good that the proposal also emphasises that the government should subsequently invite the political parties here in the Folketing to negotiations. This is also a way in which we can commit each other, in other words to follow up and possibly discuss the economy. So if the Danish People's Party chooses to put it to the vote, we will press the green button, and otherwise we in the committee would certainly like to discuss what the wordings are for us to move forward together. And I actually hear the other parties say that too, so I wonder if that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170318	With this wish, we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170325	We are moving somewhat away from my ordinary rapporteur's area here, but I understand that the number of legionella infected is increasing, not just in Denmark, but throughout Europe. We must, of course, take this seriously, so I am also pleased that, as we have heard, the government has decided to start work across ministries so that we can clarify where the root of the problem is to be found. I therefore very much agree with the Minister that we should wait for this work, and it can be said that it is also difficult to make a diagnosis if we do not know the cause of the problem. We actually also note that this corresponds a little to what Enhedslisten ended by saying that there are a lot of people who agree that we need to learn more about this. It is also difficult not to agree with that, I think. That is why I hope that it can actually be landed in a joint report so that we do not have to take a position on this with the red button or the green button, when the consensus is as pronounced as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170436	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170442	Thank you for that, President. B 125 is about reducing the risk of being infected with the legionella bacteria from hot water systems in Denmark. It is, of course, a fine review that has already been carried out and, above all, thank you for the work done by the rapporteurs in this area. I would actually have made a longer speech, but I think I will cut it down to the point that the Statens Serum Institute is not aware whether it is also due to climate change in relation to the water infection. So what do we do? That's a good question. At any rate, I would like to take this opportunity to say that we are the first generation to really feel these climate change, and we are the last one to do something about it before it really bites us in the butt. In addition, I also hope that we can land it in the form of a joint report, and I think that should be the words from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170547	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. And then it looks like Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen is on her way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170556	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward this proposal for an important proposal, not least because the pneumonia caused by this legionella bacterium is really violent and, unfortunately, often fatal. It is important to me and to the SF that we continue to ensure the health of our citizens. This can be done with the proposal made by the Danish People's Party. And in the SF we also support the proposal. We think it is important to identify not least the extent of infection with legionella bacteria, but at the same time we also think it is a very good idea to look at some concrete proposals on how we can ensure that hot water systems are safe so that citizens are not infected when they use them. I think I would say that I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it would make very good sense if, on the basis of this proposal, we had a thorough discussion in committee, because I am also listening to broad support for this to be a serious problem and that we should take it seriously and that we should ensure that it is actually resolved and that it does not take many years. So that would immediately be a bid on my part, and I would like to press the green button in the same way as Enhedslisten, if that is the case that the proposal ends in the Parliamentary Chamber. But I am hoping for a discussion in which the concrete proposals on how to deal with the work can be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170735	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And then we have actually reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516170750	I would like to start by saying thank you, not for the debate, because there has not been so much debate, but I would certainly like to thank the speakers. And especially to the Minister, with whom I met before today, I would like to say that you have accepted half of the proposal, which is the most important, and that is to find out: what is happening when we see an increase in Denmark that is greater than in other countries? I am very pleased that this work has been set in motion and that we can agree on what we will do afterwards. So, for my part, it is not the most important thing whether we can have a vote, but that we can make an agreement, a report that we will, of course, look into each other's eyes after the inter-ministerial work and see what solutions there can be. And there can be many different things you can do. As I mentioned earlier, there are municipalities which have solved the task and taken on the responsibility that they have in the municipalities. And that means checking up on how hot water systems are in the municipality at different institutions etc. There may be things they have done on Bornholm that have been quite good at it and that you can stand up to. And I know that there are a lot of these engineers who have said, "Come and ask us; we want to share our knowledge." Precisely because I have been dealing with this for the past few years, I have received a lot of emails from some of the people involved, and I just received a letter from an environmental technician at Bornholm, who has worked with it in the municipality, and they have carried out campaigns to bring it to the attention of the citizens. And they have then followed up on specific cases where there has been illness or death, or they have worked on it in other ways. But they also think that this is something that should be looked at in terms of legislation or in terms of guidance, and that is where you can ask: is there anything missing in this area? I hope, of course, that the various ministries will take a look at this, i.e. whether there is anything missing in the legislation. I've delved into it a bit, and there was a case that I was talking about earlier when I asked questions from Helsingør in 2009, where the legionella bacteria cost one person his life and four others became seriously ill by using some showers in the municipal swimming pool. There was a 72-year-old man who survived, but had to spend the rest of his time in a wheelchair. He filed a lawsuit against the Municipality of Elsinore, and in August 2011, the court ruled that it was the municipality's responsibility that there were legionella bacteria in the pipes. At the time, it was thought that this case would set a precedent, but I just think that there are a lot of municipalities that forget about it, and they do not do so out of bad will and that you can actually get sick from taking a bath. I also think there are a lot of ordinary people who do not think about it and who drive out to their summer house now, when the sun shines, and then there may have been some of the old water in their hot water tank, which they then do not get removed. So there are a lot of things in goose eyes • easy solutions where you can do some things when you get picked up on it. And, of course, I hope that we can do that and that we may also have a look at this: are there any requirements that we can make, as we do in Germany and England, where we do some checks on hot water systems? And I am willing to say there too, when we look at it, that if funds are to be set aside, that is what we have to look at. What is important is that we also have to do something about what we can do from the outside. We always talk so much about health. For me, it has been a little different to have a new minister and new colleagues in the Folketing to negotiate with, because I am the health rapporteur, but this is about health, which is just being added to other areas. But I am really glad that we have had the talk today and that we have got there, that some work has been started, and then I hope that we can have a talk in committee there I guess I have to be replaced, because this is the thing about getting a little from the outside, compared to where you used to be. But I hope we can do that and that we can make an agreement that we can all stand by. Thank you for the talk, and thank you again to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516171244	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516171259	The debate is open, and that is what the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516171322	Thank you. First of all, I can say that the government does not support the SF's proposal. Let me make two introductory remarks. Firstly, it is expensive to build in Denmark and it is more expensive to build in Denmark than in the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There are several reasons for this. One of them is the comprehensive regulation to which construction is subject. Therefore, it has been a focal point for changing governments in recent years to implement regulatory simplifications in construction. Secondly, it is my view in principle that the owners of parcel houses, which are typically families that build the house for their own use, should have as free a framework as possible to design the house to suit the needs of the family, as long as fundamental considerations in the building legislation, for example. safety and health and concerns in the planning legislation are observed. The existing provision on access to single-family houses was part of a major simplification package concerning the building regulations, which entered into force on 1 July 2017. My starting point for the changes was that the previous demands imposed a restriction on all homeowners and a cost of making level-free access, despite the fact that the need only arises for a slightly smaller part of the homes. And by the way, it is not much more expensive to establish level-free access afterwards if the need arises. In addition, contractors and type-house companies saw that the previous rules could in practice pose a challenge in terms of flood protection and cloudbreaks in newly built single-family houses. Having said that, I would like to stress that I actually listened to the concerns raised in the public consultation. Therefore, instead of completely removing the requirement for level-free access at the entrance doors, I chose to change it to a requirement that at least one outer door be prepared for level-free access so that level-free access can be established at one of the outer doors of the dwelling if the need arises. In practice, this means that if a single family house does not have level-free access at a door on the access floor, it must be documented by the completion of the building that it is possible to establish a level-free access at a later stage, for example. by documenting on a drawing how it can be done. The requirement for level-free access still applies to other buildings, including publicly available buildings. In addition, I think it is worth emphasising that the SF's proposal does not simply roll back the change we made per year. 1 July 2017, but further tightens the rules. With SF's proposal, it will not only be a requirement for one-family houses to establish level-free access, I can inform you that the cost of establishing level-free access into the building can cost up to DKK 13,500. On top of this, the cost of establishing level-free access can be added to the building, which can run into many thousands of kroner, depending on the nature of the concrete foundation. Thus, as the establishment of level-free access can be very costly by a requirement proposed by the SF, it could result in a failure to pay for home owners in some outlying areas to build new ones. This is because house prices in some outlying areas are so low that the additional cost of level-free access both into the building and up to the building will never be covered by a sale of the dwelling. In this way, the SF's proposal increases the Danes' construction of single-family houses, and the government opposes this. The solution that we have today, which came into force on 1 July 2017, strikes me as a good balance between three overall considerations that are at stake here: firstly, the restrictions and costs that we impose on all homeowners; secondly, the concerns raised about challenges by building on a level with the terrain while avoiding intrusive water; and thirdly, the consideration of being able, without undue inconvenience, to ensure accessibility when and if a need arises. The range of e.g. the requirements for accessibility in buildings shall be assessed on the basis of what is appropriate and proportionate in the specific situation. Such a balance should include socio-economic considerations. This is precisely the kind of balance I have made in the solution of the accessibility requirements introduced in the case of open-ended single-family houses. Overall, I think it is important that the individual owner of a single-family house should have the opportunity to opt for level-free access conditions if needed, rather than imposing a burden on the home owner of society that is often not needed. However, I also think it is essential that we continue to build for everyone when we are building buildings where everyone is going. Therefore, in the spring of 2018, I have presented a package of measures to promote accessibility in larger buildings, for example. public buildings, major housing, hotels, swimming pools, conference centres and other public places. The Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority is currently working on this work, which includes the following elements: Strengthened guidance on accessibility in construction, the possibility of functional requirements and the use of accessibility strategies in construction and the municipalities' supervision of construction, and the collection and evaluation of applicable rules. The action package shall be drawn up in cooperation with relevant organisations, including: Danish Handicap organisations, advisors and municipalities. In conclusion, I believe that there is a need to look more holistic at accessibility in construction. Accessibility cannot be reduced to a question of e.g. Level-free access. In my view, it is essential that, in order to provide good and real accessibility, we take as our starting point the concrete construction and the specific user group in order to ensure accessibility in construction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172010	Thank you very much, Minister. There is a comment from Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172016	Thank you. I have also listened to the concerns of the building industry regarding the issue of accessibility in the construction of single-family houses and, above all, the costs which construction believes it entails. Now it's like when you build the first time, it's probably gonna be okay. But the minister himself used climate change as a reason to change these rules for new construction. I'm just hearing that there are some other arguments coming in right now. I wonder whether it is not the government's view that accessibility is a prerequisite for real equal conditions in relation to people with disabilities. So if you can't get into the buildings around you, you're really cut off from social activities and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172110	I think it is important that there is accessibility to buildings where many people travel, that is. floor buildings and public properties, audiences, etc., etc. Where everyone can go, everyone should also be able to, but when we talk about single-family houses, I just think, also because of climate change, that it is a good idea to build houses raised from the ground. I don't want them lying down on the ground. The requirement we have had in the past that there should be level-free access has meant that a great many houses have been built so that they are all down on the ground. If you raise the house from the ground with a base stone or more, it follows from the old legislation that you have to make a fixed ramp up to, even if the families living in the home do not need this ramp at all. Some may also think that it is not nice or that it takes up too much space on the area where it should be. I do not think that Mrs Kirsten Normann or myself or anyone else should impose on families who do not need a ramp for their house that they should bear the cost of up to DKr 13,500. to make the ramp, because they want to be raised a little from the ground so that there will be no storm tide, or that there will be no water entering the home by cloudbreaking. I simply do not think we can afford to demand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172225	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172226	However, the proposal is precisely about exempting areas that are subject to climate constraints, on the advice of the Danish Handicap Federation, so as to maintain only the availability requirement for single-family houses where you do not have these climate change. DMI actually has some suggestions about where it is that you can still build away according to the old rules, and where it might be a good idea to make some exceptions, which could then be that you didn't have to have level-free access. It may well be that it is not the Minister and I who will decide how people are to live, but the National Association of Municipalities points out that this is going to be very expensive, because it is they who will pay the bill, the day when the family may still need an entrance to the house.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172315	I understand the SF proposal so that it is houses that are in stormy river-dangered areas that should be able to obtain a derogation from this rule. But it's not just houses in stormy river areas, that's close to the coast, that can get these problems. It's also a cloudbreak. Cloudbreaks can come anywhere, and public sewers are not very good at sucking water away at the moment. It can happen inside the country's capital, in Copenhagen, that there is water in the streets because there is cloudbreak. And then it's just too bad if you've ordered people to build down by the ground that that water penetrates directly into the houses. So the proposal does not deal with the cloud-breaking problems. With regard to the National Association of Municipalities and municipalities, which are given a cost by establishing ramps, I would say that yes, in the few cases where it is needed, the municipalities will have a cost by it. But what the SF is proposing is that everywhere there should be the cost to it. It must then only be paid for by all the many families who do not need a ramp, so that the municipalities can avoid paying in the few cases where there is a need for a ramp and where municipal subsidies are granted for it. It is a huge burden that is placed on families for the municipalities to save a small cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172430	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for insuring that all the newly built parcel houses in central Copenhagen are now more cloud-breaking-proof. It is difficult to spot them immediately, but it may be that they are somewhere. What I want to ask is whether the Minister can assure the Danish Parliament that this amendment to the building regulations is not contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Disability of Persons with Disabilities, which Denmark has agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172502	There are newly built houses everywhere in Denmark. They are located in Copenhagen in old neighborhoods where worn houses are torn down and new houses are being built everywhere. And they are also places where there is no risk of storms, but where there is a risk of clouds and where the municipalities may not have a sewage system that can take all that water. So it's a real challenge. As far as the UN Convention on Disability is concerned, the message is quite clear from my ministry: there is no conflict with the UN Convention on Disability in this area. Families are allowed to build houses suitable for living in them, and they are not obliged to build houses with level-free access so that any future resident using wheelchairs can enter. You can well prepare for level-free access so that it can be established when a future resident needs it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172557	We can thus thank the Minister. And then we welcome Mr. Kaare Dybvad and say go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172620	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the SF for making this proposal on accessibility for people with disabilities in newly built single-family houses. It is a proposal that arises from a discussion we had last summer about accessibility in houses, that is to say, by creating level-free access to outer doors in single-family houses. And what we are reading out of this proposal is that we would like to roll back the concrete change that was introduced, and thus also say to people who build parcel houses that they have to do it in a way so that it is also possible for people with disabilities to enter the houses. Then there has been a lot of consultation responses to that. This is among other things. came to the conclusion that it costs up to 12,000 kroner. to set this up, and that is, you might say, the maximum cost in a house costing 11⁄2-2 million. kr. to build from new ones. So we think that, in this area too, we can extend the opportunity for people with disabilities to get around more easily. It is basically a question of the part of social life that is going on in people's private homes and whether you are being invited. If you are a student with a disability in a school and are invited to a children's birthday • or it may be any other situation where you are invited home to a playmate or e.g. to a girlfriend, well then we think it is very natural that you should not order a lift or otherwise make all kinds of measures, but that you can enter into social life like any other person. That is also what many of the answers that have been in this hearing show. Elders The case also points out that many elderly people find it difficult to stay in their own homes and therefore they are charged some expenses later. It is the same thing that KL also notes, namely that the costs thus end up in the municipalities in the end. So basically we agree with the SF on this issue and we think it is a good proposal that we would like to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172822	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Nørhave, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516172839	Thank you. With the proposal, the Socialist People's Party wants all the new and remodelling of single-family houses to be established as a rule with level-free access. It is true, as has been mentioned earlier, that it was a requirement which was removed from the building regulations for approx. One year ago, and that is what the proposers would like to see rolled back. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are also in favour of helping those of our fellow citizens who have disabilities and who, for example, need to use wheelchairs to get around, by making their everyday life easier, and fortunately there are also many initiatives for this around many buildings and many places in public spaces. The building code BR18 literally states in the Accessibility section of the building, § 51. 3: For open-air single-family houses, there is only a requirement to prepare for level-free access at one of the building's outer doors on the ground floor. As a result, preparations have already been made for these level-free access conditions to be established. In other words, attention has been paid to those citizens who have a movement disability. Fortunately, the vast majority of citizens in this country are not dependent on a wheelchair, and therefore it would not be reasonable for every owner of a newly built single-family house to be charged with the extra cost of establishing level-free access. The comments on the motion for a resolution state: 'The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure accessibility for people with disabilities for new and rebuilt single-family houses. If it is a wheelchair user who has to buy a single-family house himself, it will of course be established at the time of construction. If it's, like, sir. Kaare Dybvad mentioned just now, in order to visit friends and acquaintances in one-family houses, I am sure that there are people there who will help a wheelchair user access that house. In addition, there are quite a few of the country's wheelchair users who have portable ramps for use precisely on visits and the like. Finally, the proposal states that it cannot be expected that the proposal will lead to special costs for municipalities in charge of the building inspectorate. I am not so sure of that, since the proposal also envisages that open-ended single-family houses can only be exempted from the provisions on access conditions when very special circumstances arise, for example. specific requirements for climate protection and conservation. The issue of climate protection takes place almost throughout the country and is necessary throughout the country. I live in the middle of Zealand myself, that's approx. 40 m above sea level, and I am glad that I do not have level-free access to my house, for then the water from some of the heavy rain showers we have had here in recent years would certainly have run into my house with all the water that has come. And then there will be a lot of applications around the country that need to be dealt with in the municipalities. It's not that free of cost. I can just say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173149	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173152	Thank you. If you have prepared level-free access in newly built houses, it only happens for the family's own residents, I think, but that limits others from being able to participate in activities at home if there is not, for example a classmate in a wheelchair for a children's birthday. Last week we actually dealt with the Socialist Minister's proposal to ratify the Disability Convention in Danish legislation, and accessibility was a theme en route • virtually from all rapporteurs, including the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so I wonder whether the issue of accessibility in the Danish People's Party depends on whether it is one rapporteur or the other rapporteur, or whether the Danish People's Party has an opinion that accessibility actually also applies to citizens, in terms of how we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173248	As I said at the beginning of my speech just now, we are very much in favour of helping the citizens we can, who have a disability, have no doubt about it. But I do not believe that we can impose the extra costs and the costs of making the ramps or the level-free access on every single family, precisely because a single big rain shower, climate change or something can help destroy an entire house. And it's actually all over the country that we have these climate changes. I know that in my own municipality we spend millions in these years climate-proofing the whole city, the whole municipality. If I, as I mentioned earlier, were to have a visit from an acquaintance using a wheelchair, I would of course help him or her into the house, but surely I cannot be supposed to change my whole house because he or she comes to visit once or twice. I don't think that's fair. I still believe that the Danes are so helpful that they will help the disabled as best they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173351	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173353	But isn't that a little bit sought? Well, I think we've reached that about 30%. of all single-family houses today are with level-free access, and so it is very many houses that would suffer from huge floods every time there was a cloudbreak. In other words, the DMI can well identify the areas that are affected, and that is also what the proposal is about: let us exclude those areas where we know there is a risk of flooding due to level-free access. However, where this is not a problem, is it not right that, in the interests of citizens with disabilities who are concerned about ensuring real equality, we should actually take this problem quite seriously? That's a lot of concern to them. And then it's really expensive for the municipalities if we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173439	Of course, the questioner may think so. But I think that we take it very seriously, precisely because, as the Minister also mentioned, it is in preparation when new houses are made; then it is clear in drawings and everything else how it should be built.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173457	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173513	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the Conservatives have asked me to greet them and just say what their position is. That is why I would like to start by saying, on the whole, that since we in both parties believe that the resolution goes too far, we cannot support it. We will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal if it is put to the vote. Having said that, I would also like to say that I think we should try today to see if we can not talk away from each other. I have talked to both those who build the houses, but also those who use them, i.e. also those who have problems with it, it may be the disabled, it may be older people, of whom, fortunately, there are more and more people who find it very difficult to access some houses just because of some stairs. It might be that we should try to have a talk with each other about it, so that we might be able to encourage more thought from the start. Many times, when I hear architects talk, they talk as if if they only knew everything in advance, there was a lot more that they could think about. So that is not a problem for them at all, because it is only a question of what it is basically that we should do from the start. Some may then think that it should be decided to say, and others may say, 'Well, can't you try to do some information campaigns, try to motivate you to do that?' At any rate, I think that since we now have the view that we want older people to stay as long as possible in their own homes, we should also bear in mind that they have friends and visitors who should also be able to come in and out. So I guess we're gonna have to discuss it somehow anyway. So, as things stand here, we cannot go into supporting it. But I think we should give it a discussion, after all, where we try, whether we cannot stop talking about each other, but instead call for that when you go into any of this, you try to solve it on that occasion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516173731	After all, this is a matter that we have been discussing relatively recently. When we did so a year ago, the criticism of the Minister for Housing, of the government, was very, very massive when the change of order was implemented which removed the provisions of the building regulations on level-free access to newly built single-family houses. So in this way it is not something SF has invented out of thin air, you might say. It is to a large extent the reintroduction of rules which until very recently were in force, and I think that is worth noting when it is referred to as a particularly imaginative proposal. It is an excellent proposal, but it is essentially a reversal of the rules that they were until recently. I remember much of the debate. I also remember that we had an interesting consultation with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, where it was illustrated how unexpected guests not only got Gevalia, but also enough to have someone carry their wheelchair up where there was no immediate access. I think we must see that we must ensure that it is also a dignified life; that equal access is granted to what is equality in a society means that the way in which people are treated should be worthy. Therefore, it must be the case that the individual of his own power, without having to be carried around, has unhindered access, including to single-family houses. We disagreed entirely with the government on this matter, as I think it has emerged, which is why we think it is a very good resolution tabled here by the SF. I am not going to roll up many of the arguments, they were rolled up at the time when the Minister changed the announcement. I would say that, of course, in the case of new construction, we must ensure that there is good accessibility for people with mobility disabilities. It is clear that when you look at the existing building stock, there can be many complications in that there must be level-free access everywhere. However, as you know, this is not what the proposal is about, but rather that, as I think the disability organisations have so well described, we will be able to adapt our entire housing stock to make it available. I also think it is important, as has already been said, that it is not only a question of the people living in the accommodation in question being given good access, but that it should also be the case that the accommodation is available to those who come to it. It is clear that to a certain extent you can decide for yourself who you want to invite. But there is also the example, which has already been mentioned, of the birthday of children to be held, and there are many examples of how important housing is for social life, and if social life is to work, it must be the case that people who have a disability can also come forward easily and unhindered. Finally, I would like to say that it is debatable, and I do not doubt when the Minister says that the Minister is being given advice that it will be in line with the UN Convention on Disability that Article 9 of the Convention on Disability nevertheless speaks of abolishing barriers and barriers to accessibility in housing. Then we can have long legal discussions about what this means here. But the intention of the disability convention is not a shadow of doubt: it is that barriers and barriers to accessibility in housing should be removed. So the short of the long: I think it would be very good if we could change the building regulations again. We think in the Enhedslisten that this is a very good proposal that the SF has put forward and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174132	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174138	Thank you. When the Minister last year changed the very rigid rules on level-free access to new and rebuilt family houses, it actually aroused great pleasure in liberal circles. It may seem like a small thing, but for people who believe that the state should interfere as little as possible and who believe that the freedom of the individual is important, it was actually a greater victory. Once again, you could decide what your own house should look like. The SF will now deprive the landowners of that right again. The aim is, of course, noble enough, but the cost is simply too high when everyone needs to be hit. I simply do not see that it is a houseowner's obligation to ensure the possible need for level-free access for a future buyer. It is to me that we should shoot grey sparrows with cannons if we are to decide again how people are to build their houses in the way we see here in the proposal. I think that in many other areas of political life we are trying to work more decisively. It has in many ways become comme il faut to say: let us solve the problems where they are, instead of always having to beat with a very big hammer at all. We know this in the environmental field and in many other areas. I think we're actually going the other way there. That is why I think it is a pity that we should have that discussion again, also relatively quickly, after the rules have changed. Of course, the landowners need to know about what the world looks like. So I'm pretty sure this proposal doesn't have even on earth right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174344	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174349	Thank you for that, President. B 128 is about accessibility for people with disabilities to new and rebuilt single-family houses. Let me begin by thanking the SF for putting forward the proposal that open-ended family houses can only be exempted from access provisions when very special circumstances arise. In fact, we support this in the alternative. As you know, Denmark has ratified the United Nations Convention on Disability and is therefore obliged to comply with the Convention's requirement to ensure future improvements in accessibility. In the alternative, we share the view that it is a mistake for the requirement of accessibility to single-family houses to be abolished. Good accessibility in construction is crucial and a social task in line with both energy efficiency and sustainable construction. Moreover, this also applies to nature, where particularly vulnerable people and people with disabilities must also be thought about in our view. In the alternative, we believe that there should be a focus on building a better understanding of why it is really important to have accessibility. Today, when we discuss accessibility, it is due to a lack of vision for the body to be different from the average and fully functional, for which we have historically designed and built houses. So when people with disabilities experience a disability, it is related to the fact that they encounter some kind of barrier. In addition, I think that we should be better able to understand that disability is not about the individual, but rather about the social structures that we are building. You often use the example of a doorbar. If we all built it 160 cm tall, most of us would hit our heads. That's why we decided it's about 2 m. But, as a society, we have the responsibility to do what we can to minimise the barriers that we put up for some groups of people, that is, how we talk to and about those who are particularly vulnerable. That is why accessibility is a question of social sustainability, where we simply fit in so that there is room for everyone. Building buildings that ensure accessibility is not necessarily more expensive or time consuming. But it could also be a good idea to talk more about more universal design rather than accessibility. In the field of universal design, they do not in principle distinguish between people with or without disabilities, and they do not make solutions targeted at one particular user group. There is a new and, in my opinion, more sustainable focus on the fact that all people have needs throughout their lives. They change, and we will all experience physical barriers at some point. In this way, accessibility will also be a question of opportunities and benefits rather than challenges. If we now look at the home like this, that it should have different stages of life, where young people may need to get around with the baby carriage, i.e. these families of children, we are so afraid of overburdening, and that later on older people should not have any difficulty getting around in life, then I really do not think that the dream and the freedom to build their dream house are in contrast to availability. So maybe we need to find new ways to think about construction. It has to be the last words from us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174714	Thank you. Then we go to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516174722	Thank you for that and thank you to the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for the fine reception of the proposal. It is absolutely true that we have been discussing this together for a long time. With a stroke of pens, the Minister of Housing abolished the requirement for accessibility for new construction of single-family houses with a change in the building regulations. This change has had a very significant impact on the availability in the future of people with disabilities, because the more housing built under the existing rules, the better the opportunities for people with disabilities to participate in ordinary family and social activities; for example, as has been mentioned several times now, a classmate in a wheelchair can also participate in the birthday. Add to this that, with the repeal of the regulations, the municipalities are also waiting for a huge bill when housing is to be rebuilt in the future to ensure the continued accessibility of citizens who may have a disability. Most recently, we have just considered a proposal from the Minister for Social Affairs on the equality of citizens with disabilities, and here too there was a great deal of focus on accessibility, both in society and also in relation to housing. Both the Danish Handicap Federation and the SF understand that there are certain climate-affected areas where there may be a need to exempt the requirement of accessibility, but with the help of the Danish Meteorological Institute it is quite possible to draw up a map where climate-loaded areas can then be exempted from the accessibility requirement, unless it has suddenly come to be more about the homeowners' own economy than we really want to create equal opportunities for citizens with disabilities. For other areas, it may be that it is both very wise and in line with real equality, because it is wise to ensure that there is real equality for people with disabilities. It is cheaper for society if we immediately reinstate the availability requirement in relation to the construction of single-family houses. Of course, the matter concerns citizens with disabilities, because we must not only be judged by our positions, we must also be judged by our actions, and that is why I had hoped that we could jointly correct the imbalance resulting from the amendment of the building regulations made by the Minister last summer. I am also listening, however, to the fact that the rapporteur of the Left calls for a fresh discussion in committee where we might find solutions, and I think that is an opportunity that we can take advantage of. In particular, with regard to people with disabilities, I regret that we did not succeed in reintroducing the accessibility requirement in relation to single-family houses, because this is, in my view, a prerequisite for our real compliance with the disability convention. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175023	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175038	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175059	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for making the proposal. I will start by informing you that the government does not support the proposal. The proposal would violate the political agreements entered into by the government on the provision of train services. This includes the extended rebugging in Central and West Jutland, etc., which was concluded on 9 June 2017 between the Government and all parties of the Danish Parliament except Enhedslisten. In addition, it will also be a breach of the agreement of 13 December 2017 on future train traffic in the metropolitan area concluded between the Government, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. The agreement on the future of rail traffic in the metropolitan area involves the provision of train traffic over the Øresund and the provision of S-train traffic for the conversion to driverless operation. The Enhedslisten explains the motion for a resolution that trains and public transport are an important task for the state, which cannot be regarded as a business but as an investment in green mobility and road congestion mitigation. Therefore, Enhedslisten considers that the train operation on the state railway lines should be returned to DSB. It must be understood that Enhedslisten considers that it is necessary to leave the train operation to DSB in order to monitor the quality of the train operation and the development of the sector in general. But that is basically a wrong assumption. Indeed, there is no contradiction between competition deferral and State control. In Denmark, the situation has been that tenders are organised with a strictly specified level of service in relation to e.g. number of departures, prices and punctuality. The quality of the train operation thus depends on the contractual requirements and economic incentives that the State places on the operators. However, contrary to a directly awarded traffic contract to DSB, operators must compete in tendering to deliver the best rail product to the State. In Central and West Jutland, the experience with tendering shows that competition exposure leads to a better punctuality and higher passenger satisfaction. At the same time, the state has saved money on contract payments. All in all, therefore, supply provides a better product in which the state saves money. Instead, the saved money can be used for other welfare benefits. In my view, therefore, a stop to tendering is the wrong way to go if you are interested in improving train operation in Denmark. Train operation is one of several legs that we must stand on in order to ensure good mobility for citizens and to address the challenges of congestion. But rail transport is also expensive, and the state spends a lot of taxpayers' money every year on rail and public transport in general. If train operations in the future are to be able to compete with new and innovative modes of transport, such as: We need to ensure that people get the best product for the money. We can only ensure this by letting operators compete to deliver the desired product at the best price. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175411	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. We go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. It was a little late for that. Should we call the minister back? We must be aware that it has to be said in time that a brief comment will be made. It's like sending out a train service. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175445	I am, of course, very sorry; I was simply dull there, but I am also glad that after all the Minister is running again. The Minister is quite right to say that, if it is adopted, this will, of course, be a breach of a number of agreements which have been concluded, and I must also say that the motion for a resolution has just as much been tabled in order to have a more fundamental discussion, including with regard to the forthcoming invitations to tender, which are clearly in the pipeline and which, for some, has also been announced in the form of agreements. The minister says "and it is often used as a reason" that we have saved a lot of money in the supply in Central and West Jutland, i.e. Arriva's traffic, and in this connection I have often, when I have come across the argument, asked: Saved in relation to what? What is it that is actually being compared to? Because when the traffic was originally put out to tender it was due to start in 2003 in Central-West Jutland, it was a completely different traffic that was bought from the one that had already taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175558	No, that is in relation to the cost of traffic in Central and West Jutland by the state while DSB was driving. You compare it with the cost of supply and the price of supply, and when you compare the two things, you can see that you have saved money, and at the same time we have seen that punctuality has increased and that customer satisfaction has increased in the area. So there seems to be a better service for less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175628	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175632	Yes, but it was a fact at the time of the tender that DSB made a significantly cheaper offer than Arriva, but that I consider it to be for political reasons and some technical arguments, considered that the bid could not be obtained anyway, and then went to Arriva, which was the second best bid in terms of prices. It is true that Arriva is currently running with great punctuality and that, on some routes, of course, DSB has some problems, but I think that apples and pears are very much compared here. Because it is a completely different traffic that DSB operates on the main rail network compared to the relatively simple traffic that Arriva runs in Central and West Jutland, and it can of course also be argued that the investments in DSB, or rather the destruction of DSB's economy by the 00s, have also played a part in how well DSB today has the opportunity to tackle the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175736	With regard to the destruction of DSB's economy by the 00s: DSB's reputation and economy, etc. I think that was mainly ruined by the fact that, in the 1990s, no decision was taken to electrify but, on the contrary, a decision was taken to buy an IC4 train. It was there that many accidents occurred and, moreover, no decision was taken on a new signalling system. Perhaps that should have been done at the time. It is true that the punctuality of the lines currently operated by DSB cannot be compared with the lines currently operated by Arriva, but the punctuality of the routes transferred from DSB to Arrival at the time of the call for tenders increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175819	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175827	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for his speech and questions and answers. Can the Minister begin by giving some examples of how the dream of full outsourcing works in relation to our neighbours or around Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175852	I'm sure I could, but I'm actually not so familiar with what's going on outside the country's borders. I am much more familiar with what is happening within the borders of the country, and there is no need to look abroad when we can just look inland. It works very well in Central and West Jutland with supply, it works very well in the metro with supply, and it will also work very well in the places we now make additional offers, for example. on Vejle-Struer and Odense-Svendborg, and in relation to S-trains it will also work very well. We only have good examples in Denmark with the supply of train operations, and therefore there is no reason to look abroad. But I'm sure there are many places abroad where it also works very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175929	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516175931	Thank you. I am not of the opinion that we can separate it from Denmark and abroad, because when we outsource it is abroad that comes into the field and into the Danish market, and when we look at the actors involved in outsourcing in other countries, it is almost other nation states. Thus, Arriva is owned by the German state. But then we have to look at: What have they done? After all, they have invested heavily in their traffic and public transport. So why are we thinking that we should not do that and then we can just buy their services? So my question again is: can we separate it internationally/nationally when other nation states just come in and do the job in Denmark for us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180024	We also invest massively in Denmark. We lay new rails, we electrify rails, we create a new signal system, we buy new trains, and when all this is done, we will have a really good train operation in Denmark. We do not have that today, but we will have it in the future as a result of the decisions we are taking today. It works very well in Central and West Jutland, where Arriva has won the offer sometimes. Now we have to start re-offers, and then we see who wins there, and it does not matter that Arriva is owned in Germany. It still works out very well, and besides, I don't really get it. Roger Courage Matthisen's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180103	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Now there are no more questions. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180112	Thank you for that, President. There was a British Prime Minister who once said that liberalisation of rail is too far. It was Margaret Thatcher, who otherwise is the queen of liberalisation internationally. And that is actually how we feel in the Social Democratic Party too. We believe that the liberalisation of rail is too far. In Denmark we have basically three different rail systems on ordinary railways. We have DSB, we have those who have been put out to tender, and then we have the local lanes, i.e. those that are called private lanes, but which are, in fact, more regional and more public lanes. If you look at those who have been tendered, it is true, as has been said, that Arriva or Deutsche Bahn's operation in Central and West Jutland works quite well, but if you go back and look at the supply of the coast track, which was won by a consortium of DSB and the Scottish company First Group, i.e. both a private and a public player, that did not go very well with the offer. There are many commuters on the coast track and other places that would have liked to have been this offer besides. Similarly, you can see outside the country's borders. Now the Minister was not so much for it, but I would like to mention England as an example, which went from a public to a private train operation and had very serious problems with it. It is not, of course, because a private train operation is necessarily bad, it can work in many places, but the shift from one type of train operation to another type of train operation is therefore associated with many problems. In the Social Democratic Party we want a model inspired by the Swiss railway system, which is the most timely and one of the most cost-effective rail operators in Europe, which means that we will have a unified infrastructure and rail structure, and that means that we will have an investment in the railways to ensure that they are competitive in relation to many of the other modes of transport, as there are, but also that the large part of the railway operation is in the hands of the state. Then you can have a Lollands track, or you can have Northern Jutland Railways, which take on the operation of some smaller lanes. You can then have a variation in it, but we are not going to have competing trains running on the same rails and in that way. So that is our basic position with regard to rail in Denmark, but we also have it in the way that the way we develop this and the way the tradition of transport is, of course, taking that discussion in committee and taking the discussion at the negotiating table. That is actually our starting point here, and that is why we would at least like to wait to cast it here in concrete form and then instead take this discussion in committee before we finally report on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180419	There are a few questions. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180425	Okay, that was an interesting rapporteur's speech, I think. After all, it is no longer than that we saw a statement by the Group Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, in September last year, when he clearly announced that it would be the end of the invitation to tender, and that even one should go so far as to gather DSB and Banedanmark. DSB was to be the only operator on the rail network, and DSB and Banedanmark were to be brought together. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether these are statements or statements which, if I may say so, stand up and are something that we can, like, take into account in our discussions in the future, both in committee and in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180510	Thank you, and I am glad if I can also entertain the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I will put it that way that this announcement is in effect, but we are not working in the social democracy in such a way that there will be a revolution tomorrow. We are in some agreements, among others. of course we respect them, and then we take things one step at a time. When I mentioned the Swiss example, and when I mentioned that you want infrastructure and operation together, it is precisely because the division of Banedanmark and DSB, as has been the case, has not worked optimally, and we think that they should be reunited.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180544	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180547	I am incredibly in agreement and clearly also have the Swiss railway company and railway operation in general as a model. Moreover, I believe that a great many people do, because they are appointed to be number one in the world with the Japanese. I would say that I was surprised at the time when Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen made these announcements because only four months before, an agreement had been made on the further supply of railway services in Denmark at the re-offers of Mid-West, where a few of DSB's tracks, the Svendborg railway and the track between Vejle and Struer were then just nicked. This gave rise to great wonders, because we did not think there was any coherence, and that is why I ask what status, if I may say so, Mr President. Henrik Sass Larsen's reports were back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180647	After all, the Gospel of Luke says that one in heaven is more fond of 1 reversed sins than 99 saved, so if it is also true in the Group Room of Enhedslisten, I assume that the 14 who sit there are more fond of that message. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180703	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180705	I am glad that the Social Democratic Party clearly states that you do not support the state-communist railway doctrine, which is actually being proposed with this motion for a resolution, where it is all cast in concrete. On the other hand, I have to admit that I understand that Enhedslisten is a little confused, because last autumn there suddenly came a message from the high level of the Social Democratic Party that now there should be a call-out stop, yes, in fact one was prepared to roll things back, so that virtually everything had to go back into the hands of the state. Therefore, when it sounds as if the Social Democratic Party has a lukewarm attitude to this, whether you are not happy with the agreement we reached in June 2017 to re-bid the train operation in Central and West Jutland, including the Svendborg railway and the track between Struer and Vejle, based on the good experiences that have been gained. Are you basically happy with that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180804	Well, I can tell the rapporteur of the Left that we are happy with all the agreements we have made and we stand at a hundred percent target for them, but we have therefore made the political decision that we are working towards a railway company that brings Banedanmark and DSB together in a large model, as is the case in Switzerland, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180821	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180822	I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats believe that something good comes from merging Banedanmark and DSB. After all, these are two mastodons who sometimes have some problems with efficiency • DSB is in the process of streamlining, and Banedanmark has been fighting with some problems. I am very surprised that the Social Democrats really believe that something good is coming out of merging them, also because the fact that they were separated at the time was actually based on EU rules, which say that there must be a separation between infrastructure, that is, the owner and the manager, on the one hand, and those who drive the trains, on the other. That is actually why we have two different companies. Does the Social Democratic Party really think that there will be something good coming out of merging DSB and Banedanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180910	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen asks, and I would say that I have had the pleasure of driving trains in Germany with Deutsche Bahn, and that is a real pleasure. It's a huge infrastructure company... the second largest in the world after DHL... and they're running with a speed, efficiency and comfort that we can only dream of... and that works on this basis, where you've merged two companies. So if Deutsche Bahn, who is such a big company that when you go from summer time to winter time, you have to keep all trains quiet because otherwise there is chaos in the system, can be operated in that way, then I think DSB can be operated in that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180953	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516180958	Thank you. This proposal from the Enhedslisten is, of course, a rather strange proposal, because things are going a little bit right, and I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested himself said a little about the fact that has already been adopted. EU legislation is also a little right. Mr. Henning Hyllested and Dansk Folkeparti may not care more, but it does. Now Margaret Thatcher was just as beautifully quoted, and she said many wise things. Among other things, she said that a socialist is someone who at some point runs out of other people's money. And that's what this is about. So it is also about economics. If we can get better and if we can get cheaper train operation by outsourcing it, the Danish People's Party is positive, but we are not in favour of just such an ideological outsourcing of train lines. We also believe that the infrastructure should be maintained in the hands of the state, but who is performing the actual train operation we are quite open to looking at also forward-looking • beyond the agreements we have already made. Then you mention Switzerland. Yes, but I also believe that it is the country in Europe that receives the largest subsidies from the Treasury, and I do not want to support a railway operation that is further based on taxpayers' money. We also need to look at what we can get for the money and, above all, what we can get for the benefit of passengers. Now some people mentioned that they had been driving trains in Germany. Most recently I drove a train from St Petersburg to Helsinki, and it was a fantastic train. Unfortunately, Denmark is not even close to having that. It has to be said that for a number of reasons, for example: Changing governments, the Danish train operation has been mistreated. DSB has certainly not exactly helped itself either. So there are many reasons why we have the situation we have today with a miserable train operation in Denmark. It's imprecise, and it's too expensive. There are many reasons for this, but DSB has at least proven on a long stretch that there are some things they're not really able to do in this. Two things can be done, I would say to Mr. Henning Hylllested. If DSB can't do the job, you can adapt the job to what DSB can do, and then let somebody else take over the rest. That is very much what we have done in Central and West Jutland. Today there is a terrible material situation in DSB with old IC4 trains. Most of the MR trains have now been phased out since 1978, but they left until six months ago on some lines. It may well be that DSB, with the trains of the future and these new purchases coming, the electrification of the railway, etc., will be better at solving their tasks. I certainly hope that they will do so on the routes they are once allocated. We are not in the Danish People's Party, but we would like to do so with sense and thoughtfulness and where it can be a joy and benefit to both the Treasury and the passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181328	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181329	With regard to this question of whether or not DSB is doing the job well, I think we agree that there is scope for improvement, quite clearly. But it could also be related to DSB smashing up its economy through the '00s, so when you came to 2010, 2011, you had a billion-dollar debt. 18 billion kr. I think it was all up in there at the time. And DSB was actually close to bankruptcy, as I just remember. So I guess it also has something to do with the fact that, from a political point of view, we also know about due diligence and get investment in railway operations in time. I would just like to ask some of what Mr. Kim Christiansen says that Switzerland also spends an awful lot of money on it, and that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in providing additional subsidies to the Treasury. But is Mr. Kim Christiansen does not agree that there are some social needs and that rail and public transport in general do not make any profits, yes, it does on a few sections, but on the whole it does not make profits, and certainly not such places as when we get outside the main rail network?
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181441	I believe that, on the vast majority of routes, some form of subsidy is needed in order to have good public transport. Few routes can rest in themselves. But we have seen, among other things. in Central and West Jutland that it could therefore be done for less money than DSB should have for it. Therefore, it may sometimes make sense to consider invitations to tender. I know, sir. Henning Hyllested is insanely fond of DSB, this great mastodon is a colossal on clay feet, or whatever you want to call it. I think it is also a very costly organisation. Now Mr. Henning Hyllested 00's, but it turned out, when at one point a management came up with this problem and got slimmed DSB and maybe started running it a bit like a business and not so much as a board that you also started making money out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181540	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181542	No, I'm not necessarily fond of big mastodons. Nor do I know how big a mastodon DSB can be in a small country like Denmark. But so, no, I am not, but I am glad that there is a link in public transport, and I think that is best created by having a state company that operates rail services throughout the country. I think that everyone who has drove by train is going to do it myself, having problems with the fact that there is no connection between, for example. DSB's and Arriva's operations or, for that matter, Arriva's operations and bus operations around the regions. So it's to create this connection that I think it can be a sensible idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181626	Yes, but then maybe you should try to start by having coherence in your own operation. One thing is that it may not have been possible to clear the agreements completely with some transport companies on buses that have to come in with passengers or pick up passengers, and it may well be that you have not completely cleared it with Arriva in some places, but I think that the biggest problem far along the way is that DSB has not cleared it with itself at very many stations because you are either late or too early, what happens rarely. But you have an incredible number of delays, many cancellations, and that means that what should actually fit together within your own organisation does not even fit together. So there may be room for improvement internally also in relation to the cohesion force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181716	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516181723	Thank you, sir. President. The Enhedslisten proposes with this proposal that the government should stop all supply of train operations in Denmark. Thus, it is proposed that current procurement contracts continue until they expire, but that the operation is then handed over to DSB. Let me make it clear straight away that the Left cannot support this proposal. I should like to greet my good colleague Andreas Steenberg and say that neither can the Radical Left. This is clearly an ideologically-marked proposal. It is inspired by the Soviet railway operation, where you have it all assembled under the state in such a command structure, and then you have everything under control, and then it just runs. The only problem is that it doesn't work that way in reality. Left thinks it's our DNA, it's our philosophy that competition is healthy. It's healthy to ask about the price. Whether you have to buy a new house or you have to buy a car or you have to buy some train service on behalf of the population, it is healthy to ask about the price. That is our basic position. Political responsibility comes in, because of course we should not just put this into practice for happiness and piousness. It is a clear political responsibility to make demands on train operations on behalf of the people: make demands. That was among other things. What we forgot when we set out the coast track, which was certainly not a major success, I must admit my Socialist colleague. It wasn't a success. It was because we made some foolish demands. We simply made demands that could not be done in reality. Among other things: the stopping times could not be done at all. When problems arose and they called Dr. Hess from Switzerland so that he could come up and analyze what was wrong, he immediately saw that it was quite wrong and that it could not be done at all, and asked why it had been offered in that way. So when you offer, you have to think very carefully, because otherwise it won't be a success. But that is not an argument for not asking the price, and we have done so. So it is the politicians who are making the demands, and then it is up to the operator to deliver the goods and to be stopped delivering the goods based on it. It is common sense when it comes to houses and cars, and it is common sense when it comes to rail. Then you have to understand the Enhedslisten's proposal that, if you had to implement it, it would in fact mean a roll-back of the agreements that have been concluded, among other things. in June 2017, when a broad majority chose to be behind the re-offers of the mid- and west Jutland railway operation from December 2020. I am glad that the Social Democrats are in that agreement, so it is broadly based. It is no wonder that the parties have chosen to re-offers it, because it is a huge success. I remember that when we started talking about offering it, there was an outcry it would be totally chaotic, and it was quite awful that one would now ask about the price. But the truth is that it has been a great success in Central and West Jutland. We have got a better and cheaper train operation for the benefit of both passengers and taxpayers. Then there are some who ask: What about experiences from abroad? It's the same experience. If we take the experience of the German regional railways, we have saved from 20 to 30 per cent. In this context, it should be pointed out that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that, in the present case, it is not necessary to take into account the fact that, in the present case, it is not necessary to take into account the nature of the infrastructure in question. This is the experience of Germany, and there are other experiences. Then there are some experiences from England. Then, too, a stupidity was made, because, of course, we should never let the infrastructure be privatised. It's supposed to be in state hands. That was the roar that was made in Britain, namely that some worn-out rails were also left to private operators. And, of course, they are not so motivated to keep them in condition, and it is of course the prerequisite for a sensible train operation that the rails are in tip-top condition. That is what went wrong in Britain. This was not due to the principle of the offer, but to the fact that the infrastructure was also transferred to the private sector. I don't think anyone could dream of doing that in Denmark. The rails must be in the hands of the state. Then it's been up whether we spend money on the railroad. Yes, indeed! I mean, there's such a picture being painted that we're kind of saving it to death. DSB gets over 4 billion. kr. per year in grants from the Treasury. That's quite a lot of money. Then, of course, it is frustrating that you still have to have such high fares. But the taxpayers actually pay a lot of money for DSB's operations. There is such hope, because I have heard DSB announce that by 2030 you will be able to do without state subsidies, and that is very good, because suddenly we have 4 billion. kr. more a year to pick with e.g. for forward-looking investments. So I look forward to that very much. When we talk about the construction side, we also spend a lot of money on the railroad, and we have done so together. Most parties have put their backs on, among others. to set aside money for a whole new signal system. It's a little slow to get it rolled out, but it's gonna come, because we're gonna have to get to what we're gonna have to do. We've set aside a lot of money for that. We have set aside money for new courses around Denmark. We've set aside money for upgrades. In fact, in recent years we have spent far more than half of the state road construction costs on the railway, despite the fact that it is less than 10%. of the traffic work carried out on the track. We cannot, of course, continue to do so, which is why it is now becoming the turn of the roads. And, as some have said, we must also correct the historical mistake made in 1999 when the red parties jointly chose to impose the purchase of IC4 trains. We are now correcting this with the purchase of new reliable electric trains, and this time we are calling for them to be able to drive. That is an important requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182259	Yeah, that's probably a good idea. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182303	Yeah, I guess that's a really good idea. I would like to say something about the rapporteur's comment that it was very good that DSB had, as it were, provided that it was possible to drive without subsidies by 2030. I would like to see that before I believe it, but if it is up to believers, it was clearly on the condition that it is with the current driving that you have, with the current routes you are driving, including the S-train and Øresund traffic, and what do I know? After all, these are some of the things that are facing supply, and that is not really connected. Therefore, you will also find that if you do that, you will have to continue to provide subsidies to allow DSB to drive elsewhere. The rapporteur says that it is good to have a price check and all that and it is good to have competition, but the problem is actually that driving on rail is not like driving on a road. There's no free competition. You can't just go and drive out there and don't care, can you? In other words, the rapporteur knows all about the channels, and then you have a train track. That is why, in my opinion, the situation is completely incomparable, and that is why I believe that supply and so-called price checks, or price checks, can always be sensible, but supply as a means of price checks is not applicable on the railways, where there are two tracks, one each way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182434	I strongly disagree with that. You set up a few conditions. Here we have an infrastructure and it is made available in accordance with these and these conditions, and here we have some requirements on behalf of passengers, which are defined, and then you ask about the price. Of course it can be done. And that is also what has been done with great success in Central and West Jutland, so I very much disagree with Enhedslisten. As far as DSB's future is concerned, I think DSB is in a good process. And the many employees in DSB work hard every day to make it work, and it is distressing to them that they have something that does not work properly, among other things. IC4 and now aging trains. We just have to say that the railways are not in order in Denmark at the moment, and all we can say is that it will not be better in the first few years. We might as well honestly acknowledge this rather than stand and pretend that it will be better just around the corner. It doesn't. It doesn't get any better until we get some new trains that run reliably, and that's why you can only feel sorry for the DSB employees who work hard every day to make it work as well as possible. But I see that DSB has turned the economy around, and that is why I do not want to say that it is unrealistic that they should reach the point where they should not receive subsidies anymore. I think that is actually within reach. And then there is the question of whether we should offer more. Now we have chosen to re-offers Midt- og Vestjylland, and we have offered the S-train network in Copenhagen, where DSB will also have an important role in the coming many years. In addition, we can talk about whether we should offer distance trains. There I would say: no, we should not throw more balls into the air right now in a situation where we need to have a new signal programme, power lines and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182613	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182614	The rapporteur is right in saying that the economy has turned for DSB. First of all, it turned from 2011 until 2015, because at that time there were some transport ministers who started this and the miserable economy that DSB had come out with through the 00s. There one can then discuss what the reason was for it • I have sort of touched upon it a little bit. Then the rapporteur also calls it an ideological proposal and compares it with such a Soviet structure of command. I have to say that this is obviously the structure of command which is then used in the vast majority of countries where train operations are actually under state control and are carried out by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182702	Now I have had a long life in the army, so I haven't seen anything against command structures in the army, but when it comes to train operation, I think it's good to ask at regular intervals about the price of getting the best possible service at the lowest possible price. But you always have to do it with great care, and that's where I think we can meet. We have to think very carefully every time we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182721	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516182731	Thank you. I'm glad to come after Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. I think he made a fantastic speech. I think it was a good thing that we were able to touch on the conditions that are abroad. In fact, no matter where you look into the world, there is no evidence to say that more monopoly and more state provide more efficient rail services. We do not need to go further than the Red Government, that is to say the previous government's own Commission, namely the Productivity Commission, which stated that the area of all areas where it is best to serve by tender is the railway operation in Denmark. The Swedish railway, we could read in Jyllands-Posten Monday, runs without subsidies and has had an increase of 7%. in 2017. The Danish railway, which gets 4 billion. kr. in support, lost 2%. in the passenger numbers in 2017. In other words, the examples hang like pearls on a leash when it comes to the arguments that competition leads to more passengers and more satisfied passengers and lower prices. I get it, sir. Henning Hylllested, among others. in one of the questions that competition is something special on a railway that one cannot really have. I do not know whether one should understand it in the sense that because the trains cannot bypass each other, they cannot compete, or what is the logic? Is it because you drive from A to B on some rails and not on a road that it is not possible to discuss competitive elements or the advantages of competition? I would like to clarify at some point what the logic is behind it. It's complete, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned, so that one can of course define some conditions and then see who can do the best. Of course, we are not going to sell rails and stations and, for that matter, ticket systems. We must have the important infrastructure ourselves, and it is the operators who must be allowed to compete, precisely under the conditions that we, as a society, impose. This is exactly the cocktail that we think we should mix up more competition within a framework that we decide. Let me just get one example of the fact that it has not gone in the right direction. I would almost like to turn it around and say that if we do not do something if we want more DSB and more state monopoly, we can be absolutely sure or, as was said in a debate in a slightly funny remark... now I do not have to quote the person concerned... risk that there will be no passengers left in 2030. So, instead of having more DSB and more state, it is actually the opposite that we have to do if we are to save the railroad. There are probably not many who disagree with the fact that the Danish railway is not doing very well, and I also agree with Mr Van Miert. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen in that the bad news is that it's going to get worse. It's the only thing that's for sure. It's not going well today, and it's definitely gonna get worse. I think it is the SF's rapporteur who has very rightly described the railway as Denmark's largest construction site for the next 10 years. We know what that means, because if it is not signals, it is electrification or alignment of the rails that is the reason why we get worse regularity. The railways are not feeling well, but should we then use the medicine that is here in the resolution and say that we need more of the same for things to go well? I will turn it around and say that if we have to save the railroad, we have to give it competition. We have to do what every other society does, we have to do what the smartest people in this area have said we have to do. You have said that where we can earn the most money by working on tenders is in the rail sector. It says something about how far back we really are, when the prize is the biggest in that area, when we talk about cleaning and everything else when we outsource. So it is exactly the opposite that is needed. It's not that we have to offer this all at once. I certainly don't believe that. It's got to be some delineated units and at a rate so we can keep up. But to come and say that we save the railroad by getting more monopoly and denying the truth that competition has always brought lower prices and more satisfied customers here in Denmark is a bit of an absurd theater to participate in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183255	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183256	There came here not long ago a tender analysis which should try to analyze the different scenarios that could be around tender. It has to be said that the most liberal model clearly showed that if you did, it would mean fewer trains, more crowded trains and also more expensive trains. I think that was the sixth scenario. There were, of course, a number of things in between, but that is the way it is going if we liberalise, as I understand the rapporteur's wish. We also need to be aware of the competition that trains are exposed to from cars and car traffic. It is clear that the majority in this House have chosen to bet on roads, asphalt and on cars and to make cars cheaper, and of course it will have a spill-over effect on the number of passengers on the trains. After all, every time you generate more cars, you also undermine the passenger footprint for the trains. So that is also part of the competition that rail transport is facing. Railway operations are extremely dependent on political decisions. After all, it is political decisions that mean that there are shines where they lie and that there are also signals and booms and the kind of things that make you even able to drive on the tracks. It is also political decisions that mean that there is the speed at which you can drive and that there is it and the train track. After all, all these things are extremely important. They do not play a role in road traffic in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183444	That is absolutely correct. You cannot see the train operation isolated from the car sector and the road sector, that is quite correct. But what is not correct is that we have invested solely on roads and cars. I think Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned that a moment ago. We've spent a lot more money, almost two thirds. When the green transport reconciliation was presented by the current Prime Minister in 2009, I can clearly remember that he said: two thirds are green and one third black. It was meant to be that of those little 100 billion. kr. Two thirds went to public transport. Despite the fact that the trains account for 8-9 per cent. of the total transport kilometer, if you measure it like that, then we spend two thirds on them. We know from the calculations in the Ministry that operating costs are about ten times the ten times the ten times when you move by train rather than when you move on the roads. We used to talk about plants. It is therefore incredibly expensive to transport relatively few people when it is on fixed wheels, as I have heard a professor say, rather than on rubber wheels. There's a world of difference. So it is wrong that the railroad has not been invested. The problem is that we have spent a lot of money and got very, very little out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183618	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183619	When in 2009 the big transport reconciliation was made, like among others. With new signals and a new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted etc., it was precisely in recognition that investments in the railway had been neglected through the 00s, for that matter also earlier, but above all through the 00s. Investment in the railway had been neglected. On top of the hat was the IC4 scandal, so it's part of the picture. That is why, of course, there were many sensible decisions in the large-scale transport agreement there back in 2009, but it requires substantial investment. We know it's expensive. At that time, however, the ambition was, in fact, that the vast majority of passenger growth or transport growth should take place in public transport, including to a large extent on railway operations. But since then it has gone the other way, among other things. Because, if I may say so, we have changed track in traffic policy and are now aiming at roads and asphalt relatively unilaterally. Signals and new lanes etc. is back from the time when it was thought that public transport should now be the focus. You should've just held on to that. That this has happened as it has been, yes, I suspect that it is now also due to a lack of competence both in Banedanmark and for that matter in DSB.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183735-2	In fact, I agree with the latter. It is complex and there are guaranteed both competence and management problems associated with the fact that we can make as little of the money in public transport as we do. I think I'll leave it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183800	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516183804	Thank you for that, President. B 129 is about stops for the provision of train traffic in Denmark. This is a complex discussion, and we can also hear that from today's debate. And it is in this way very good that Enhedslisten has put forward the proposal, because it gives us an opportunity to discuss this complex situation for Denmark. On the whole, in the alternative, we agree that public transport is an important task for the state. As such, it should not be seen as a business, yet still. After all, the benefits of having a greater state responsibility are that the profits generated can be reinvested in green mobility. It was something that worried us about the future of rail traffic in the metropolitan area that we will often see, when there is a call for tenders, that what they can turn on to make money is wages and working conditions, and that does not benefit employees. So what is it at the expense of us outsourcing? Collective transport, public transport, must counteract congestion, discourage motorism, which is why I think we are doing things in the wrong order. I know that a number of other rapporteurs have put forward that, among other things. Mr. Karsten Hønge, namely that we are in the process of lowering the tariffs on the Storebælt Bridge before we begin that there is a third track and a runway that must be laid first. When we already have traffic jams and when we already have challenges with congestion, then we do so in the wrong order. We also need to recognise that we are still not talking enough about climate in relation to public transport and what it can do for us in the challenges we face. And so I still have to hear that from the Minister for Transport in an overall plan, a long-term vision. It's complicated. Road pricing is also an opportunity that we need to discuss in order to again address congestion and influence behaviour towards public transport. And yes, it gets worse before it gets better with all the construction projects we have in Banedanmark and DSB. So it's complex. The alternative is not against outsourcing, but we do not believe that there is necessarily anything wrong with Arriva continuing. That is why we have also supported the re-offers in Central and West Jutland. Yeah, we need to get outcasts smart, they don't have to hollow out DSB, we agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184108	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184110	It is now more like this for information, for Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen called for such an overall plan for climate and environment in relation to the transport sector. I am incredibly in agreement and certainly not happy with the developments that have taken place in the Ministry of Transport, where they say: it is not our table, it belongs to the ministries of climate and the environment, and what it is called. But I can inform Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen said that there actually is such an overall plan. It's called roadmap for climate and environment in transport. It was almost finished in 2015, and then it was scrapped by the then Transport Minister. This was a very good example of the fact that the Ministry of Transport actually took its task of assessing the impact of the transport sector on our climate and environment seriously. And there were several proposals on how to reduce the emissions of the transport sector and, in general, influence climate and environment, I think there were four major sections with proposals. So it's real. It was just scrapped in its time, and we haven't been able to pull it forward since. I had the pleasure of having the Minister of Transport in the Chamber at some point. It is a long time ago now that I asked a little about it, but I got the answer that climate and environment are no longer the Minister of Transport's table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184237	Thank you for your information, sir. Henning Hylllested. I fully agree, and I also wonder why the Minister of Transport believes that climate is not part of the minister's table. Climate must be part of our table, for your sake, for our children and our grandchildren. We had the pleasure of being at a conference on freight transport a few days ago, where we had Michael Svane now I quote, for then I can curse on the platform or speak a little harshly, saying that there has been no ass in the pants in the Folketing to talk about road pricing or to implement a national scheme or at least an experimental scheme. And maybe we should take and develop some of that k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184348	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184358	Over the years, especially in the municipalities, the right wing hits completely when they set certain percentage limits for tendering and privatisation. I do not think it makes sense to create quota arrangements for the outsourcing of joint tasks. But as much as I think it is over to propose a complete ban on any tender, for example. of train operation. In the view of the SF, which tasks are best suited to the local, regional or state level or may be carried out by state-owned companies or by purely private companies, there are no such limits forever. SF does not have a religious relationship with which parts of e.g. the railway which may be operated by DSB and which lines may be tendered. Our experience is that large state organizations can actually benefit from experiencing new thoughts, new ways of organizing work. For example, I was on such a self-organized solo study trip to England three quarters of a year ago, where I was among others. met with a number of different professional organisations with people who are connected to the railway in different ways. From them there was a clear signal: be serious about privatisation! For they are drawn with some dramatic experiences after privatisation, where a large part of the railway has been destroyed. In SF's view, the basis for our rail should be DSB. The railway is absolutely crucial social infrastructure and therefore best suited to social ownership, even if we do so through indirect ownership. However, we also believe that smaller restricted areas can benefit from tendering. It can, for example, be done. be the pilot scheme in North Jutland, where the region has now become an important operator. SF is also part of the settlement, where we offer part of the train operation in Central and West Jutland, and I would also like to say that the situation with the Svendborg railway, which for years was mistreated by DSB, made it obvious also to send that track in to see if others could do better. I would also be surprised if things could be worse. At the same time, we want to say about any tender, that it must, of course, first and foremost respect all the rules we set up in the supply, but also the conditions we have in the labour market in Denmark. On the other hand, we do not think that the S-trains in the metropolitan area should be put out to tender or put them out to tender. The objective is, after all, more and better and cheaper trains on time, and it depends on whether we have a political majority that will invest the necessary economy. For SF, however, it is first and foremost the citizens, first and foremost the passengers, and what is best for those who are at the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184717	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184722	Now Mr. In fact, Karsten Hønge has a little to say about it, but just for the record, I'd like to ask if Mr. Hønge... Karsten Hønge recognizes, or about Mr. Karsten Hønge understands that one of the dangers of supply and procurement is that it can affect pay and working conditions, for example. is one of the reasons why the European Transport Workers' Federation is extremely sceptical, not to say directly against the fact that these invitations to tender are taking place, which are largely run by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184756	It is quite obvious that this is one of the challenges facing us. There are others besides them, and we could see it in relation to the coast lane, but there were other things in the outsourcing material that you hadn't awake for. However, it is quite obvious that in some places outsourcing or privatisation has led to reduced pay and working conditions. I do not think we have come across them in this way at home, because there we have had a sufficiently strong trade union movement that has been able to make agreements on it; for example, Arriva's agreements are no worse than that of the DSB. In some respects, they are put together a little differently, but the bottom line is that they are basically the same in economic terms for the employees. That is why I would be nervous if we had a trade union movement that was completely on our heels, and if at the same time we had a clear majority on the right in Danish politics, because the two things in combination would make me very nervous about outsourcing, but that is not the situation we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184850	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184851	Just for information, I would like to say that in connection with the transfer of traffic to North Jutland, and I also agree that what is going on in North Jutland is very interesting. I believe they are in order at this stage, but it took a very long time, and there were attempts, like undermining some of the working conditions that existed for the former DSB employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184918	That's right, but that's the way it is. Even here with a public employer like the Region of North Jutland, there are some who each time look at whether they can let go a little cheaper, or whether they can make some agreements where they can sort of run away from the agreements that were otherwise. But we have to look at what our concrete experience in Denmark is, and there I actually think that the combination of a strong trade union movement and a majority in the Danish Parliament often also applies in the regions and municipalities that will hold their hands under the organised labour market, making me not so nervous about a tender.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516184949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516185004	Conservatives are, of course, opposed to Enhedslisten's proposal. There are basically two factors that have driven the prosperity of the world. One is technological progress, and the other is that we have become better at organising ourselves. In a very, very primitive economy, you make everything yourself as an individual. You make your own food and clothes and your own tools, and then you use what you can now produce yourself. In a more advanced economy you specialize, and then you do different tasks. In a well-organised, efficient and rich economy you are not only specialised, but you also make sure that those who are best at performing the tasks are the ones who carry them out. This is done through competition, i.e. by ensuring that there is access for different players to bid to perform different tasks, and then it is they who are best to do what they do through competition. This is, of course, the mechanism that Enhedslisten will put out of effect by guaranteeing that it must be the public who has to carry out the train operation, even though there may be others who are better equipped to carry out the task. This then means that one misses having an effective distribution of tasks in our society and that it will not be the most suitable ones to carry them out, but that, from the start, it will be locked up to be the public. It makes you poorer. This simply means that we will have less prosperity in our society than if we make sure that there is a distribution of tasks, so it is they who are best to solve them. That is why it is completely wrong thinking that Enhedslisten has and, of course, we cannot support it on the part of Conservatives. We welcome the competition, we welcome the fact that there are others other than just DSB who want to bid to handle the train operation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516185212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We shall now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516185234	Thank you. I have to say that the debate has not shown that there is such cheerful support behind the proposal. It is just before I say: perhaps on the contrary, but I am still a little surprised. I actually expected that we would be relatively alone. After all, that is not my impression of the debate. I have noticed the contribution of the Social Democrats, who are quite fully in favour of Mr Tugendhat's report. Henrik Sass Larsens, the chairman of the group, announced last September. I think that was quite interesting, because at that time it brought some confusion in the ranks, at least in our ranks, since it was only 3-4 months since the agreement on the supply of Mid-West had been made with the extension of DSB's route between Vejle and Struer and Svendborgbane. I have also noticed one, what should we call it, kindly, good post from the Alternative, which I thought was essential to take along, and I also think the SF is certainly very nuanced in the approach to this. After all, we are of the opinion that rail traffic is best placed to be in the public, state hands, just as other important infrastructure in our view should be that of the roads, for example, the water supply, the electricity supply, and many other things could be mentioned. It was a little interesting when Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen announced in September 2017, that now you had to assemble the railway operation, now you had to put it together in one company, which included both trains and rails, that is to say you had to reassemble DSB and Banedanmark. It was based on an argument that it was simply not a way to go and that a better and more efficient system was not achieved and that the way it had happened simply did not work out where he drew direct lines for both the sale of TDC and Copenhagen Airports and PostNord, where he said directly that one would not have to end up in the same soupdas that PostNord had ended up in. As he said at the time, if the current natural public monopoly were to be further challenged, that would be the situation. We were in the Enhedslisten very much in agreement with Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen. We believe, in fact, that fragmentation, fragmentation make it more difficult to operate efficiently, and we think that was also part of the discussions we had when I was still in the discussions about the supply of Mid-West, when we discussed the route between Vejle and Struer, where there was, of course, a desire and a demand for some direct trains to be retained. It was not good and it was a clear recognition that it was not good to have more operators running on the same rails. This would result in a lower punctuality. So it is also a recognition that is, and I think that should be noted. In our opinion, it also makes it more difficult to link public transport, and we think that there are a lot of examples I have mentioned on some of them in my questions. Then it also makes it harder to achieve economies of scale. It is clear that if you split it up and make it all smaller units, it is of course difficult to achieve economies of scale. Even Arriva has acknowledged this in connection with the supply of Mid-West, as there is also an opportunity for VLTJ to drive on Arriva's routes to Ringkøbing-Skjern. In fact, Arriva has an opinion that economies of scale are being affected, and I fully agree with Arriva on that. It is funny that they do not have the same organisation in relation to their own bids on DSB's routes, but it is probably also a little politically determined in Arriva. In our view, the fragmentation is well advanced and we find that unfortunate. We have the Mid-West, which we are talking a lot about, now with the extension of the Vejle-Struer track and the Svendborg railway, and I think that this is an unfine way of doing this to DSB, simply keeping DSB out of bidding, as DSB had already said that they would not offer Mid-West traffic, that is to say on Arriva's current traffic. They have reported this a long time ago, almost several years ago, after which you take the Mid-West offer and expand it with some of DSB's sections. They could then have been separated into separate invitations to tender, so DSB might have had the opportunity to offer them. What you did here was a little uncomfortable, I think. Then there is Nordjylland, where Nordjyllands Trafikselskab is owned by Nordjylland Region, which has taken over it. We have the local lanes where, as I said, VLTJ is now being let in or they are being let in by the agreement that has been made on the supply of Mid-West on Arriva's routes. We have Little Syd, who passes to local train and here we go to Movia. Then, of course, we have the agreed and future supply of S-trains and of Øresund traffic, which will be transferred to Skånetrafikken. So we've already come a long way. The final supply of S-trains and Øresund traffic, which is to be transferred to Scania traffic, therefore represents something like barely 50 per cent. of DSB's turnover, as I recall. At least it's 68 percent. of DSB's passengers, this concerns, so I have to say that this is a tender that really wants something, if I may say so. It is an invitation to tender that will be a bit of a base for DSB, and that is why I think it is unacceptable. Then there's a lot of talk about these experiences from abroad. In fact, I do not think they are clear. They certainly are not. Some, for example, do. mentioned the supply in England, which went completely wrong. We also have the coastline inside. In England it led to chaos, and today it is said that it is now saved, in that after all it has been separated. Now the infrastructure is in the hands of the state, and the operation itself is then spread over a sea of railway companies. If you think it offers transparency, then you can think again. One should not have been in England very long and tried to book train tickets before one can see how opaque it is. And you can easily feel cheated when you buy tickets. Finding the right price, the cheapest price, is almost impossible, because you have to go through a sea of companies to get to where you want to go, i.e. when you drive on those different routes. That is also why, in England, a whole association of lawyers has been set up to deal only with matters relating to the railways, and that is cross-cutting. It is for the State against the private companies, it is between the private companies among themselves, and it is for the private companies against the state etc. etc. It's too full of curtains. Then there's the reference to Arriva's experience at home. I still want to point out that DSB made a much, much cheaper offer at the time than Arriva, but for political reasons it is my interpretation of it at least then they could not get it, and then you had to pay Arriva a nice amount of extra money, because you had just forgotten some rush hour trains, and then you forgot to train some drivers, so you had to pay extra for that. In addition, I do not believe that the operation to which it was transferred at that time can be compared with the previous operation. I can, for example. Remember that there was an IC train. God help me. There is no more, and at least that has not been done after the offer has been made. Then there is the coastline to which reference has been made, and I fully agree with that. I do not believe that due diligence was shown in investing in the Danish railway during the '00s. It is expensive to have railway operations and expensive investments. That is all the more necessary if we are to actually be on our toes. And then, as I said, you got the IC4 scandal on top of your hat. We believe that train operation and public transport are an important public task. We do not believe that the operation of trains must necessarily be a business that must make profits; it must be considered, first and foremost, an investment in mobility, in green mobility. There is nothing wrong with it making profits, but then it is, of course, in order to use the profits on one stretch to cover the deficit on another stretch. We do not believe that collective rail traffic can all be, let us just call it a good business. In our opinion, we also need to offer cheap transport to people without a car. They actually exist in our country. In fact, there are people without a car, even in the outermost regions. It can be students, young people in vocational training and in high school, etc.; it is pensioners; and then it is simply people who cannot afford a car. And then, in our opinion, as an important social task, rail must counteract the enormous congestion that we are gradually finding on the roads and that more and more cheaper cars are causing. In fact, we believe that the state rail network is the backbone of public transport and that it should be a question of this, and that is why we think that part of the discussion is perhaps how to organise it. Should you just let go and then drive with different companies on different routes, or should the state sit somewhere and check, among other things. to ensure coherence? These are some of the issues we think should be included in this debate. But thank you for the debate. I think it's been really interesting. I am accused of such an ideological proposal, but it is no more ideological than that it is typical that around the countries it is the state that is actually running rail traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516190254	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180516190308	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, May 17, 2018, p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
