ParlaMint-DK_20181011100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 72 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour Market Training, etc., the Law on Preparatory Adult Education and Distinct Education for Adults, the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Allowances and Allowances for Carriage by Participation in Adult and Continuing Vocational Training, and various other laws. In the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, the number of Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the regulation of unemployment benefit). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Question No. F 11 (Will the Minister explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what the Minister will do to municipalities that do not comply with the reform?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100042	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100118	We are opening the negotiations, and we are opening the negotiations with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, representing the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100141	Thank you, sir. President. These are two proposals that are being considered together, namely L 4 and L 5, and that is an expiry of our defence agreement. It is the case that our defence is governed by a very broad circle of parties here in the Folketing, and the other day we made a new six-year agreement. In relation to that, there are some things in the laws that need to be changed in relation to what we want to do. The first part here is about conscripts. All young men have a duty to come in and get into session. Not everyone gets caught, but they have the opportunity to serve their military service. Women can go in voluntarily. That's the way it is. That is good, but there are some who, for various reasons, are asking for postponement and exemption, and that is what the proposal here is about. When I have to say a few words about this today, I am thinking of happy Colonel Lund, whom we lost the other day, because he was actually very concerned about these questions. I remember a case where there was a young man who was to be relieved of duty. We spent a whole day together trying to make that work. Because we actually have the view in the Social Democratic Party that we should just have the right to protect, because we call a lot of people into military service, but send many homes without ever making use of the competences they have acquired while they were conscripting. So it is very much in line with the fact that this proposal means that those who have received a postponement since 1 January 2010 will be completely exempt from duty. I have to say on behalf of the Radical Left that they usually agree very much with us, perhaps not all the words, but in any case they also support this proposal from the Minister for Defence. Then there's the other part...
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100340	Wait a minute, sir. rapporteur. This is a misunderstanding. These two proposals are not discussed together. This is the promotion of the two questions on the agenda that are being discussed together. This could very easily be misunderstood, so it is perfectly forgivable that the rapporteur has misunderstood it. But just so we don't start the next proposal, I'm gonna slow it down here. Bjarne Laustsen I thank the President for being able to come on twice). That's what happens, yes. Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, and then it's Mr. Simpson. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100408	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur said, this is part of the defence settlement that the Danish People's Party is also part of, which we must now implement, and it is true that it is a group of young people who have been called in for military service before 2010, but who for various reasons have been postponed their military service on several occasions for certain people, and who will then be completely exempt from military service under this law. And let me say it as it is: it is not a seed sown in the garden of the Danish People's Party. We see military service as what it quite rightly is: a duty, and that is something that must be served if you are taken out for it. You shouldn't think that the Danish People's Party with this bill will look forwards at how to set up some kind of precedent so that you can just postpone your military service by a couple of rounds and then in the end do not have to serve your military service. We believe that it is healthy and good for a great many people • actually almost everyone who comes in to serve as a military officer • to try harder with being a soldier. At least I know from my own time as a commanding officer in the army that I have not seen any young men who have not benefited from getting in to try to learn a little about this taking into account others, learn to get some healthy values and, for some, learn which end of a diet should turn upwards and downwards. There are many things you can learn as a conscript, and I think that is kind of healthy for a lot of people, perhaps now more than ever. So this is not such an expression that the Danish People's Party is buying our positions on military service, but we are part of a settlement, and of course we stand by that, and that is why the Danish People's Party will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100612	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100625	Thank you for that, President. Now my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have given a very detailed account of the content of this proposal, so I will confine myself to saying that we in the Left are very pleased with the position and strengthening of military service in the new conciliation here. But we must also recognise that there are some who have pushed their military service ahead of them for a period which means that they are in a different place in life than they did before. It should also be the case that, as a conscript, one can be relieved of duty if it is essential for the well-being of one's own or relatives. So all in all, this is a quite sensible proposal, which we of course support in the Left, and then we welcome the fact that military service in the new conciliation has taken on a completely different and perhaps even more strengthened role. So those were supposed to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100723	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100734	Thank you. In relation to this proposal, L 4, we also support the adoption by the Enhedslisten. In fact, I think it is very sensible that people who have been subjected to military service on many occasions should now also be able to get easier simply by being exempted, so I think that is very sensible. The only objection we have is that there is one comment from Greenland's self-government in relation to the wording of this bill, and it is about how the territorial provision is referred to. I think it would be a good thing if we could see in the legislative procedure that it could be formulated more in line with what Greenlandic self-government wants here. And in order to speed up the process further, I must also say that I welcome the alternative and the SF and say that they also support L 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100830	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100839	After all, with this bill, we are effectively abolishing military service for people called into service before 2010. When we went to the negotiations in the defence settlement, it was actually on the basis of abolishing military service altogether. So in view of the fact that we were very alone with this view, we can of course rejoice that we are coming a little bit along the way. Although it only affects a minority of conscripts, we nevertheless strengthen the voluntary nature of the Danish defence a small myth, if you can put it that way and we should not mourn. We support the proposal, of course, as we are part of the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100922	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011100935	As several speakers have said, the bill here is part of the defence settlement. This is a small group of conscripts which have been prescribed for military service before 2010 and which have applied for postponement in accordance with the rules in force. With the proposed amendment, they will be exempted from military service. The duty must be maintained. It plays a central role in the defence's ability to meet the human needs of the defence. It is therefore also positive that we increase the number of conscripts with the new defence agreement. We would like to see more conscripts and the extension of military service. Almost 99%. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that the European Parliament should be consulted on this matter. This suggests that there are plenty of young people who are ready to take responsibility for the community in a very concrete sense. We owe them a great deal of respect. But when interest is so great, they should also have better and longer education. This does not mean that military service must be made voluntary. We believe that military service sends a signal that duties and rights are being followed. The defense is a unique community with members from many different social groups working together for the nation we should strengthen. Having said that, there may be serious reasons why you want to postpone your military service. That is good, because it should not be so rigid that we limit the opportunities of the individual. We Conservatives support the proposal and, as I said, it is part of the defence agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101124	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. I mean, this is going to get over the screen, so we've already gotten to the Secretary of Defense. It is a long agenda today, but the rapporteurs are very helpful, so we may be ready for normal work. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101140	I'll try to make my contribution. I would like to thank you for your contributions during this debate. To the question raised by Mrs Flyvholm, the proposal rightly proposes that it should not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but it is the idea that the law should be put into effect for the Faroe Islands and Greenland by a royal decree, and the intention is that the law should be put into force for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. After that, it will apply to the whole Kingdom community, but we can come back to that during the committee procedure. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101220	There is one question for the Minister, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101225	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that this proposal does not set a precedent in the future so that you can simply postpone your military service and, in the end, avoid serving your military service.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101238	This proposal is, as has been said, a compromise between different intentions, and it is not the intention that we should go further along this path.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101249	Then we'll thank the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101304	Now it's sir. Bjarne Laustsen, who is allowed to take up the proposal which he was approaching the last time he was on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101330	Thank you, sir. President. The Danish defence has a reputation for being very, very effective, which is why the rapporteurs should of course be. That is what we were trying to do here today, but we were blocked by the President and, of course, we are following the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. It is a bit about the same thing, because it is an end to our excellent defence reconciliation, and this is about the anti-personnel law, where a broad circle of parties has supported the changes for many years, and since there seems to be a break in the Folketing today, I believe that all parties support the changes in this proposal. A great many people are concerned that the veterans we have sent out have good relations and together we have constantly improved conditions, and we in the Social Democratic Party would like to contribute to this. There has been such a dividing line, which was on 14 August 1996, and after that everyone could get some pension-like benefits and compensation for pain and pain, but there we have found together that it would be very good to do the backwards too, so that it is also possible to obtain allowances and benefits from before that date. It is because we sent out to Cyprus much earlier, and in the early 1990s we also sent out to the wars in the Balkans. So it would be perfectly reasonable for us to create equality in this area. Then it is the case that we do not know exactly how many people can be talked about here, but we have agreed that the costs to which this would amount will be borne within the defence's own budgetary framework. So, with these comments, I can give it the full support, and that also applies to the Radical Left. I say this in order to preserve the effectiveness of Parliament's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101521	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Then it's mr. Jep Jakobs from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101527	Thank you. Where the previous draft law amending the military service law was not a seed sown in the garden of the Danish People's Party, it can be said that this, in turn, is very much a seed sown in the garden of the Danish People's Party. The case here starts in 1996 where there is an inequality among the veterans who come home from the Balkans: the veterans who were civil servants had one kind of condition in the event that they were injured during their deployment, whereas the soldiers who were not civil servants had other and worse conditions in connection with a possible injury during the deployment. This was corrected so that everyone was subject to the same conditions, and that was very good. Unfortunately, however, the soldiers who had already been injured during a broadcast before August 1996 were forgotten. So that's what we're cleaning up now. Now all veterans get the same economic conditions if they are injured, no matter when they have been sent out, and we are obviously very happy about this in the Danish People's Party, as the veteran case is very close to us. At the same time, a great deal of praise must be paid to the defence of having acted proactively in this case and ensuring that the veterans who already have occupational injuries cases and who could be covered by those rules have already been informed of this and that they themselves do not have to raise their cases again, but that they do so automatically. Great praise for that. It is not a group of people who necessarily have very much surplus in their everyday lives to have to start another cause of occupational injury. So it is really positive that it happens automatically. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is happy to support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101726	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101739	Thank you for that, President. The aim of the bill here is to achieve equality in the future in relation to the financial compensation of the personnel seconded. It has been the case that there was a cut-off date per year. 14 August 1996. Now we are changing it so that we ignore this date forward. So for the Left, it's a real party day, and I'm only happy to tell you from up here about all the parties that have helped take this responsibility. Because it has really been a challenge for some of our soldiers deployed. So it is basically a mere party day, and we can celebrate that we are future-lookingly equalising the personnel sent out who have helped to serve Denmark outside the country's borders. So it's a party day from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101834	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011101847	From the side of the Enhedslisten, we can also support this proposal. In fact, I think it is incredibly important that the people who have been posted as employees from the state and who have suffered occupational injuries and who are going to experience being ill as a result of the deployment as soldiers receive proper treatment and that they are given the opportunity to receive compensation and compensation and help. For the Balkan veterans in particular, it has been far too poor, as the situation has now been, and we have already put forward a proposal on the part of the Enhedslisten, which was fortunately adopted, that Balkan veterans with ptsd should be given the opportunity to obtain work compensation for it. But there has been a backlog for a lot of years, in fact for 22 years, in relation to these people's cause. So I think it is high time to say that something is happening now. So that is very positive, and I would very much like to support that. But I still think we just have to remember that in this context, the Central Association for Stam personnel, that is, the organisation of the soldiers, is now also raising the criticism that this is not actually quite good enough. Because one still puts away on 1 January now here as the deadline for dealing with the cases, and they say that, in fact, there is still no question of real equality when it cannot work properly with retroactive effect. So I hope that we can have a debate on this in future legislative work, so if we cannot get this up completely, so that the associations too can be satisfied with it and say that it is good enough and so that there is no doubt for those people that they can get the fair compensation that they should have been able to have for the last 22 years. I should also like to welcome the SF and the Alternative here and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102045	There's one question. It's from sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102050	Thank you. I cannot help noticing that it is the second proposal in a row that is part of the new defence settlement that Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative support. I would like to express my greatest appreciation of this. Do we see a more mature and more adult Enhedslisten at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102112	So, frankly, I would like to say to the questioner that I actually think that we on the Enhedslisten have been extremely mature and adults in taking responsibility for those people who have suffered damage at war, especially on this issue of veterans' conditions. It was we who put forward the proposal that provided this compensation for the Balkan veterans and we have been very careful to go into that work all the way. Because I think people should have proper treatment when they come home from war with damage. So there's nothing new about that. However, if the questioner asks whether the Enhedslisten would like to be involved in future, for example. to spend 66 billion. kr. on new fighters, sending out a brigade near the Russian border, etc., I must say no. That is probably not where we in the Enhedslist have come to, that is, that we can be part of the other things in the defence settlement. I'll tell you what. But, of course, we support these things that are sensible. So I'd like to sign for the rose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102210	I believe that those with whom we work together on security and foreign policy in the Baltic countries appreciate the fact that Denmark also shows the flag there and that we stand together and celebrate the community. So the people we sent to the Baltics are very useful. I was just trying to praise Enhedslisten, and Enhedslisten can take that down the way they want. In fact, I think it is worthy of recognition today precisely to congratulate the Enhedslisten for helping to take responsibility. But I understand that Enhedslisten has still not put the sword into the vagina, but still beats with it to the right and to the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102246	This is one of Enhedslisten's most important tasks. But I would also like to acknowledge the praise and say that I think it is very important that this proposal should be adopted in the Folketing now. And I hope that, in future legislative work, we can all, in fact, all help to see if we cannot do it even better, so that the Central Association can also be satisfied with the way in which the law is drafted and people can be compensated for the progress all the way back. I think we should talk about this in future legislative work, and I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102317	It was a mutual receipt, so let's just leave it there, quite calmly. And then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102329	I would just like to say that I think it is mature and adult to ensure equality in defence. That is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102339	It was short and precise. And I don't know if it was going too fast for Mr. Knox. Nas Khader, it's kind of his turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102356	Then I would like to elaborate on what the others have said. Denmark's sendees deserve our utmost respect. This year it is the 70th anniversary of the first Danish contribution to international missions. For 70 years, Denmark has been helping to create security and stability throughout the world. It makes me and us Conservatives proud that we have a top professional defense. There are also more of us who have visited our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, and they go to the task with their heads cold and their hearts warm. It's men and women who are passionate about making a difference. We must recognise that. It also means that we must back up our senders. Not only during a mission from start to finish, but also when they get home. The position of the Conservative People's Party is absolutely firm: our soldiers deserve all the support we can give. That is why I am pleased that the government, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, has agreed on a boost to defence and also a boost to support veterans. Care and support are the least we owe to the people who have been sent out for Denmark. We should all be able to agree on that. At present we have a system that means that returned soldiers with scars on their body and souls can be paid a benefit. However, this applies only to personnel who have been deployed since 1996. As I said, we have been on international missions for many years. That is why, of course, there are soldiers who have been sent out before 1996 on an equal footing with others and who may have an equal need for support. That is why this proposal, which we are now considering, which ensures that all soldiers, regardless of the time they have been deployed, receive a benefit if their situation so permits. It should not therefore depend on whether it has been issued before or after 1996. And, of course, there are no grounds for discrimination against veterans depending on the time of the broadcast. At any rate, we Conservatives are very pleased that this change became part of the defence settlement so that our veterans, and also their relatives, can be sure that the veterans get the support they deserve. We owe them our gratitude. Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102623	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. It's the Secretary of Defense again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102634	I would like to thank you for your contributions during this debate. The rapporteurs have, of course, explained the background to this draft law, and I would just like to say that the issues raised in the committee's proceedings must of course be discussed. So we can get back to that. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102657	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102712	The debate is open, and we start with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011102740	Thank you very much, President. In the long reading of what the bill is called, the President almost gave a statement on the whole content of this bill. It is in many ways a good and constructive proposal, which follows on from the fact that an agreement has been made that there must be clear rules on how long you can park in these rest areas. For several years we have experienced a situation where camping has been almost in these rest areas. And we have seen that Eastern European lorry drivers in particular have used it to spend 24 hours after 24 hours in these resting places to fish illegal cabotage trips. And there has been due care that the government has put in place a limit on how long you have to park in the rest areas. It has then had the side effect that these truck drivers have started to park some other places, for example. on highway ramps, in discounts and other things, and that's no good either. So it is a natural consequence of this that a piece of legislation is put in place which says that the rules that apply at rest places, for how long one must last, must of course also apply elsewhere. And we're gonna raise the fine for how much it costs to park illegally, even outside the rest areas, so there's gonna be stringency and a thread compared to this. And we Social Democrats think that is right, very positive, and we would like to commend the government for taking this issue so seriously. There is no doubt that all the places where we can combat illegal cabotage must, of course, do so. This is one of the tools. We would like to ask the Minister whether he is going to have to check a lot anyway in relation to the length of time that must be parked so that he may also be able to strengthen the effort to check whether there is illegal cabotage. This is an opportunity that we would like to see examined. Then it is a well-known fact that the whole reason why we are standing here with these rules for rest places is that it is something that has aroused a lot of debate within the European Union, and it has been a letter of formal notice and other things. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that Denmark has the opportunity to do this. We believe that this is a good idea, and we support the government. Of course, you can always discuss how many hours there should be. However, we would like the Minister to perhaps consider how to deal with the EU issue. Does this mean that we are now implementing something that we are going to change again if the European Union is right? It's very nice to just know and have in mind what we are facing. But basically, there are good tactics in this proposal. It's good to have a framework in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103043	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103057	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good proposal. We have had this on our wish list for the past 3-4 years in the fight against social dumping. It is certainly one of the tools we can use so that the Danish state-funded rest sites are not used as clean campsites for, yes, factually Eastern European drivers, but of course that applies to all others. That is what is written in the letter of formal notice that we must not discriminate. Neither do we, because this 25-hour parking goes for all trucks, of course. And, of course, the European Union must, in good Danish, stick its pipe in. They have no hand- and neck over Danish rest places funded by the Danish taxpayers. We will decide for ourselves in Denmark how and how. I hope that even all the EU-friendly parties agree with me that we can do this nationally. All in all, however, it is a good proposal with this 25-hour parking and also the fact that we are raising the fines so that the lorries do not just use motorway ramps and are thus a nuisance to traffic and also to road safety. Then we may have to have a look at the place and that is something we have started so small to discuss if we can create a little more space; whether we can find a little white paint and paint a little more booths in the existing rest areas so that there will be more space. But now we see that it has created space. So the drivers and trucks who have to keep their statutory driving-rest-time rest, there will therefore be room for when we remove all the campers. Having said that, this has not been done in an evil way towards the poor people who are being exploited by various transport companies and freight forwarding companies. It is in fact to give them a helping hand, so that somehow we force those who hire them to drive around with their goods to create some orderly conditions for their drivers who need a longer rest, a bath or a meal. It should not be done with a primus apparatus out in a Danish rest stop. It must be done under orderly conditions. So we hope that this proposal will help to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103334	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103343	Thank you, sir. President. The agreement on the fixed-term parking in the country's state resting places was concluded between the government and Dansk Folkeparti in connection with the Finance Act for 2018. The intention is, of course, as Mr. Kim Christiansen pointed out that we will put an end to the long-term parking that has taken place so far. Our parking spaces are not meant to be used for long-term parking. The idea is that people should be able to rest and, among other things, rest. be able to comply with the driving-rest-time rules applicable to the carriage. Then we agree that we must of course also have this law enforced. First of all, there must be effective control of these rules. For making rules without control is almost worse than not making any rules. That's why we're gonna propose with this bill that the Department of Commerce will be responsible for ensuring that there's effective control of this, so that the rules are respected. Secondly, we also agree to raise the fine level by actually quadrupling from DKK 510. DKK 2,040. for illegal parking. Also on the access and exit ramps, where so far it has been parked diligently, it is to the detriment of road safety and reprehensible to park there we raise the fines from 1.000 to 3.000 DKK. It is no secret that we had to go through a lot of political discussions before we came to the agreement on this parking time limitation. There were various proposals on the table. Among other things: for a long time, there was an 11-hour limitation. We on the Left thought that was going too far. It must be the case that the transport industry and drivers have the opportunity to comply with the driving-rest-time rules. We thought that was very difficult if we had landed in 11 hours. So this 25-hour deal was a sensible compromise that we can all be happy with. I am also aware that the European Union has lifted its eyebrows over it, and the Minister is dealing with this. But I am convinced that the European Union will, of course, respect this rule, because it is still possible to keep the statutory rest there. In addition, we also foresee the emergence of a whole new business area, because there will be a need for those who need to park for a long time, and there we predict that some private parking spaces will be created around, where you can buy in as a wagonman as part of the planning of the transport, so that the driver can rest and have a meal, a bath and whatever else you need. But, as I said, we believe that this has had a sensible landing. Now we are also ensuring that there will be a sanction that is appropriate and that there will be effective control of these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103625	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103638	Enhedslisten can support this bill. In fact, we think that this is a very good proposal because it helps to limit social dumping on the roads. So there's a lot of good stuff in it. This follows, it might be said, from the whole ban on the parking of trucks at state rest sites for more than 25 hours, and that time limit has been introduced to put an end to this long-term parking practiced by many drivers, especially from Eastern European countries. There are many cases of regular camping while waiting for new orders. Or it is a matter of people using the resting places to take this 45-hour rest, which you are not allowed to take in your truck. Therefore, one might say, they should have no reason to be in the rest places. It's not a proper relationship that people live in that way either. So it's really social dumping of the worst drawer. We in the Group of the European People's Party wanted the police to exercise more control over the latter, especially if people are taking the weekly rest in the rest places, and we would like to see control increased. We have also asked the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights why little more has been done in this area. It would be nice if the Minister of Transport would help to push a little so that there are some answers there and we will have to deal with it. But of course this 25-hour time limit must also be followed by increased parking charges if it is to have the desired effect. And there we can discuss whether what is planned for now is quite enough. But I think it makes sense at least to try, and it is therefore very important now to prevent the time limit here and the increased charges not only from moving the problems to other parts of the road network • that we also get the fines lifted. We must increase control and extend the ban to cover the rest of the road network, including the municipal road network. So what is in the proposal here is Enhedslisten completely on board. And the increase in the fine for parking on the motorway network from 1,000 to 3,000 DKK. We're really happy about that, too. So all in all, this is a really good proposal, a good contribution to the fight against social dumping on the roads. At the same time, it is also proposed that the Danish works council should take control of parking on the state road network, also at rest places for the Road Directorate. And there we also think that it is assumed that the funds will follow fully from the Road Directorate. I hope then that the Minister can confirm in a moment that they will do so, because it is of course important that we can fully fund this work so that it will work very well and as intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011103957	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104004	Thank you. With the bill we are discussing here, we quadruple the parking charge for vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tonnes, from 510 to 2,040 DKK. That has already been mentioned. The parking charge will apply to the entire Danish road network, but has as its main objective to ensure that trucks do not keep parked in state rest areas for more than 25 hours. It is a time limit that was introduced on 1 July of this year, and I do not think I exaggerate if I say that it happened after even very long negotiations. So the 25-hour thing is a classic compromise. In other words, the draft law must help to prevent trucks from being parked long-term in the state rest areas which have been experienced in the past as a very major problem. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it makes sense that the resting places are used for rest and for shorter stays of up to these 25 hours, and certainly not for longer stays, which may resemble camping conditions. I think many people will be happy that we could reach each other after these long discussions, so I am actually delighted that a lot of people are backing up. It wouldn't have been fun to have a war on these hour relationships where there are a lot of interests in the various organizations. As you know, the Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104151	Thank you. Then it's the alternative, and that's Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104158	Thank you. L 40 has, of course, been well examined by the other rapporteurs. This is the first time I've been standing here in the new collection. We just started up here, and I see that the new remodel has been completed. To those who do not know, I can say that we have made changes so that people with reduced mobility or other disabilities can be allowed to speak on equal terms with the rest of us. So it's really nice. And that brings me to the speaking chair here, which was built all the way back in the last century... in 1915 by a woman carpenter... in fact out of a big bitch from Møn. Then you know. I can say very briefly that we support the proposal. There are, of course, some challenges that we have talked about in the Alternative. It is, among other things, that it may be against EU law, may be against the internal market, and that is, of course, what our Minister for Transport is dealing with. And we hope it will land in a very good place, because sometimes it is necessary to push the European Union into more progressive legislation when it comes to problems such as this. social dumping which is under way and which we are experiencing here in our places of rest. And that is why we can support the fact that we are actually going against some EU legislation, and thus perhaps helping to push forward some progressiveness in the European Union too. But we wait and see what happens, but as a starting point we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104330	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. There could be many other exciting things to say about the Chamber here, but now it is actually a traffic proposal that we are in the process of doing. And I give the floor to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104342	In the Radical Left, we understand the draft law as meaning that this draft law does not deal with what many rapporteurs have been talking about, namely that a truck can only last 25 hours in the rest place. It has been decided by an announcement and is not part of the bill here. We can support the bill because we can support the three parts of it. We're very sceptical about this, about the fact that you can only hold 25 hours in a rest stop. We are because the legislation says that a lorry driver must have a 48-hour rest sometimes. Now it can't happen in a rest stop, but they'll probably rest anyway. And where do they do that? Nobody knows that. But it can be on villa roads, in industrial districts and anywhere else. Then it could be that it was actually better for them to keep in a rest stop than for them to keep in all kinds of other places. But the bill says it's the Department of Commerce that's supposed to control it instead of the police. We think that is very sensible. The police have a lot to do. There is a waiting time to solve cases and catch criminals, so it is reasonable that they should not go out and check trucks at rest places, but that the works council does. It is also sensible to pay a little more than DKr 2 000. instead of 500 kroner. in order not to comply with the rules that now exist. We also think it is very sensible that we should no longer park on the ramps. It really surprises me that it was not already illegal, but I think that makes very good sense. That is why we can support the Radical Left bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104530	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. And we have actually reached the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011104539	Thank you. Before I begin my actual speech here, I should like to reply to Mr. Andreas Steenberg on the objection that the legislation says that drivers should be able to take a 45-hour regular rest, and where should they keep it if they are not to keep it in rest places? I have to do sir. Andreas Steenberg is aware that the same legislation says that it is illegal to keep it 45-hour rest in rest places, and that it is therefore a quite unspeakable objection that they should not do so when we introduce the parking restriction. They are not allowed to do so in advance under the legislation which Mr. Andreas Steenberg is referring to. In connection with the negotiations on the Finance Act 2018 it was agreed between the government and the Danish People's Party that temporary parking should be introduced at the state resting places for trucks. As a follow-up to the Finance Act, the government and the Danish People's Party decided in February this year that trucks may park 25 hours maximum in state rest areas. At the same time, it was decided that sanctions should be lifted in order to ensure that the time limit decided is respected. With the decision to introduce the time limit, there is a dispute that the state resting areas are used by truck drivers to stay longer and thus may become a sort of campsite. The 25-hour time limit itself was effective on 1 July 2018. The time limit has therefore already been introduced. Now, with this bill, the government wants to make sure that it is also respected. With the bill, the government wants to raise the general parking charge for vehicles whose permissible maximum weight exceeds 3,500 kg. Today, regardless of the size of the vehicle, the parking charge is DKK 510. This is not the case, however, if you park outside the entrance and exit to and from buildings or are improperly parked in places reserved for disabled people. Here is the penalty DKK 1,020. Now we propose that the general tax be increased from the current DKK 510. DKK 2,040. for vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of more than 3,500 kg, i.e. a quadruple of the tax. The quadruple must reflect that it is the government's assessment that the current level of DKK 510. is too low, as an infringement is, as a general rule, committed by business actors. In other words, the tax increase must be so high that it is taken seriously and has the necessary preventive effect. In addition, we propose that the increase should apply to the entire road network and not only in order to keep parked for longer than 25 hours in the rest areas of the state. This is because we should like to avoid a situation in which lorries are seeking to park on the rest of the road network in order to avoid the higher parking charge in the rest areas. With the proposal, we ensure that it will not be better economically to keep in conflict with the rules on municipal roads. At the same time as the general increase in the parking charge for vehicles with a maximum authorised weight of more than 3,500 kg, it is also proposed that the fine for the same vehicles should generally be increased from DKK 1,000. for 3,000 kroner. In the event of illegal parking on access ramps and exit ramps on the motorway network, an increase will also apply to access ramps and exit ramps on motorway routes. Parking on access ramps and exit ramps may constitute a traffic-dangerous situation, which should also be reflected in the size of the penalty in relation to a parking charge by, for example, keeping too long parked in rest areas. That is why the fine is set at DKK 3 000, so it is higher than in the event of an infringement of a stop or parking ban, where the fine is DKK 1,000. In the context of the 2018 Finance Act, money has been allocated up to 2021 for the administration and control of compliance, including the new 25-hour limitation. The task of monitoring is currently carried out by the Road Directorate. However, it is assessed that the task is best carried out in the long term by the Danish Transport Authority, as the Authority already administers rules in the heavy goods vehicle sector, including the Authority also carries out certain control tasks in relation to the truck industry. That is why we are also proposing that the parking check be taken over in whole or in part by the Danish Transport Authority as far as the roads are concerned. It is the intention, provided that the proposal is adopted by the Danish Parliament, that from 1 January 2019 Færdselsstyrelsen will take over the control task from the Vejdirektoratet. In conclusion, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions that the members of the committee might have on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105033	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105049	The debate is open. We'll start again with mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105112	Thank you very much, President. Once again, this is a very good and positive proposal, which comes because it is actually a huge success with our cruise tourism. It is the case that it really grows violently in Copenhagen. It is a huge success, and in many ways it is an economic engine. And since it is the case that the port areas of Copenhagen are subject to legislation, we need to change the legislation a little in order to allow for the extension of the area for cruise tourism. That is fundamentally positive. This is something that we Social Democrats can support. Should anyone be present now we have Business Norddanmark in the gallery who is wondering whether it is now something that the Copenhageners get that they are not given the opportunity to get in Aalborg, which also has cruise tourism, they must be aware that it is not the case that we open the state's purse and spend money on something, but we are changing legislation to improve precisely the possibilities for cruise tourism. That's a good thing. Having said that, it may well be that when we once hopefully very soon have a master plan for infrastructure, there must be a pool of money for port infrastructure for some of the things that ports need also in relation to cruise tourism, and that is one of the things that can be supported and strengthened. At least we in the Social Democratic Party will be positive about this. One of the things I've come across in dealing with this bill is the question of how to supply these cruise ships with power while they're at berth. And one of the things that has been going on in the media is that not all of them are connected to a land installation so that they can get green power on board the ships and pollute something less. In some cases it is simply a question of diesel-soaking ships polluting, emitting particles and other things. There we would like to see the Minister elaborate on what it really looks like on the part of the Social Democratic Party. We are all in favour of the success of cruise tourism, and we would like to see more of it. It's good for our economy. It's nice when somebody wants to visit us. But if it has the side effect of polluting, can we do something constructive to make it better? Can you, for example, do it? require that it be ground-based power plants that provide green power that is connected to, etc.? We would like to ask actively about this. But from the outset, we are very, very positive about this success and that we are changing the law so that there is room for something more. We would like more cities to benefit from some of this and a pool to strengthen this positive development. However, we would very much like to take a constructive look at this specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105403	Thank you. That was a concrete reassurance to Mr. Rasmus Prehn's homeland, I could understand, and that's very nice. Then we move on to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105419	Well, of course we are positive about the proposal. In general, we are a little sceptical in situations where the possibility of industrial and commercial harbours in favour of housing is closed. We have seen some glaring examples of this, and we can get the result from it that you feel bothered by the port environment and so on. In this case, it is a question of moving a business port a little and giving more space to cruise ships, so it is not immediately housing that is being given way. So in this case, it seems quite reasonable, also because it is probably one of the biggest tourism initiatives in Copenhagen with these cruise ships, so it makes sense. I thought that was a fine point, sir. Rasmus Prehn had compared to green power. I look forward to hearing an answer to that and also an answer to waste management and how to do it when these big ships come in. So I think it would be good to get it out. Otherwise, however, we are very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105533	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105546	Thank you. The Left is also excited about this bill, which among other things. was born of the success of the cruise ships. After all, Denmark has succeeded in being the point of entry for the large cruise ships, from Skagen and Aalborg in the north to a number of other cities, including Copenhagen. Now there has been a need to change the design of the business port so that we can have a more flexible and better use of the quay section in External North Harbour. Today the area Outer Nordhavn is unbuilt and under filling, and the filling is expected to be ready by 2020. Today it is the case that Outer North Harbour is divided into four areas, one of which is the territorial sea today. This territorial sea must maintain its shape and must therefore not be used to fill and contain the area, but in the remaining areas of the port it can be arranged differently so that we can ensure better conditions for the development we would like to see in the area. Cruise traffic has grown a lot and we predict that it will grow even more. And I agree with the two previous speakers that we must, of course, also be aware that these cruise ships emit quite a lot of particles when they are lying there chopping with their power generators, because a great deal of power needs to be spent on such a cruise ship. There we can look at our good friends in Skåne, where Ystad Harbour has long ago solved the problem of ships that are docking and has made landflows that they can connect when they dock. So there we can be inspired by our Swedish friends. So today only 1,100 metres of quay length are being used for cruise traffic and there are actually 1,800 metres available, but now with this bill we have the opportunity to establish a fourth cruise terminal out there, north of the three already existing, and thus the opportunity to increase this activity, which means a great deal to the metropolitan area and our turnover here. It will also be possible to make better use of the recreational area in the port area. So all in all, this is a very good proposal, which helps to strengthen the capital and locomotive of all of us, Copenhagen, even more. Then I should also welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105820	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011105825	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to provide greater flexibility in the development of the outer part of Nordhavn, so that the greater need for berths for cruise ships is met by extending the berth, while reducing the areas to the commercial port and extending the areas to recreational activities. In the view of Enhedslisten, it is quite positive that you look at how you can create a slightly more flexible way of using the port, and it is also very, very good that there are some recreational areas. Because I think it is very important that we have more free areas in our city that people can use. Nevertheless, the Enhedslisten has some reservations about the bill. The first and probably most important thing, it can be said, is that, as it is right now, these cruise ships really do have an enormous environmental impact on air pollution in the areas. The Ecological Council has pointed out as recently as this summer that it is really bad for air quality that cruise ships are standing there driving. So we do not think we can help to say that there must be more cruise ships in there as long as this problem of pollution has not been resolved. It might be quite obvious that, in connection with this bill, we said that there should be such a land power plant as the cruise ships could use instead of burning fuel. At the same time, when you look at how it is part of the government's new climate plan that cruise tourism in the Baltic Sea should be more environmentally friendly, I also think that there is indeed a very good opportunity now for us to have action behind words and to have an initiative taken quickly here. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we will in any case be tabling an amendment to this bill for these land power plants to be set up and for it to be a requirement that they be used so that we can reduce air pollution. But I look forward to it being discussed in the future work. We also have a concern about the fact that when you change this land use from container port to commercial port, at the same time you reduce business area. We can be a little sceptical about this, given what it will mean for the people working in the port, whether there will be fewer tasks. Should there be fewer containers being dropped off and on? What's going to happen? In any case, we see it as a problem if more and more jobs, including that, are being squeezed out of Copenhagen, what is to say, more physical jobs. Because it's actually really good to have the mix of different professions here. So there I hope that the Minister can also elaborate a little on what this is really going to mean for the activity and the employees in the port. Finally, we have a concern about the fact that in the existing law right now there is a provision about how high these buildings in the container port or what is the proposal's business port must be and it sets a maximum height of 25 m for buildings. At the moment, that limit has changed, and it may be that there may be some correlation between the change in the limit and that there has also been a desire to place a high-rise of 280 m right near where that limit is being changed. I would like to say that we in the Enhedslisten are very sceptical that we are allowed to go in and build so high. So we would like to know what it means to remove this height limit and be sure that it will still be respected in the legislative proposal, and that is why we are also tabling an amendment on it. But as a starting point, we think there are some good tactics in the bill. However, we need to clarify this by getting the green sustainable power for the cruise ships, that there should be no deterioration in the conditions of the employees in the port, and that this will not just be a way to be able to patch up some very, very high high-rises in the area. If we can achieve that and agree on that, then we will be very positive about it. So I look forward to the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110322	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110333	Thank you. It's just before, it's like what you hear in a town council hall when we're talking about heights of houses, etc. But leave it alone. In the Liberal Alliance, too, we are pleased that with this bill we can help meet the high demand from the market for cruise ships. Anyone can see that. In addition, it will also be possible to establish a fourth cruise terminal north of the existing terminals on Oceankaj, as it is called. This means that the entire quay section of Oceankaj can now be used for cruise traffic. It is, of course, positive that we have the opportunity to allow more cruise ships to dock in the North Harbour. The upcoming Nordhavnstunnel and the metro stations in the North Harbour will quickly lead the cruise guests to the centre for the joy and benefit of the Danish business community. Of course, from a political point of view, we should do what we can to create a better framework for the Danish tourism industry, which creates both growth and jobs. The bill here does, and that is why we support it. Furthermore, I am a little surprised that we in the Danish Parliament are going to have to plan detailed plans so narrowly that we need to change legislation when new ships are going to call in new berths. Let it be a sequel to my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110510	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Well, then we've got Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthiesen out here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110536	Thank you. Sorry I'm late. The proposal is already very well sketched out by the previous rapporteurs, so let me just come straight to the points of the alternative. It is a plus that we are expanding in relation to tourism. It's really nice that Denmark gets even more on the map, minus land power plants. The reason I was a little late was because I was sitting a little bit digging into the fact that in Copenhagen we were actually offered to set up these land power plants back in 2016, when they were turned down. There is little uncertainty as to why a relatively cheap investment was rejected. So we are in a situation where we could actually have prepared ourselves for this situation where we want to expand capacity in relation to cruise ships and tourists. That's really, really too bad. In the alternative, we have had the dialogue and the conversation. Does this mean that the state must then go in and carry out the task to which the municipality has said no, because the state is now going in and saying that we must expand capacity? Or should the municipality go out and find the funding itself, and how does it do so? These are in fact many of the questions that have also been asked by the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is important, I think, to get to grips with before the alternative can fully endorse the draft law. Otherwise, there is a great risk that we will be sending the green bottom line wrong, that is to say that both health and the environment will suffer not only for the Copenhageners but also for the Zealanders. With those words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110715	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the radical rapporteur, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110724	In the Radical Left, we can support this bill. We think it is good to give City & Harbour and the City of Copenhagen some more opportunities to develop the port for cruise ships. There is one, we think, very interesting consultation answer from what, as far as I remember, is called the Østerbro Port Committee, which addresses some of the environmental and climate challenges that the Alternative and Enhedslist also touched upon in their speeches. That is where they want, among other things, to demand by law that these ships be brought to power in order to avoid particulate emissions and also CO2 The proposals we think are excellent and at least the intention is the right one. We would like to encourage the government to take a look at this. It is probably not the Ministry of Transport that has to do this, but perhaps the Ministry of the Environment. As we understand the bill, one does not rule out the other. We think it is a good idea to develop the port, so we can therefore vote in favour of the bill. However, we would like to take part in a work to do some of the other actions alongside in another agreement or in another ministry. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110849	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011110901	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim of the bill is to ensure a more flexible use of the business port and quay sections in Copenhagen's External North Harbour. Since the law in force lays down very detailed rules for the use of land, it can therefore be amended only with the consent of the Danish Parliament. In order to meet the high demand on the market for cruise ships, the bill must include: provide the possibility that the full quay section of Oceankaj of a total of 1,800 m can be used for cruise traffic, etc. Today it is only possible to use 1,100 m for cruise activities out of the total quay section. In addition, the draft law should allow a fourth cruise terminal to be established north of the three existing terminals at Oceankaj. In addition, in order to allow more flexible use of the land for filling up in the Outer North Harbour, the draft law should make it possible for the filling up to be made up of two areas in the future, against today's three areas: an area for business port and an area for maritime and recreational facilities. At the same time, this means a slight change in the division, so that the total area is allocated to the industrial port etc. the area for maritime and recreational facilities is increased, and the use of this area is extended for the benefit of the city's citizens. The change in the division makes it possible to use the land released • approx. 71⁄2 ha towards the existing cruise terminals for urban development etc. This urban development will, of course, take place according to the usual planning processes in the City of Copenhagen with consultations etc. Before I finish, I have to answer questions from the many rapporteurs who spoke about the importance of getting land flow to the cruise ships. I fully agree that this is an important problem to resolve. When they produce power out there with their engines, their diesel engines, they send particles beyond the population of Copenhagen, and therefore it would be better if they got power from land so that they could avoid sending out those particles. The problem here is not that there are too few land power plants. At least it would not solve the problem that we set up a lot of land power plants. The problem is that the ships are not equipped to receive power from land. Nine out of ten ships cannot receive landflows, which means that if we made the requirement that they should be able to receive landflows, nine out of ten ships would not go to Copenhagen, but for example. instead at Malmø. And we don't get fewer particles out of that; we just get the particles discharged into Malmø, and then they fly with the wind to Copenhagen and do the same damage. But we are getting less tourism and less revenue from cruise tourism in Copenhagen. That is why the solution is, after all, the one that the government has put forward in its climate initiative, and in which everyone interested in the proposal could have been aware of, namely that we are starting work on the other countries and cities of the Baltic Sea region, where we will jointly demand that cruise ships calling at our cities should be able to receive land flow. If we do so in this way and get such an agreement, it will have an effect, whereas the second thing that we in Copenhagen alone have to demand landflows is a symbolic effect, namely that the ships will then instead dock in other ports in the Baltic Sea and that we will still have the particles in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111303	Wait a minute, Minister. There is one comment: Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111308	Thank you for your comment. I think it is very sensible to enter into cooperation with Sweden and the other countries, too, that we are jointly putting pressure on these ships to have this land power plant, but at the same time I think it is also necessary to say that it seems strange to adopt legislation now that we are expanding our port area and, at the same time, we are not making these stricter requirements when we know that it is causing air pollution problems in the areas. Isn't it obvious that Denmark actually has the courage to take the lead in this area as well? Then we just have to speed up the process of getting the Swedes in Malmø and say: let us stand firm together that we are green towns, and we want to strengthen this agenda. I would like to see a little more of a response from the Minister on how we can make this happen as soon as possible. Nor do I think it can be fair to the people who live in the area to simply live with the increased air pollution that comes from it, and it is my impression that the Swedes would like to be involved in doing something too, and then it is wise to do something together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111415	Then it is so good that if the Swedes are in on it and other countries are also in on it, we can make that agreement, and then we can achieve the result that we want to achieve, namely to reduce particulate pollution in Copenhagen. For the reality is that if we simply prohibit those ships from entering Copenhagen, so that they add to Malmø or other cities in the Baltic region, we will still have the particles. So you have to be a party of Enhedslisten's type in order to think that hitting the table hard and appearing with a halo on is more important than solving the problem that you are talking about. But we know it from Enhedslisten in other cases; you don't really care about the effect, as long as you can look like you're a really good person.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111458	Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111501	This isn't about looking like anything. This is about the bill here expanding the number of cruise ships docking in the harbour of Copenhagen. It will increase the amount of air pollution enormously for the citizens living in the area, and the Minister and everyone else in this room who is voting for it has a responsibility to ensure that they do not happen. For it is deadly unhealthy and harmful for people to live in it us. That is why I think we have a responsibility. Something can be done, and I think it would be very nice if the government took on the responsibility of being willing to follow up on the green intentions of concrete legislation and action, in order to show the way to take the lead. We can have that discussion when we table the amendment. But I actually think it is very important that Denmark takes the lead here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111551	I do not believe for a moment that the fact that we are giving the opportunity to use some 100 metres more quay for cruise tourism in Copenhagen will lead to more people in the world making cruises in the Baltic region. I don't believe that at all. I believe that this means that Copenhagen can receive more cruise ships sailing in the Baltic Sea area and then dock in Copenhagen instead of landing in other cities in the Baltic Sea area. And that is why we must make the agreement that we, in common in the Baltic region, reduce particulate emissions from ships by offering land flow and by requiring them to be able to receive land flow. We should not just stand in a pillow because we want to appear as if we are wearing a halo, and then we hunt cruise ships to dock in Malmø or elsewhere, instead of them docking in Copenhagen, and at the same time get exactly the same number of particles as we do today, where they dock in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111640	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111718	We are opening the debate with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011111734	Thank you for that, President. Socialist housing policy is basically based on two objectives. Firstly, we must ensure that as many people as possible have up-to-date and affordable accommodation available, and secondly, we must ensure that we have some residential neighbourhoods that are mixed across social groups and across housing forms. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that a strong welfare society can only be maintained if children from the working class and middle class are classed with children from resourceless families. The effect of having classmates from well-functioning families is crucial for the children who have the lowest starting point. The welfare in our optics can not only be the help you get at the municipality. It is first and foremost the community that is between people in everyday life. That is why social democracy is also included in the agreement that lies behind the legislative proposal we are debating today. It will provide more condominiums in Tingbjerg, it will provide more general housing on Strandvejen. It is a step towards more mixed neighbourhoods in our cities. The agreement is an extension of a long social democratic planning tradition, which extends back to Stauning's law on reorganisation in 1939. It was used at the time for example. to clear Borgergade and Adelgade in central Copenhagen. The agreement is also an extension of what was called the world's best restoration law from 1959, which was used to sank the black square on Nørrebro. It was 15 minutes that got that name because in the office of the social services, a black pin was placed for every child case that was in the area. And that area was totally black. The agreement is also an extension of the urban renewal initiated by the Social Democratic Party in the 80s and 90s, which changed Vesterbro in Copenhagen and changed many other neighbourhoods around the country. Out with the old stove and the damp chambers, came central heating and modern insulation. It has been social democratic policy for most of a century that it is not acceptable for us to place them in our most difficult society in the same areas. In all cases it has been the case that the bourgeois people have thought it was too expensive and that the extreme left has been against it. But neither the bourgeois nor the extreme left will today claim that we should have left it alone. Most people can see what is reasonable in the changes, most people do not want to return to the time before the urban renewal, i.e. before the changes at Nørrebro and in the inner city of Copenhagen. The law we are discussing today is therefore also based on the plan for the Gellerup Park, which the social democratic city government led in Aarhus. It was about building new owners' homes in the area, moving municipal jobs there, setting up a local police station and getting private investors into the area. But it was also about making demolitions where the district closed itself. In the same way as in Gellerup, we now ask 15 of the other vulnerable residential areas to make a fundamental change. In many of the areas, for example: Vollsmose, Tingbjerg, Bispeparken and Taastrupgaard, work is already under way. For the rest, this will be the start of the work. Part of the criticism in the hearing answers is about where people should move. This is an objection that is real enough. In the Social Democratic Party we have therefore made provision for the possibility of using the income from the sale of outside areas and the sale of housing to build new general housing in areas where it would otherwise be too expensive. It is crucial for the Social Democrats that much more housing and much more cheap housing are being built in our large cities, and the bill here can be a step on the way to securing it. Another objection that has been raised is the criticism of reducing the proportion of general family homes to a maximum of 40%. is a decline in population or where there is a very large debt in the residential areas where it will be difficult to get down to 40%. general family residences. We simply cannot use all the tools that have been made available. In Korsør, for example, there is a residential area where you cannot get many private investors in, because there is a population decline and has been for many years. That is why we have made a derogation for those areas where the full palette of tools cannot be used, as can be done, for example. Aarhus or Copenhagen. On the other hand, I must also say that there are some of the criticisms that have been made which I think have been mistaken. The idea that this would be an agreement that would result in much fewer general housing and would close many general housing, I believe, is mistaken. Experience has been gained whether you are talking about social democratic municipalities such as Aarhus or bourgeois municipalities like Høje-Taastrup • that you build the same number of general housing as you tear down. In Høje-Taastrup 188 general dwellings were demolished and a similar number were built. And so do you in Aarhus. So none of our experience so far suggests that this should mean the removal of many ordinary dwellings. On the contrary, experience is that the same number or even more general housing is maintained. So I would say that that part of the criticism seems to me to be exaggerated and perhaps more a sign of the upcoming election campaign than so much of what this bill says. With those words, I must inform you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112230	Thank you. And there are a number of Device List questions, you might say. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112238	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. We're both from Holbæk, where Agervang is. This is an area now on the ghetto list because 88 people need to get to work. Frankly, it would not be much better given that the Social Democrats, together with some of us, said: what can we do to actually help those people properly and actively in work instead of putting an entire residential area on a ghetto list, what actually does not help people, but on the contrary helps to remove these general housing? Wouldn't you rather take action to help these people get to work? Where's that bet? I really, really, really have a hard time seeing that. And I think it's really weird that the Social Democratic Party is helping to do this, which is just going to make life very, very difficult for some people who already sometimes have it hard enough in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112339	I would say that if Mrs Eva Flyvholm finds it difficult to see what is being done in Agervang in Holbæk, then I would urge her to read the local newspaper. The municipality of Holbæk has undertaken a great effort to ensure that more of those living in Agervang come to work. And in the overall agreement, not in this bill, but in the overall agreement, more money has been set aside, about 200 million. kr. a year, that is, more money for day care institutions, more money for schools in the area and more money for labour market efforts. So I would say that if it really was about Agervang and if it really was about not being done enough, then I have to call in the house. A great deal of local work is being done in Holbæk to ensure that these people get to work. But I can also sense that it is perhaps more about some general things. And then I would actually urge the rapporteur to ask exactly what she wants answers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112418	There's a chance of that now. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112422	I've read the article, and I've also talked to people, and I also know that the municipality says it's insanely hard to get these people to work. It's actually gonna take a long time. That is why we are left with the problems, and I think that the fundamental problem is that many of these housing associations will have to say no to letting people in who do not have a job. They will have to reject people, such as the United Kingdom. is on cash benefits. So, all people who do not have a job will then not have the opportunity to enter those residential areas in the future. That's the way you want to deal with it. Where are these people gonna live? Well, I'm thinking that we both know many of those areas well enough to know that it's not easy for these people to go out and get such a cheap accommodation somewhere else. Where are they gonna live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112506	I must again call on Mrs Flyvholm to read the local newspaper. Within a few months there are 200 new homes ready in Holbæk with a particularly low rent, and they are built by Lejerbo. There are 250 other homes on the way to being built. A large area for new housing is laid out at the old sports facility in Holbæk Have, where two thirds of what is being built is common. There are plenty of common homes in Holbæk. I think it is a strange criticism based on that area. When you look at what really happens, there are plenty of alternatives for people. And I would also like to say that this is an area which has had social problems for many years. Does Enhedslisten really think it's okay just to stand by and do nothing significant to change it? A whole series has been made on DR, called "Block on Assistance," which deals with some of the social problems there are. We have to do something about this, we have to have mixed housing areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112551	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112558	One of the many problems with this bill is that it is partly retroactive. If some of these residential areas have been on these lists for a certain number of years, then they can't really get off them. I really think it is a mistake that there is no more employment in the overall agreement, that is to say you only have with some people who are not allowed to move in, but there is no help for those who live there. Let us, for example: Take Sundparken in Horsens. There is a very high level of unemployment among the residents, and the municipality has driven a car out there and is trying to get them into work. But even if we manage to get under these criteria to get on lists for vulnerable areas, it is almost impossible to get there because they have been on these lists for a few years. I think that all of this really ought to be weeded out retroactively in the committee procedure we are going to have. I do not see at all that it is the policy of social democracy that people should be forced out of residential areas in this way. There's a reason people live in Sundparken in Horsens. That's because the rent is low. Then you have a low income, of course you apply there. It's not even more advanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112706	It may be that the rapporteur has some points that are relevant in relation to this with retroactive effect. Then we'll have to have that discussion. But when both Mrs Eva Flyvholm and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is moralising flexible rental and combined rental, so I must say in general that Enhedslisten's only full-time municipal politician, the only mayor in Copenhagen City, has been practicing it here for a number of years. So, both Morten Kabell and now Ninna Hedeager Olsen practice flexible rental in the City of Copenhagen in a number of residential areas. I am glad that it is the case today in Danish politics that municipal politicians solve problems when they see them, including municipal politicians from the Enhedslisten. But on the other hand, I also get sad that when I come in here, you blow yourself up and make a lot of it because there is an election campaign on the way and you want to mobilise a lot of people instead of listening to those you have locally, who are actually practicing these things, and instead of looking at the fact that when it comes to the matter, these arrangements work, and that actually brings about a change. But there I am burdened with being in a party that has as many mayors as members of parliament. I cannot just turn away from the arrangements that my mayors practice locally. And that is among other things. flexible rental.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112814	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112818	That's bullshit. I have visited many of these areas, and I have among others. visited Sjælør Boulevard. And if you're going to have to look at this retroactively, you've changed the criterion in the deal you've made to get on the lists about the criminals. And when you put it down from 2.7 to 2.2, it's like two or three residents in a settlement that makes it end up on this list of exposed dwellings and may end up with 60 per cent. of their general family homes must be privatised or demolished. It's really retroactivity. And it is Sjælør Boulevard who is in a good development and has just been renovated. Can the rapporteur not see that it is quite unreasonable to have a residential area which has tried to lift itself, and then you come and change the goalposts?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112900	Well, I just have to say that the propaganda company that is going on is claiming that 60%. of a residential area to be demolished, I simply do not buy. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has himself been on the city council in Aarhus Municipality and seen how plans for example. Gellerup is made, and there he can see that there is nothing near that 60%. I'm gonna tear it down. Nevertheless, the proportion of general family homes can be reduced to 30%. Frankly, I think that Enhedslisten's christiansborg department should visit Enhedslisten's municipal department more so that you can gain experience that they actually also use flexible rentals out there and that they actually also help to adopt big plans and change residential areas out there, among other things. with a resident chairman of the Gellerup Park who is a member of the Enhedslisten and who has previously sat in here for the Enhedslisten. I think it's too bad you don't listen to them anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112945	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011112951	This isn't about flexible rental or listening to the locals at all. This is about the worst attack ever on the general housing movement in Denmark, and the Social Democratic Party has put itself behind it. In the worst case scenario, we risk tearing down more than 10,000 common family homes or selling them, being taken over by private individuals and thus entering the market that we all know well that ordinary people cannot afford to be involved in. Then the rapporteur is trying to help me use the black square as an example. Excuse me, but with the restoration and reconstruction of the black square it was one of the areas where new general housing was built. You were against). Yeah, it wasn't really DKP, but let it go. What you're gonna do here is the opposite. You will privatise or tear down non-profit housing over the head of the resident democracy which exists in the general housing associations and which has been such an important part of the workers' movement's historical result in creating a housing market, also for people who...
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113054	Thank you. The time has passed, and I must point out that direct charges are not permitted in the Assembly Chamber, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113101	I can just say that the Enhedslisten in Housing Policy should be renamed the Conservation List, because you are always against what is coming. You're always for what's there. If it were up to Enhedslisten, we would still have had a housing market like what we had in the 1930s, where people were opposed to sanitising Borgergade and Adelgade. You were against sancturing the black square, which was a lousy speculation building. You were against the urban renewal at Vesterbro. Your own mayor, Gunna Starck, was against urban renewal. So, every time there comes some policy that is about housing, Enhedslisten is just against, and it was VS then too. Well, it doesn't change anything. Then I just want to say, when the worst attack ever is said, that I do not agree with that. Thor Pedersen in his time, when there were VKO majority in the 00s, set up to sell the general housing, just as Margar Thatcher did in Britain, suggested that it should be possible to buy his own home no matter what at a low price. I have to say that I think that was actually a worse attack on the general housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113152	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113158	The big difference from then is that it was the housing associations themselves who could decide. What you are doing, and what you are doing together with the expropriation minister Ole Birk Olesen, is to come with the state power and threaten to expropriate democratic housing associations, if not they partner right, to tear down their homes, put people out of their homes. Well, there's no excuse for this, sir. Kaare Dybvad. It is a monumental attack on our general housing sector, and it is embarrassing that the Social Democrats contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113230	I spent some time yesterday on Father's Day in my child's kindergarten up in Hornsherred, and there I had a member of the Enhedslisten with who was trained as a bricklayer. We discussed this package and then he said to me: I don't understand why the Enhedslisten and the left would like to keep these constructions. A lot of this is bad construction. It may well be, it is a more academic part of Enhedslisten that I ran into here, which has such a slum romantic idea that the black square was just super good before you tore it down that Adelgade and Borgergade were super good. No matter how strained 15 minutes is, Enhedslisten thinks you should keep it. I simply do not understand, I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113305	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113309	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the clarification. I'm gonna be a little upset, and I'm gonna be disappointed with the tone coming from the platform. Fourth Vice-President Yes, we must keep the tone here; swear words are not allowed). I'm sorry I fucking said that. It's okay. I'm gonna be really sorry. I think we have some very good, cooperative conversations, but then all of a sudden down here in the Chamber it is propaganda, and that is campaigning. I agree with the rapporteur that there are some challenges in how we politicians act in our room, but this is a question of a million citizens being imposed on a lot of things over their heads, over resident democracy, and I would like to hear the rapporteur reply directly to this question: is it not true that we are putting the local democracy out of effect here with this bill that you are supporting?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113410	It is true that the decision is being pulled up to the level of organisation. Then you can discuss whether it is to put the local democracy out of effect. It is in the same way that one can discuss whether, if a municipal decision is to be adopted in the Folketing, it is then to put local democracy out of effect. The essence for me is that an expropriation you can make today already. If you want to expropriate Vollsmose to build a motorway, you can do so, and you can do so with this bill too, because we say it is important for us that we get some mixed residential areas, it is important for us in Denmark that we make sure that we do not clumps all people who are having difficulty together in an area and then just hope that it will work out. So from this perspective, I have to say that the local democracy must always be a debate, but you can also discuss it when people come to Odense City Hall Square for a demonstration of 40-50 people and say that democracy requires you not to do anything about Vollsmose, because then you override the 114,000 people who in the municipal elections were down to vote parties into Odense City Council, all of whom have voted for a new plan for Vollsmose. And there I am not sure that I think it is more democratic to come up for a demonstration than to go down and vote for a city council election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113513	Does the questioner want to ask again?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113519	The questioner does. Kaare Dybvad: All the parties supported in Odense Municipality. The alternative said 'no' at first, but then they said 'yes', by having it written into the agreement, that it depends on the resident democracy, on the residents being able to pull the brake, on the need to listen and be involved. We're gonna tear that away now. The paper on which it is written is worth nothing. So I think that is a false argument. But let it go. About Agervang in Holbæk, Korskærparken in Fredericia, Finland's park in Vejle, the rapporteur says that these are worn homes, as he has just talked to a craftsman, so they must be demolished. The Finnish park has been awarded an award for the finest architecture, and should it just be demolished because they have landed on a list of arbitrary criteria that the rapporteur has helped to draw up?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113602	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113606	I would therefore like to correct the misunderstanding, if the rapporteur has understood it in such a way that I think that all areas on the vulnerable housing list are worn out or in poor condition, because I certainly do not think so. Many of these homes are excellent construction, Tingbjerg is an excellent building, and many of the other areas are excellent construction. But over the years, for various reasons, we have ended up in a situation where many of the social problems in cities have been brought together there. When the rapporteur asks whether it should be demolished, I think we should look at the plans that have already been made and look at our experience, because that is the best we can do. Is this about tearing it all down? No! It's about clearing 60 percent. of the homes? No! It is a question of removing a few apartments, for example. in Gellerupparken, e.g. in Taastrupgaard, to provide space and to tie it together with the rest of the city, and then a similar number of general homes are built elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113651	With this we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and move on to the Danish People's Party. And this is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011113700	For the Danish People's Party, this is a very nice package that we have had made. There are a number of good initiatives in the package that ensure that further focus is now being placed on the toughest ghetto areas. We need to ensure a mixed housing mix, mixed housing forms and a connection with the surrounding city. And, of course, I believe that, regardless of political convictions, we must agree that something must be done. But I understand we're not. Surely we cannot, as a society, accept parallel societies, societies where we do as we please and where we are not part of the surrounding society. So this is a state of affairs that we need to put an end to. Hopefully, the package here can make a difference. Hopefully, it can ensure that areas do not deteriorate and ensure that the citizens of Denmark think about when they commit crime and contribute to parallel societies. It has been a great deal in the media that the package may have some potential negative consequences. But let's be honest. So there is no legislation, no rules that only affect the intended ones. We can do our very best to ensure that it goes beyond the least possible without share in the problem, and we have actually worked hard to try to solve this package here. We have cleaned the package to the end, and in the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have listened to the hearings. One of the examples is that the municipalities now have the possibility of requiring the winding-up of a hard ghetto, including the transformation of housing or actual demolition where it makes sense. In the original proposal it went directly to the Minister if not a housing organisation and the municipality could agree. In this way, as far as possible, we keep the solutions and problem solutions out in the municipalities and, in the first place, in the housing organisations. Another small detail, which had an impact on the Danish People's Party, was that in some places there was an understanding that it was the general form of housing that was the problem. And it was important for us to stress that it is not the general form of housing that is a problem. It's the residents who inhabit them. In addition, the series of meetings with various actors and consultation responses has, of course, given rise to a number of things that we wanted to clarify and clarify. There was some clarification about pro forma intercepts, for example. the question of whether the police are obliged to provide information on matters which may affect a stay and what the consequences will be for disabled people, among others. in disability housing. And in that way there were a number of things. In the vast majority of cases, we actually feel well heard, and we feel we have come up with some solutions for which we can measure up. In addition, one of the things that Dansk Folkeparti has got is that Danish has to be spoken at these departmental and board meetings. For us, it was also important to point out what the consequences would be if it were not fulfilled, and it is simply that the meetings are rendered null and void and the decisions declared null and void. So we are pleased with that. Finally, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114016	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114024	Thank you. I was pleased to hear the rapporteur say that general housing is not a problem. Because that's what's really important. After all, we have a million people in Denmark who live in general housing, and in some of the residential areas there have been some times, sometimes, where there have been problems. I think it is thought-provoking that there are a large number of municipalities around Copenhagen that are not on these lists at all, but if you look back ten years, they might have been on the lists. There has been an effort that has worked. There has been a housing social effort, a renovation effort that has worked. I think it is really a pity that this work has not been allowed to go further. We end up with this: we have residential areas where you can risk housing being demolished. Let's take Sjælør Boulevard: You have changed the crime claim, which means that out on Sjælør Boulevard there are two or three too many people who are convicted. If the old criteria had been used, the residential area could have been allowed to live on quietly and make the best of the renovation that has been carried out over the last few years. Does the rapporteur not see that some specific residential areas are affected by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114134	I certainly can, because it is intended that some residential areas should be affected by this law. For we have had decades in which we have made efforts in these residential areas and many of them, unfortunately, without the great effect of some, fortunately, also with effect. And we need to get sharper on figuring out what it is that has an effect and what doesn't, and then we need those things. However, we cannot escape the fact that there are some areas where, no matter what effort we make, it is just not good enough. As far as this line is concerned, there's always going to be a limit. There will always be one possible decisive to one side or the other. If we set the line up with one, then there'd always be just one more. When you set a limit and you have a demarcation of something, there will always be some who just fall on the wrong side and think it is deeply unfair. But this must be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114221	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114224	I can say that the pensioners I visited out on Sjælør Boulevard, at least it was deeply unfair that after they have lived in the homes 20-30 years, 40 years for some, and have just lived on a construction site that has been renovated over 5 years, the government now comes with some more parties and wants to change some criteria for vulnerable housing and change the crime claim, so suddenly there will be two too many living in the settlement that has a criminal past, which may mean that the housing association must demolish 60%. of the housing. The pensioners were deeply concerned. Does the rapporteur not see that in some cases the four-way rules on when to go further are quite unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114307	I mean, the password was a slight teardown. That doesn't mean they have to demolish. After all, there are a number of options before you come to demolition, and I would expect the housing organizations and municipalities to find good solutions. There is therefore time to correct the problems that exist. And again, there has to be some kind of limit. It can be said that those who are pensioners, after all, have the opportunity to have a new home in the same area as many others, as a small extra consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114338	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114343	Thank you. I would like to read a quote from a woman named Ena Jarlund who lives in Bispehaven in Aarhus. She's lived there for 34 years. She says this: I will be so sorry to have to move, because I think I've had so many good years out here. Just moving out of my view and my nice neighbors, I don't feel like I'm gonna be able to survive. She is 84 years old and lives in Bispehaven in Aarhus. And this is just one example of perhaps thousands of people who are at risk of being directly affected by the agreement that the Danish People's Party is in; who are hit by what may be the most important thing for all of us, namely our dwelling; who must be put out of the housing they have lived for years. And it is not true that there are just all kinds of options. In any case, it is a question of this no longer being common family homes. It must be sold to private individuals as owner-occupied dwellings, or it must be demolished or converted. But the residents who live there go out. I got a call yesterday from a guy who voted the Danish People's Party all his life. He says he'll never do that again. He's an early retirement guy who lives out in one of those homes. How does the rapporteur feel about being behind this attack on these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114458	Well, actually, I feel quite excellent. As I say, when we make legislation, the challenge is that it will always hit some unintended ones. But it is with a greater purpose in mind, and it is the hardest ghetto areas where real parallel societies are being run. We cannot ignore that as a society. There are some greater concerns. That is also the difference between being a tenant and being an owner. There is no doubt about that. We cannot ignore the fact that there is a difference. Because when you're a tenant, you don't own what you live in, which means that there are some other risks to living for rent in relation to owning. We're not gonna get out of this. I think it's really bad for Ena Jarlund if she ends up moving. But we just have to agree that it is in the utmost consequence that she should move. There is a reasonable chance that a number of plans and a number of tools will be made that will not come to an end. That's where we're gonna start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114552	Mr. Pelle Dragsted has to press if he wants to speak again. Because it might be that the answer was so good that you didn't want to ask again. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114602	Okay, there are slightly different approaches to it from the various Presidents, but I will remember that in the future when Mr. Leif Mikkelsen is chairman. There's a difference between tenants and owners. That is a very honest answer. That is to say, the 40%. by the Danes, who live for rent, should not count on the Danish People's Party's hand in the back. They're like inferiors. As Ena also said, this would never happen in a parcelhouse neighborhood. That's because we who live for rent aren't good enough. And by the way, these areas are owned by residents through democratic housing associations. This is how our general housing sector is built up. It is private property that the Danish People's Party will now help to force down and expropriate with the state power in the back. However, it is good to confirm that the Danish People's Party is of the opinion that tenants can be exposed to something quite different from owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114658	In fact, I do not think it is the great rocket science, to put it honestly and honestly. There is no doubt that this, as I said, goes beyond some where it is unintentional. We'll get around that. In other words, it would be quite utopian to claim that legislation will not always have unintended consequences which we cannot escape. There is more to be done here. We have parallel societies where crime is committed. We have parallel societies where our firefighters cannot get in where our police can't get in because you drive a completely different parallel world in relation to the world we other people live in. Well, how can Enhedslisten not think that we should do away with it? How can Enhedslisten think it is okay to live in a parallel society and to contribute so much to insecurity in Danish society? I don't understand, and I don't understand why you guys aren't helping solve the problems that we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114751	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114755	I can say that in the Enhedslisten we would very much like to help solve the problems. We have also proposed social measures on many occasions. You can see that there is a great deal that works in the fight against crime. For example: There has already been a very good development in many of these residential areas. These are some of the things that I think are important to us, and we on the Enhedslisten would very much like to do so. But what the Danish People's Party is doing here, together with the other parties, is saying that if people say, for example. are poor, or if people are unemployed, they seem to live in parallel societies. This is going to hit so extremely many people, and as Pelle Dragsted had before: Is it really the case that the Danish People's Party thinks that if you are a tenant and live in a residential area, you just have to put up with the fact that you can be thrown out of your home, that it can be demolished? Honestly, so many people are affected by this. Is this really the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114849	Now I do not like politicians who put words into other politicians' mouths. I'd like to point that out. So I'm almost thinking about not answering for one reason. But let us make it clear once and for all: the social efforts we have made for decades have not meant that we do not see hard ghettos today; hard ghettos where our police and our rescuers and our ambulances do not have access. It just hasn't brought anything positive with these social stakes alone. Is that the same as saying that there should be no social stakes? No, of course there is. This is going on a lot of legs. We must continue with the social efforts, but we must also use some other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114934	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011114940	But what this ghetto package is going to mean is that thousands of families across the country are going to lose their homes. It's unclear where they're going. Right now people are protesting in insanely many cities because they are terrified of what is going to happen to their lives in the future. And there the rapporteur has said that I hope I do not put the words into her mouth, but I think I have heard the rapporteur say very clearly that there are some unintended consequences that we cannot escape from, of the legislation we have in place. Frankly, I think that is a cynical approach to other people's lives and homes, that you stand and make legislation in here that will mean that so many people are put out and that you do not actually even have an answer to where those people are going to move. I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party what to imagine all the people who are being hit now should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115027	First of all, it is not certain that they are going this far. Those who hopefully have to go in some places are the ones who have committed a lot of crime. They are the ones who contribute to the insecurity of these areas. What this is about is the most special, the hardest ghetto areas. These are the areas that this is about, where we are going to change everything and where ultimately you can risk a demolition or a transformation into other forms of housing. And it may well be that you have the opportunity to be one of those who buy one of those cohabitants, for example. come cohabitants, or condos or other. For it is not only poor people who live in ordinary homes, as Enhedslisten is trying to set up. Lots of ordinary average dancers live there, because fortunately it is a mixed form of accommodation. In some areas it's just mixed up a little whistle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115112	With that we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then I can welcome Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left. Is it true that this is actually the first time that the rapporteur has been on this platform? That's right, sir. President. ) Then there must be a special welcome, and good luck with the virgin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115130	Thank you very much. Yes, this is the first time I've been standing on the platform, and of course I'm really happy and honored about that. And since this is the first time, I welcome the fact that the draft law we are debating today is, in fact, based on a really, very broad political agreement. The bill follows up on the agreement on initiatives in the housing field concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the SF. And we all agree that there should not be ghettos in Denmark by the year 2030, and the bill we are discussing today lays the foundation for once and for all hopefully putting the ghettos to death. This is how I personally think that special challenges are, and we must say that the ghettos are probably also requiring special solutions. And that is why the draft law contains a number of initiatives which help to break down and prevent parallel societies. We propose, among other things: the strengthening of the authorising and rental rules, as well as new tools for changing the housing and housing composition in vulnerable residential areas. In short, municipalities and housing organisations will have the necessary instruments to put an end to the ghettos in Denmark. I myself have been the mayor for so many years, and I have also been the mayor of an area where there was a ghetto that was on a list at some point, and I have to say that I am aware of a great many of the problems that this entails. And what I am actually delighted about is that so many parties are helping to ensure that we actually have some instruments where we can work on this. So my approach is that the broad political agreement in such a way also gives us a starting point where we are able to tackle the challenges that exist. So in the Left, we are 100% behind this agreement, and the next legislative proposal we are going to deal with is precisely about the fact that there will be funds to do something about the areas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115332	Wait a minute, sir. rapporteur. After all, it is a pleasure to be on the platform for the first time and then to be asked questions and thus to have his speaking time extended. Carsten Kissmeyer Yes, that's nice. ) And this is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who contributes to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115345	Welcome. I understand that the rapporteur has some experience at home from a municipality in Jutland. I would like to hear the former mayor: if we were to draw such a picture that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament who did not like a particular form of accommodation and who came and said that in these large parcelhouse areas there was to be a maximum. be 40%. private-owned parcel houses, and then another solution had to be found for the rest. Then the rest had to be expropriated, converted into general housing, converted into cooperative housing, etc. Because that's what's about to happen here. There are, in fact, some people who live in a legal construction called a general housing organisation, which has ownership in common and where you really want to live quietly until you die. This is something that suddenly gets disturbed by the legislative proposal that is before us today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115449	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115453	I have to say that a great many of the residents I know, who are challenged by the things we have challenges with here, really want us to find solutions to them as well. In fact, the resident democracies I know of have also been actively involved in some of the solutions I have helped to make. So in this context I do not really believe that there is much difference. I would just like to draw a picture of the fact that we have a lot of small villages in Denmark, which have owner-occupied houses alone, but where we actually have to tell them today, in terms of planning, that this is probably not the future. So time has a meaning. Some of the residential areas we are talking about here are residential areas that have been built, for some, in the 1960s. These are bad homes, which have small bathrooms etc. I have helped to make very large renovation plans where we actually empty housing blocks and renovate them. The residents who live there are then assigned a different accommodation, and people are actually happy about that because in this way they have renovated their homes and will live far, much better and much more attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115557	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115601	If the bill had not been drawn up here, we could look forward to the renovation that the rapporteur has outlined. If the focus had been on raising housing areas; that there simply has to be more money for renovations; and there are thus sensible projects on a waiting list, 11 billion. kr. In the queue there would be the development that the rapporteur has just outlined. Instead, you come with this. The fact that the rapporteur says that there are challenges out there: the biggest challenge out there is the lack of employment. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a shortcoming in the overall agreement that nothing is being done in the field of employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115640	In fact, that is my view, and I know this very well, that the employment effort is quite massive. But we must at the same time admit that in some of these residential areas, the challenge is in fact that it is not just employment challenges that play a role. It is, in fact, that you have a really, really bad integration in relation to Danish society. So I think it's important that we say that this is one of the solutions among many.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115704	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115708	Thank you and welcome to the new rapporteur. I also expect the new rapporteur to have been down here before his accession and to sign the constitution. I have). And the Constitution has a section 73 which deals with the protection of private property and, as it appears, it is inviolable. If we look at the comments on the bill and go to page 52, then it is quite clear that: a settlement order under the proposed § 168b paragraph. 1, it must be assumed that it constitutes an interference in the property council of the general housing organizations in the housing areas covered and thus in a right protected by Article 73 of the Constitution. Does the rapporteur of the Left believe that using state power to expropriate the properties of private, democratic housing associations and to put their residents out is a democratic, liberal way of thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115814	Yeah, well, when it serves the general good, I actually think it's okay. And so do we in all sorts of other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115820	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115825	Would the rapporteur perhaps recognise that this had never happened here to people living in an owner's residence or a cohabitation, so that it would never have happened in other areas, even for the general good, and that this law does not mean that tenants and democratic housing organizations in which they are organized together are regarded as equal to other Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115901	In fact, I do not agree with that. In fact, I have been involved in expropriating private property where there was badness and where the homes that were were were poor. And that is why I have to say that the effort that is being made in this context compares me with what municipalities do when they also deal with private property, where children live really, really badly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115922	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011115925	But this is a very, very extensive attack, one might say, on the homes of a large number of families and where they do not necessarily live badly. It is not just bad housing that is at issue here. This is also true if people, for example. are not at work; so they risk being evicted from their homes. That's the kind of thing you go in and do now. And it can be said that these general housing areas are actually established on a private-law basis. They should have the opportunity to decide for themselves who is allowed to live in their territory. Back to it here about whether, frankly, not also as a liberal is very, very problematic that the state now gets the right to go in and actually take over entire housing departments and decide how to organize itself. Well, I guess it's so wrong with the constitution and clashes with this whole idea of the inviolability of ownership. It has to hurt a Leftman somewhere if you look right into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120025	I am, of course, annoyed that this is necessary, but given that I meet a great many people who, as such, think it is inconvenient to live in some of these areas, I must say that I also think it is the right and duty of state and municipal authorities and housing companies to actually get and give some tools so that they can do away with it. So in my optics, this is actually not so bad. I would have liked to have seen it go without it, but we have to say that it has not succeeded, and unfortunately it is in several places where we have some challenges that are not insignificant.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120056	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120100	So I have to say that it is not necessary to proceed as violently in relation to housing as we are doing here. This is what I see as a very violent attack on the general housing sector. If you want to solve the problems that exist, that is to say social problems, crime problems, etc., then it is quite obvious to go in and do something. I also think there is a need to do something, but then it is the support you have to go in and give, and I cannot actually see that lies in this package. And what I find so deeply tragic is that the government and the other parties here do not actually present any solution to the problems, but just help make it harder for people to get by. So quite frankly, is there not a problem here with people being so much evicted from their homes and violating their right to be in their own homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120147	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120151	I don't think this is gonna be wild and violent. This is how we look at the Gellerup plan in Aarhus that it is not wild and violent. But what's really important is that a lot of residents in these areas actually feel threatened and uncomfortable about the community they have. And then it has to be said that the local democracy also has some challenges in how many people actually participate in it in some of these areas. So there are some challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120221	Thank you. It's lunchtime, but I have a single question to ask you back to sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, and this is Roger Courage Matthiesen, so I'm gonna go through with it. This will round it off if there are no further inquirers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120232	Thank you for that to the President, and welcome to it. Thank you very much). I grew up in Gellerup Park myself. I was born in Aarhus and have been in Gellerupparken on both sides of the legislation together with white Danes and brown Danes. And I see this much more as a social problem than a cultural problem. Nevertheless, we have five criteria which have been chosen fairly arbitrarily, among other things. ethnicity. And then we have areas like Agervang in Holbæk and Korskærparken in Fredericia. And we have the Finland Park in Vejle, which bons out on employment and where exactly 23 too many people are not in employment, so they must have torn up to 60%. of their family homes down. They've got an architecture award for the most beautiful building in Vejle. There's a year-long waiting list to get in there. And it's a well-functioning area. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that they have landed on this list?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120339	I would very much guess that both the municipal council and the housing company's democratic body will find solutions to this without having to tear down those homes. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120354	But why do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party need to stand and stigmatise a million citizens in the general sector, talk down to them and call some of their areas ghettos? The rapporteur says that he is confident that good decisions will be taken. However, the rapporteur allows himself to call this a hard ghetto and calls them parallel citizens who do not want to be part of Denmark. What does that mean? What kind of reality does the rapporteur allow himself to present?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120429	What I would like to present is that we have identified that there are some challenges. And those challenges can be different in character. But I have to say that when some of the challenges are of such a violent nature that rescue cars and everything else cannot get into the areas, and the police feel threatened, then we have some challenges of a nature that we cannot accept in Denmark. At least that's how I see it. It may well happen that some of these areas fall out statistically and still have a different content. I am absolutely convinced that we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011120457	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left for his baptism here on the platform. That went very well. Now it's lunchtime, we'll resume the meeting at 8:00. 13:00, and there it is, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who is the first on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130003	The meeting is open. We will resume the examination of Bill No. L 38, and we've reached Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, in the ranks of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130017	Thank you. After all, it is a bill which concerns vulnerable housing and the agreement on so-called parallel societies, which a large majority in the Folketing is about to adopt. I think that general housing is the best form of housing. There you can live for rent, you don't have a landlord who earns on your rent, you have a community with neighbors, you have a resident democracy where you have an influence on the rent, and you have an influence on what you use your outdoors for. It is so disturbed by the fact that there is now a bill in which the government, together with the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Danish People's Party, will change it completely. All this talk about parallel societies is based on a very thin report, which was overruled when it came out. I think that we are dealing here with a legal procedure in which it is unclear what kind of parallel societies there are if they exist. Words are being used that are not adequate for what they are. I think it is quite unreasonable to label 16 residential areas as something called hard ghettos. I really fear that we will get into something here where the integration that could be better in Denmark is being bombed back with this type of bill. In the past, if there were bad homes, they were torn down. Now we are in a situation where you run the risk that if there is a majority in the Folketing that does not like the residents, you will remove the homes. Yes, there are problems in these residential areas, but you don't help people by tearing down their homes. It is totally lacking in these agreements that we are doing something to help the people who live out there in terms of employment. If you look at some of the areas on the lists here, among others. Skovgårdsparken in Aarhus, they will come from the exposed lists if there were 20 more who came into employment. After all, there is nothing in this law that means that you want to help them, so the residents have now decided at a meeting of residents that you would like to give moving aid to some residents if they voluntarily move from there. And that is because they want to avoid a situation where you are forced to 60%. of the homes in the settlement were to be privatised, sold or to be demolished. I understand their panic solution, but that is if you look at other areas, we actually have some thoroughly renovated residential areas where it is absolutely absurd that you start talking about demolitions and privatisations. We have Sjælør Boulevard, who has been through a renovation over 5 years. The residents have had to live with that. They have agreed to a slightly higher rent, and what do you experience? Well, in this bill, you're changing the criteria for when it's a exposed residential area, and that residential area has come down to only 2.3 percent. of the residents who are part of the crime criteria. Previously, there was a criterion called 2.7. Now the finish line has been moved, so this residential area has come on the wrong side of the line, because there are two or three too many people living in that settlement compared to the majority definitions, which means that they can risk getting into that 60%. housing must be privatised or demolished. The residents are genuinely concerned about this. I understand from today's debate that there are some who say that people can then be refurbished and so on. It actually means something to people that they have a home, even when you live in the general sector. So it does matter that if you have to move, then there is always some cost to it economically, and it is not certain that those who have the worst economy can just cope with the need to raise 20,000-30,000 for moving costs. The Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, and we think it is a pity that we have had such a forced process and where it seems that we do not want to listen properly to what is happening in the general sector. I also find it thought-provoking that we have settlements around Copenhagen, municipalities around Copenhagen, which have very large shares of general housing and where they do not have any of their settlements that are on these lists. I also find it shameful to see that some criteria have been changed and new list types have been found, so there are more residential areas that have been included in the lists. We run the risk of these liberalist rings spreading in the water, of dictating that there must not be so many of the people we do not want to live there and then the others move into other areas, and then we can risk that those housing units will also be on the lists and will have to make plans and demolitions and privatisations. I think it's fucked up. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130527	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130532	I probably expected that Enhedslisten could not support it after today's debate. One can say that one can of course hope that Enhedslisten, as with so many of the major housing policy initiatives that have been taken, will join in 20-25 years' time, just as they have done with the renovations on Nørrebro and in Borgergade and with all the other historical improvements. I hope that in 20-25 years' time, Enhedslisten will also be able to see the wisdom of these initiatives when new, exciting mixed residential areas have been created. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur one thing. That is because I hear very different from the various politicians in the Enhedslisten, for example. Enhedslisten's MP, Mrs Pernille Skipper, told me in a radio debate that it was okay to tear down housing if the residents decided. However, I also heard a debate in which the rapporteur himself was involved and where Jean Thierry from Bispeparken, a member of the Enhedslisten, who has confidence posts in the Enhedslisten, said that we can never accept in the Enhedslisten that housing is being demolished. So what attitude does the Enhedslisten really have? Can we accept that housing is being torn down, or can we not accept it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130640	Now I'm a professional, among other things. carpenter, so I know houses don't last forever. Therefore, it is natural that settlements do not last forever, and you have to constantly assess whether you have to do a renovation here or whether you have to build something new. I think we should leave that entirely up to the local democracy to decide. If the resident democracy chooses to say that here is something that it is not worthwhile to renovate, so we want to have something new done, then we are fine with it. You can't see it so square that you can just say that you don't have to tear it down at all. But why will the majority not leave it up to the inhabiting democracy? I find it a little strange to see that there are municipalities trying to implement this legislation before it is adopted in the Folketing. I think it's weird to see you do it in Odense. But one must also recognise that what has been agreed in Odense with all parties, including the Enhedslisten, is that one should not tear down. One must relate to a thousand homes, which must be converted or demolished, and one must involve the resident democracy in it. On the other hand, it is a problem in Aarhus, where an agreement has been reached, and it is without Enhedslisten, where it is defined in advance that a thousand homes must be demolished before this law has been adopted. I think it is quite unreasonable. I hope that was a balanced answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130754	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130755	I would like to thank you for your answer, i.e. that Enhedslisten well believes that it is necessary to tear down if the residents are in favour of it. I'm glad. I can't discuss the arrangements of Aarhus City Council, I'm not enough Aarhusian to do that, I'm afraid. However, I would like to ask a follow-up question and, in the meantime, congratulate the local people of Enhedslisten on their practical work in these situations. But the question is: Does Enhedslisten think that a list of vulnerable residential areas should at all be kept, or does Enhedslisten think that one should not have that type of list at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130829-2	I'm one of them. familiar with the fact that in Aarhus so much Aarhusian I am watching residential buildings with 500-1,000 residents and looking at what social development is there. And one adapts one's social policy to the local one. I think that makes sense. But it does not make sense to have such lists, where you call something hard ghetto and ghetto, and then, like some areas, to be in a particular category, without being able to help those areas sufficiently. Why do we not want to make effective employment efforts in those residential areas which have problems with too many people being unemployed? This is completely lacking in the agreements that have been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130906	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011130922	As the debate has shown, it is, after all, a quite comprehensive legislative proposal that we are debating. I am not really going to go down the many elements of the legislative proposal that have already been touched on, but when I hear what has been said about all these intransigences, interference with constitutional rights, etc. that have been raised in the debate, I would like to point out that a great many of the things the draft law is proposing, and which are intended to do, are already happening today, when a large number of plans, approved by the city councils, have been trying over the years to deal with these very problems, including demolitions, which result in some with success, others with less success. However, the overall picture of the problems tells us that, in our opinion, municipalities and housing associations need even stronger funds or tools in the famous toolbox, if you like, in order to tackle the intensive social problems. We do not believe that we can simply say that we need more employment efforts, as we have just heard. In fact, I think we are doing a great deal in advance here, and if we double the employment effort, we simply do not solve these problems. We're up against a completely different set of standards than what we normally operate for in these parallel societies. No, it takes something physical to say, I am sorry to say, and there is evidence that it matters that people with the same and often inappropriate standards and behavior live closely together. It means something. As has already been said, the situation is extraordinary, and that also calls for extraordinary methods. Having said that, I can easily subscribe to the recent view of the Enhedslisten that when you talk about ghettos in an ugly way, it is not conducive to problem solving because languages can help create reality and thus exacerbate it. I would like to help find another word, but that does not change the substance of the problems that we see and which calls for significant improvements. We must give that help to housing companies and municipalities, so that they get better tools. If we succeed, nobody knows, but this legislation offers at least better opportunities for a mixed form of housing than we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131213	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur mentioned that languages can create reality. I think so, because we probably share this intention throughout the Folketing that we would like to have mixed residential areas. I am not sure that the Danish People's Party is entirely of the opinion, because this would lead to something that was conducive to integration. However, I have the impression that the vast majority want there to be better integration. Well, then, it's a question of how to get to it. I have been involved in some of these, what to say, processes before an agreement was made, where you among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner how reasonable or unreasonable it was that it should be defined in such a way that in some areas there should be only 40 per cent. general family residences. What was that sacred number? I find it difficult when politicians in Christiansborg find sacred figures, and then you have to make legislation after them. I would like to hear the rapporteur, if not the 40% figure. as a sacred figure is quite unreasonable when we have municipalities around Copenhagen where there are more than 50%. general housing and where none of the departments are on these so-called lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131324	We have a great deal of legislation here in the Folketing, which attaches itself to a certain figure to be obtained, without really knowing whether that figure is right or wrong. But when there have been so much statistics on this type of problem, which I think we can call something other than ghettos, it is because we need some sort of manageable size to correct our intervention. That has also been said several times in the debate, among other things. on the part of the Danish People's Party, that wherever we set that limit, there are some absurdities. I think it is a basic condition when we make policy that we are going to hit some that it was not just intended to hit. What is crucial is that we shoot with guns that are of the right size and are neither too large nor too small. Here I think we need to have a little more gunpowder in gay, if I may put it that way, in order to be able to solve the very serious problems. For it has so it costs something to sit on your hands and do nothing, and we will not be involved in that. I think the debate that has taken place in the negotiations has shown that we have found a bed in which a great many people have been able to take part. It is also an important condition for us to be able to roll it out in the municipalities and in the housing associations that there are many parties behind it. I think that's a really good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131446	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131446-2	I do not agree that this effort has not helped. Well, when you visit Sjælør Boulevard, you see that they have a very low crime rate in that area. They have just renovated their homes, and they are in a positive development, and then there comes a majority who will adopt this bill, which then on the finish line changes it, so they come on the wrong side of the line. It is therefore legislation with retroactive effect that the majority is about to adopt here. Can the rapporteur not see that it is unreasonable to change the criteria in this way, and then you are inside or out of some lists? That is not what is a good way of governing on the part of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131522-2	No, it's a problem when you move the numbers around. But as I said before, we need some units that we can target. It is probably also true that there are of course areas and I think that I said that in my speech where we have good examples that things have worked. But that doesn't change the overall picture. The overall picture shows us that we have parallel societies that do not move forward, and that is what I think we have a duty to do something about. If it helps a hundred percent, none of us basically know, but this is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131558	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131600	Now both of us, the rapporteur and I, are also in the defence sector, and perhaps that is why the picture of the big guns is being brought out. But I have to say that, like the fact that I do not think it is a good idea for the carpet bomb in areas where children, women and men of all ages live, it is simply not right for the government and the other parties here who help to make it make legislation that you can see already will hit so insanely many people, in and with which they will be put out. So, 11,000 family homes around, which are capable of being demolished, are a very, very violent intervention in what is just, you might say, one of the most personal things in people's lives, namely where they live. I think that is very serious. In fact, I do not think it is going to solve these social problems or problems of crime, which I think we all agree should be addressed. It just ends up meaning that people have no place to live and that they have to be moved around in the can and get. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether all the many people who live for rent in Denmark should just assume that the inviolability of free property does not apply to them. Or how does the Liberal Alliance view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131716	Now I think the rapporteur is a little guilty of the problem we talked about before with ghettos. If you talk about this in this way, saying that you are bombing some tenants out of their homes, then I do not think you are arguing constructively to solve the problem. As far as the question is concerned, it has already been raised in the debate in the past that when we get to the point where it is the public good that counts, we can accept that we sometimes have to violate private property rights, as well as we have to do when important motorways are built, and what do I know? It is, of course, a general rule that we have, and which we often work with in the municipalities, that we have to weigh these considerations against each other. We therefore believe that the intensive problems we have in these standard systems in the ghettos are so serious that we also have to go straight to the edge of the provisions of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131823	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131824	I would say that these are very large residential areas, including residential areas, which are in some cases completely renovated, and residential areas, where very many of the residents say that they are actually happy to live there and do not think it is insecure. That is why I do not think that we are hitting where there are specific problems and that we are not helping to tackle the problem, but rather instead we are actually risking destroying everyday life for a great many other people. That is what I find deeply worrying. So I would say to that that the rapporteur is willing to go straight to the edge of the constitution, that I think it is very important that we stick to the constitution here in terms of guaranteeing people's personal freedom. I would like to ask the rapporteur: could it be imagined that the rapporteur would be just as adventurous in challenging the basic law when it comes to people's private property around, and should we perhaps not ensure free access to the free coasts up North Zealand, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131925	In the past, there have been examples in this debate of action being taken against rural areas, and what do I know? So I think it will be a little difficult to argue that we are in the interests of the general good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131939	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011131940	Thank you. I'd like to continue a little along the same lines. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that there are residential areas in Denmark where there are some problems, but these are some problems that we have to solve. In the same residential areas, there are also people who have a very common everyday life. In fact, most people do in these residential areas that are affected by this bill, but yet Liberal Alliance, Denmark's liberal party, decides to throw them away from home and home. I'm having a little trouble understanding that. So perhaps the rapporteur can explain to me when the Liberal Alliance thinks it has private ownership and when the Liberal Alliance thinks it does not have private ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132027	It's just not safe to throw people away from home and house. There are all kinds of solutions, and we know that very well, but there is some interest in talking this matter up, so it will be really, really violent to listen to. I am absolutely confident that some local solutions can be found, and I know of them, and I also know of areas in my own municipality where we have been working on these things. The best thing that can happen is, in fact, that we are not talking these problems up more than is necessary in this Parliament. This is the case on both sides, and I have mentioned some of them myself and then let the locals get the tools that are necessary. I don't believe you're so crazy that you tear down newly renovated things, as has been mentioned, I don't know how many times. That is not going to happen, because it is just an element in a political debate so that you can make something look foolish. People are usually reasonably pragmatic out locally when they have to find solutions, and of course they do not tear down newly renovated homes. That's absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132130	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132133	Thank you. I can easily talk about this in another way, but I just think it is a fairly fundamental question when it comes to private property, which is a constitutional right. Now I shall try to make it as concrete as possible, and let us say that no buildings are being demolished. I live at Nørrebro, quite close to Mjølnerparken, and I think that the government, which the rapporteur represents to some extent, owes an answer to where these people, who are no longer allowed to live there, will then have to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132205-2	We don't make laws like that in here. This is not a way to conduct a sensible political debate, so to be able to explain where they should live exactly, what precise addresses they should have when there is something that requires someone to move. A great many homes are being built at the moment, there are also housing in the countryside, and there are many who can point to areas where people can move. This isn't supposed to happen over night, it's gonna happen over a long period of time. But again, if you are interested in talking things out, you can always make them look foolish, but it is not useful to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132248	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132251	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the clarification. It's going much better in our vulnerable residential areas. In seven years, the proportion of convicted criminals in vulnerable residential areas has fallen so sharply that only two out of 22 of the areas meet the crime criterion until we just start screwing them up again with you. Then how does it make sense that you say that we blow things up when you have taken such about five arbitrary criteria that you think are relevant to talk about? I would like to hear about this from the rapporteur. So I would like to hear something from the rapporteur when the rapporteur says that it is not going to happen that newly renovated housing will be torn down: is it a guarantee that the rapporteur is now giving us that the rapporteur will withdraw the party's mandates in relation to this legislation if we go out and tear down newly renovated housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132347	I think that is also a strange way of conducting political debate. I said that I am confident that solutions will be found locally where, of course, newly renovated housing will not be demolished. Why would anyone do that? And the law is not so specific that it points to a particular solution. It is precisely intended that alternative solutions can be found locally. What matters is that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are getting new tools and not sitting around and doing nothing. Is that the answer from the alternative, that is to say, to do nothing because some crime figures have been found to fall? But there are, after all, many other social criteria that are crucial. I am just saying that we cannot continue to look at the fact that we have one society in one place and that we then have quite different standards in another society that gives insecurity and all sorts of other badness. So it costs something to do nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132452	I can look at sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, that he wants to say something, and that's fine, and he gets that now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132458	But, sir. Villum Christensen, why put it like we're doing nothing? I have just informed the rapporteur that the rate of crime is falling dramatically. There are also other challenges, okay, but there are more young people who get an education, 200 percent. More in Vollsmose. There are more girls with non-western background who are doing better than white Danish girls, on average. It's going really well in the education system. It is true that there are some problems, but it is not proportional to the legislation being proposed here. You're always talking worst case scenario... there's tanks to get into these residential areas... we can't get in there... but worst case scenario with this legislation is that it's 60%. of the general housing stock to be demolished because you come up with five criteria. Is that fair? Is it proportional to the challenges we face in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132549	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132550	It is not fair to make it as if there are 60% to be demolished. It's a scare picture again. Of course you find local solutions where it makes sense to mix the homes, where you do something in one place and somewhere else, depending on, of course, also what you have invested and how the situation is just the local place. We don't sit here and dictate that 60%. I'm gonna tear it down. But apparently it's a picture that keeps on appearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132617	This is an extremely interesting and fundamental debate, and I hope that the viewers will keep a close eye on it at home. Because what has been made very clear now is that the position of the Liberal Alliance on private property is such that, if it is politically opportune, it does not matter. We have a bill here in which it is openly recognised that what is being proposed is expropriation in the sense of the Constitution, and the Liberal Alliance is fine with that, because it is just the tenants. But let me ask you this: if you have the functional view of private ownership, which the Liberal Alliance apparently does not have, then, the principle that else goes and says why does the Liberal Alliance not want to give the municipalities the authorising right to private rental, that is to say to just 10%.? Because then we could actually get these mixed residential areas. You want to mess with ownership outside general housing companies, but you do not want to help find housing by going in and securing the authorising rights for private rentals. Is that anything other than double standards and hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132726	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132727	It is not double standards when we find that we have massive problems in a few parts of the country, which have been insoluble for many years, that we then provide municipalities and housing companies with new tools. I also said in my speech that it is not certain that it will work. We basically don't know that, but it's better than doing nothing. Then you can always talk about principle and functionality in relation to assessments about expropriation. I just have to say that if a lot of people feel insecure and feel that there is a social problem, then one can also argue that the interest of the general good is such that it is possible to get over that fine limit, which must always be interpreted in relation to the provisions of the constitution on violation of the rules of expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132826	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132828	Yes, if we really want mixed areas, we must also have a place where the people who now live in that area can move to. This could be done if we are now in the process of breaking private property, by giving the municipalities the right to authorise private rentals so that people could enter some of the areas that are today converted ghettos, if that is the case. Of course, the Liberal Alliance will not be a part of that. Because it's the private property owners whose property you'd have to go in and tamper with. But when it comes to the democratic housing associations, it is as if it were ownership. I just think we should leave it as it is: the Liberal Alliance votes in favour of a proposal that attacks the private property rights of democratic housing associations. Enhedslisten votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132913	It's not like they're social housing associations. That is because there are problems where there is some non-profit-making weight that allows you to go in and discuss these things. It's not the particular form of ownership. At least that's how I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132930	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011132938	Thank you. I've had my entire childhood in Gellerup Park myself. I was born in Aarhus and raised in and around Gellerup. Now I stand here as a member of the Folketing, and I am incredibly concerned about the Denmark we are creating. I've been on both sides of the law in my time at the Gellerup Park, and think, young people up there, I've been trying to feel like a counter-citizen instead of a citizen. The solution and what helped me wasn't stigmatizing rhetoric and calling these areas ghettos, it wasn't excluding people through a policy, it wasn't having dogmatic lists and criteria that are just pulled up so it sometimes works out by a hat. But it was through communities, inclusive communities, it was through recognition and the sense of equality in the society of which I am a part, with the rest and on an equal footing with the citizens I met. It was my way to the Folketing: freedom, liberalism, equality, legal certainty, that everyone is equal before the law, that everyone is equally worth the same. These democratic values are being starved with this parallel society package. Overall, it is deeply problematic that the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF insist on categorizing these residential areas as ghettos. I am pleased that at least the Liberal Alliance rapporteur would like to find a different concept. As the only country in the world that I know about, we in Denmark are sanctioning negative labels to this extent to citizens and to a society. It is the only country in the world that clings to such stigmatizing language and further marginalises citizens in these particular areas, and then we create and produce opposers, not citizens. I stand here and see that we discriminate negatively, that we believe that we can solve the problems of punishment, with hetz, by force. We are talking about it as if it is the biggest problem we have in our society that some people are doing badly, because we should not help them and we are doing nothing. We have seen a lot of good figures, and yes, there are plenty or something to do yet, but these are not the biggest problems in our society: we have a climate, we have stress epidemics, we have an employment system, we have young people and their stress and their education, a public school that is kneeling, which also plays a part in these social challenges. After all, the Parallel Society Package needs to be measured against all the other policy we are making, because our country is linked. And there was a reason why we created the general housing sector. It was because there were some who had difficulty in paying the homes that were otherwise on the market, it was because there were some who needed some extra help. I have then mentioned today a large number of residential areas which are actually doing very well, but which are on the hard list. That is problematic and I have said it in the Chamber, and I say it again. In Denmark we have not had the same civil rights movement as we have had in the United States, but it is high time that the friendly revolution, civil disobedience and opposition to the status quo were united across country and city, united across skin color, to create equality and meaningful lives for everyone, no matter where you live in the country. And I welcome the resistance that is growing up and out. Keep going! Keep going, everybody! The right to housing is central to the individual's ability to live a dignified and secure life, it is constitutionally guaranteed. We have also talked about this today and it is protected in a wide range of human rights conventions. It's a million citizens we're talking about here. So what can we do? What aren't we gonna do in advance? We do a lot of things. We've made such a draft called "Cities for All." This proposal talks about maintaining the resource-rich areas, reverse flexible rental, ensuring that those who are actually model breakers, those who find a job, those who find training, can continue to live there. We're talking about raising the quality of day care institutions... not forcing children into day care... we're talking about betting on good clubs and bedrooms, we're talking about more sport and culture, we're talking about more police. We are talking about a lot of things that are much less resource-intensive than taking 10 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of medicinal products for human use. I think that's really, really bad. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133454	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133500	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech from the rapporteur. There was one of the rapporteur's party colleagues, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, who recently said that, and I could not find out whether it was sarcastic or it was sincere that the Social Democratic Party wants to mix residential areas like a bag of Friday sweets, in response to the Social Democracy's ambition to ensure that there are different social groups represented in each residential area, and that you meet each other crosswise, and that there is this classmate effect, where the students who have the lowest starting point can be helped by middle and working class children to have the same opportunities as everyone else has. But it was referred to as a mixed bag of Friday sweets, and there I would really like to hear the rapporteur: does the alternative share the basic ambition of ensuring that there are mixed residential areas, mixed cities, that you meet each other crosswise, and that it is not the case that in some districts all those who have difficulty and in some other neighbourhoods have gathered all those who are upstairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133609	Thank you for the question. Of course, I share that ambition. I also share the ambition to speak respectfully and properly to people. I am pleased that the rapporteur is talking about bringing together a lot of vulnerable citizens in those areas, because it is often not voluntary for people to live there. It's to help people move on. And that's why we point to reverse flexible rental, so we're actually trying to keep some of the pattern breakers that are also, so they don't just move out of those areas every time there's a little success or there's a little development. We know that too can help create these mixed areas and change the statistics that you have thought should apply to this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133654	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133654-2	Thank you for that, and thank you for your confirmation. If I were to give friendly advice, I would say that it is sometimes very good to get away from the world of the word, i.e. the world of semantics, and then look more at the concrete changes that are taking place. I'd like to hear about something. The rapporteur now referred to flexible rental. I am not quite sure how to understand it, but what will the alternative actually do if you share the ambition, share that problem with us? What are we going to do to create mixed residential areas, for example? in Vollsmose or in Tingbjerg?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133732	Thank you again for the question. I was just reading it up before, and I'd like to do it again. We need to expand the Tingbjerg study in relation to this poverty in the expectations of these areas. We have sp members of the police and social agencies who have negative expectations that keep these young people from being able to break these patterns. We would like to see more flexible rentals. We'd like to restore the local police stations. We want mentor support for young criminals. We would like to have fixed track training for risk groups and employment for risk groups. We want to lift up the residential areas, but not control them. Of course, they need to be involved in their renovation. We want to make sure that we have resident academies that create the development from below in these areas. And there are a large number of other proposals that I can then send to the rapporteur, in the motion for a resolution by Mr Cyer For Alle from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133827	Thank you. I have several on the list, so there is ample opportunity to make its views known. The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133833	I agree with the rapporteur on the criticism of the language used in the legislation. It is often when we get such legislative proposals that we have worked hard to ensure that what is in the text is correct. Here it is then called these areas ghetto areas, despite the fact that such a thing does not exist in Denmark. There have probably been areas up to World War II in Germany that could be regarded as ghettos. I therefore very much agree that this is not the type of language to be used in Danish legislation and at first reading, and I hope that we will be able to get into it during the committee procedure. So the rapporteur asks: what are we going to do? I mean, I really think there is a need for a revolt in this matter, and I very much hope that we can do something between the first and second readings, but perhaps the rapporteur could unfold it a little. What can residents do in this process that we have now to shout out the majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011133944	Thank you to the questioner for the question and the reflection. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is important to keep raising awareness of the issues. Whether it's through civil disobedience, demonstrations or whatever it is, you have to do it or whether it's through the use of these numbers or the lack of the same that we've got. Nor do I believe that the government has actually examined whether the people it says live in a parallel society really want to be part of a parallel society. Has there been a dialogue? It's like it's only gang members who live in these 12 toughest areas that have now been defined. That is not the case, and I think that is really, really a pity. Then the State Building Research Institute has presented 12 basic parameters, on which we could also focus, as a broader frame of reference than just these criteria that have been decided by the parties and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134042	Thank you. The next is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134049	First congratulations to the rapporteur on standing here today to be a model breaker and come from a ghetto and stand on the Parliamentary platform. I understand that the rapporteur considers this to be extraordinary. I think it's super nice, and it also shows that you can if you want. You can break the patterns. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, it is of course easier to break the patterns if circumstances change, but you can make it difficult for yourself, or you can make it difficult for others to live in an area that we can call a ghetto, and we can also call it a flower park for my sake, I really don't care. I mean, it's all about what kind of criteria we're laying down on it. And the fact is that a number of the very good initiatives that the Alternative lists up, I believe that the vast majority of municipalities and housing companies can sign up to are already in many places. These are things that we all know about before. Those are things that are going on out there, but it doesn't have enough effect. It's not moving anything. If we are to have more, like the rapporteur, who is actually able to move forward and break out of this, then we need to see to it that we do away with these parallel societies that exist in some places. When I tell you that all the fine initiatives you are taking are very much in use around here and that it hasn't moved anything it's been going on for a long time, then I need to know: What are the rapporteur's next initiatives to ensure that we get rid of these parallel societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134224-2	Thank you for the question. I have to get the questioner to clarify that. What does the questioner mean it hasn't moved anything? Does the questioner think that integration in Denmark is not going any better? Does the questioner consider that there is no over-representation of minority Danish girls, who are actually higher on the scale of characters than ethnic Danish girls? Does the questioner not think that we have many more minority Danish boys in the education system than we have had in the past? Does the rapporteur not think that things are going better? Is it all bad? I have to get a clarification before I answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134303	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134304	Now I thought I was the one who asked questions in this round. The rapporteur had ample opportunity to do so in the past. And I still need answers because you're using my Question Time to ask me questions that I have to answer. And I can answer them on the basis that what we can see is that we have ghetto areas today; we have areas where there are parallel societies; we have areas where citizens do not feel safe; we have areas where the police cannot drive in, where fire fighters cannot drive in, where ambulancemen cannot drive in. Does the rapporteur honestly not think that these are problems that need to be addressed? And does the rapporteur honestly not believe that many of the initiatives mentioned by the rapporteur as the alternative's initiatives are tried and tested? It may well be that they are pointing in the right direction, and I recognise that there is a development, but things are moving too slowly. We have tough ghetto areas that are dangerous out there in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134353-2	I have heard the questioner say that there is infinity and, indeed, I recognise that there are problems where we cannot get in with our power of order and so on, but I do not recognise that it is on the scale that the questioner is talking about. In seven years, the proportion of convicted criminals in these vulnerable residential areas has fallen so sharply that today only two of them have met the crime criterion before you adjusted it. That's the fact of the statistics I've got. So it is not right to say that nothing is happening. A lot of initiatives are taking place and a positive development is taking place, and that is what we believe we should develop and strengthen rather than stigmatise, marginalise further and deprive people of their equal rights before the law, as all other citizens in Denmark have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134440	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134502	Thank you for the floor. We would really like to work on the real problems in the world from a radical point of view, including in vulnerable residential areas. There are municipalities that cannot lift everything themselves, and we would like to help the state, of course, but not in this way. The ghetto stamp is not good. Like several of the previous rapporteurs, I have major problems with the stigmatisation of language, and it is to me that arbitrary limits are set for when an area is a ghetto. The ultimate consequence of the proposal may be that good housing should be destroyed unnecessarily. The Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134540	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We go further in the rapporteur's line and then we have reached Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, is that not right? She's not here right now. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134603	Thank you very much. The legislative proposal here, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, is the implementation of the agreement we reached back in May with a view to combating parallel societies in Denmark. There must be law and order everywhere in Denmark. It must be the norm for children to learn Danish in Denmark. There should be no areas in Denmark where the norm is to be on public support. For too many years, the challenges facing some heavily burdened residential areas have not been properly addressed. Let's do it now. With the agreement we have made to combat parallel societies, we ensure that the last ghetto in Denmark is completed by 2030. We are opening up the vulnerable residential areas so that the areas become more coherent with the surrounding society and a more mixed housing mix is created, so that no children grow up in areas where it is not the norm to speak Danish or where it is not the norm to be part of the labour market. I have a sincere desire for a future where it is not a them and us, but only a us here in Denmark. That must be the ambition. This requires that you accept that you have to live by Danish values and speak Danish. We must have a coherent society where we do not have enclosed enclaves where there is parallel society to the Danish. I am glad that we are now tackling the problems after too many years of misguided goodness have been left to do. I am quite sure that future generations will thank us, especially those who had the prospect of growing up in an area where the prospects for, for example, the future of the European Union are very great. the field of education or the labour market would not be very good or where the risk of ending up in crime would be significantly higher than in the surrounding society. These are the children that we provide far better conditions for doing well in the future, not as new dancers, but just as Danes. That is why housing companies now have better opportunities to throw out criminals. Crime in ghetto areas is being severely punished. Residents on transfer income will not be able to move in, all to clean up and create a more mixed housing mix. But don't the problems just move? Some may ask. But it's not like that. For the sum of crime and the sum of social problems are not constant. In fact, the concentration of ethnic groups and socially vulnerable unemployed and criminals in themselves is self-enhancing and creates a negative spiral. Therefore, the solution is to create a more mixed household composition. That in itself will solve a great deal of the problems. That is also why this agreement provides great resources, so that, among other things, we can do something about it. strengthen the efforts around the children and ensure a good start to life. I think that there are a great many good initiatives and, of course, we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134911	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and that is first, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011134916	Thank you very much. After all, this discussion is not about whether we want mixed residential areas, because we all do. It is not good to bring together many people who are out of work or who are similar in the same areas, and it is good that we have mixed towns and residential areas. That is not what we are discussing, because everyone agrees on that. What we are discussing are the tools that the government will use, including the Conservative People's Party, namely that with state power and with threats of expropriation people will be put out of their childhood homes. I can't stop thinking about it. I have stood in this Chamber many times when we have discussed the situation of the homeowners, together with the Conservative People's Party, and I have often agreed, for example. When we were discussing the cause that increased faster than people's income. I cannot tell you how many times I have heard this very, very worried and almost tearful presentation of families that may be forced out of their homes because taxes increased. Where is the concern, where is the concern, where is the understanding of the interference in human life now, when it comes to the tenants of our democratic housing sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135025	I am very pleased that we agree on the objective, because the objective is, of course, that children should not grow up in areas where they actually get a really hard start to life, precisely because they grow up in an area of massive problems, and we must have done something about that. We must also recognise that the tools used so far have not been sufficient, and that is why we continue to see that there are problems in many places. In concrete terms, there are 16 areas on this list that are now going to have to draw up an overall plan on how to dismantle the area or transform the area so that they can look better like the surrounding society. That's a good way to go. There is a long time to make a sensible plan to change and open up the area so that it will look like the surrounding society and so that we get the mixed resident composition. However, some new tools are needed, and that is what we are giving the opportunity to do now. There are also some hard tools with an ultimate opportunity for expropriation, yes, because we have to be absolutely sure that this plan this time is being implemented, so we get rid of the ghetto areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135123	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135125	I think it's good to be honest. One is honest and says that these are tenants in the democratic housing companies, so private property does not really matter to the Conservative People's Party here. The rents do not have the same value, they do not have the same right as those who live in the owner's residence or cooperative residence. That is the result, that is what we have heard throughout the day. What about the people who are to be put out of their homes? Because this is not an offer, as the rapporteur says, this is coercion, this is coercion with the state's monopoly of violence behind it. Basically! And this is going to mean that families are forced out of their childhood home. Can't we just be honest about the content of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135214	About ownership, I would say that I actually think that I would feel exactly the same way if there were parcel-house areas in Denmark where there were ghetto formations, where it was not the norm to go to work and where children grew up without learning Danish. Then, of course, you have to intervene as a society. That is what we have seen, but we have been standing by for too many years. Now we are giving some tools so that we can deal with the problem once and for all, and I am actually sure that future generations, especially those children who otherwise had the prospect of growing up in these areas, will be very happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135247	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135251	I would actually like to call on the rapporteur to go out in reality and visit some of the areas on these lists. It is not that I want to say that there are no problems. I just want to say that if you look at the lists you have made here and look at the well-renovated areas that are on the lists, such as. Sølør Boulevard, where you have then changed the criteria, you will see that you have made legislation with retroactive effect. For years we have had some criteria as to how much was needed in crime for people to be on these lists. So because society's crime, at least the one being discovered, is falling, you have moved the finish line, and that means that the well-renovated area of Sjælør Boulevard is suddenly on the list because there are two or three too many criminals. I also think that there is some legal policy in this area. I mean, how can you punish a residential area so hard just because there are two people who have been convicted? Is it reasonable that we should get into a situation in which we have to do away with 60%? of the general housing in the area? Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135353	This isn't something that's happened overnight. The areas on the list, the 16 hard areas, are some that have been on the list for years, and that is something that needs to be corrected. Then you should also remember to have the proportions in place, because now Enhedslisten makes it sound like we're just after all the tenants in the country or after the general housing companies. This is a very, very small part of the general housing companies, but this is exactly the small part where there have been problems for years. They are the ones who have been on the ghetto list for years, and we need to do that, and we need new tools, and these are the options we are giving them now. There is also a need for an ultimate deadline, and that is what we are giving now, so we are absolutely sure that by 2030 there are no ghettos on the ghetto list in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135436	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135438	There are a large number of these areas where very few people decide whether or not you are on the list, and we are in a situation where you use old data when you have to make the list, which means that when a list comes back here on 1 December, it is not based on 2018 figures, but on 2017 figures, which means that the effort you might be making now is measured from old figures. That is why we are doing something which is legislation based on old figures. Does the rapporteur not see that this is completely unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135507	I think we should base it on the right figures, but I just cannot understand this argument we have heard, yes, how long we have dealt with this case now, that we should not make an effort here, where there are some particularly vulnerable groups in Danish society, some who are actually kept in a vulnerable position, precisely because they live in an area where we have more difficulty breaking the social heritage, and that is actually what we are now providing some tools for where we are actually demanding that by 2030 we should have done away with this. You make it sound as if everything is delightful and old in these residential areas, and I just have to remind you that these are the areas where garbage cans are set on fire, where stones are thrown after ambulances and fire brigade when they come out there. I just think that we should have the proportions in place and say that this is, of course, a determined effort to address precisely those places where there are the greatest challenges that we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135557	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135600	Thank you. I have already mentioned three areas where it is not about some throwing molotowcocktails or pursuing the ambulances, but about 26 people who are not in work. Is it proportional to the drastic interference in constitutional rights, in human rights that is being made with the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135630	Wherever you set a limit, there will always be some who are close to the border. I understand that it is 26 in one of the areas that makes you close to the border. In other words, wherever we set a limit, there will be some who make you come on one side or the other of the border. But it is not just one criterion that needs to be met here, it is a number of criteria, and you have to have been on the list for years to be considered at all for these overall plans. Then I think that we should be careful to keep these overall plans up to date, because it is actually the opposite; in fact, these are some areas where we go in and provide some special tools in order to strengthen efforts towards some of the most vulnerable citizens in Denmark, some of the children who otherwise had the prospect of having a difficult start to life. In fact, they are now getting better opportunities because we are getting cleaned up and because we are getting strengthened efforts in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135719	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135722	Better opportunities? I do not understand that they get better opportunities from being forced out of their homes, that they get better opportunities from being dictated by the state where they are not allowed to live. The rapporteur needs to deepen for me how it offers better opportunities for a better life. After all, one million citizens are still missing in the general sector. There's 12 on the list. It's Vollsmose and Gellerup, for example, who hit on crime. The rest is ten on the list on the basis of the criteria you have chosen, where it subscribes one way or the other. Art. 24, 10 pcs. Is it so arbitrary that the rest, i.e. The majority, are affected? I think that is disproportionately. The rapporteur has two questions to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135808	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135809	Well, it's just that growing up in a society that's more like the surroundings gives you better opportunities. It is clear that if you live in a society parallel to the Danish one, where it is not the norm that you see people going to work, where it is not the norm that you speak Danish and where crime is higher, then it is harder to break the social legacy than if you live in an ordinary area that otherwise reflects the Danish one. After all, it is the children who will have a different model than some of those who may have committed crime or who do not go to work. It helps to open up those areas. That is what will give those children a better start in life, and will have a better chance of doing well in the future. That's where we go in. I just don't buy the argument that the sum of crime is constant, because just by getting a mixed housing mix it will look more like the surrounding society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135859	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011135902	Thank you very much. The rapporteur talks a lot about the need for children to have better opportunities. As I see it, it's still a huge challenge that you're facing, that a lot of families with children are going to lose their homes with this ghetto package. I am therefore very interested in what the rapporteur intends to do to ensure that these children can then grow up in a good place. One of the things you can see is that it is really, really difficult to get a cheap accommodation in Denmark. There are many of these children's parents who find it difficult to pay very high rents, and especially in the larger cities it is difficult to get a cheap accommodation. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: will Conservatives help to see whether we can do anything to give municipalities the opportunity to point out some of these people apartments with private landlords, so that some of the private landlords are actually forced to take social responsibility for these children growing up under the best conditions possible? Will Conservatives be involved in this in the effort to mix up our residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140013	I heard Mrs Flyvholm say earlier that almost all of them lived in these ghetto areas, but that is not the case. The fact is that an overall plan is now to be drawn up, and the overall plan then has about 12 years to be implemented. This means that in the course of the 12 years, people can be gradually refurbished or replaced in the household composition, so that we get a housing composition that more closely reflects the Danish society as a whole. If you go in and look specifically at these areas and follow the normal migration profile in the ghetto areas on the list, you can see that by far the vast majority of people will be able to be refurbished by completely natural means. So this picture you paint up that there are thousands now to be refurbished is just not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140102	Mrs Flyvholm wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140108	What I am actually asking here is that if the idea is that you have to mix up the residential areas if that's what's meant by this, then I guess it's gonna take you to get some other people into some of these areas that you see as socially burdened, but that also requires that people have a place to move. That's pretty logical. So what I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether the conservatives will also be willing to look at how we get the housing stock mixed in some of the areas that are more prosperous. Will it help to give the municipalities the right to authorise some of the private rentals as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140143	I am absolutely convinced that, in the vast majority of cases, this composition can be changed just by making a sensible plan, and of course you have to be able to make it locally based on the conditions that are now in the different places. However, I should just like to remind you that the mere fact that we are making it impossible for beneficiaries of certain types of transfer income to move into those areas will in itself mean that the replacement will take place quite naturally. Then there will be a few for which an extra effort will then have to be made, and there are also some things in the agreement that mean that they, for example. can be moved forward on waiting lists etc. So I am convinced that even if you are trying to paint a picture of thousands of people being recaptured, it is a relatively small problem when we look at it over 12 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140222	With that we can thank the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, who still sneaks in here out of order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140234	Thank you. In Denmark, over the past few years, we have seen a worrying development which should really make every socialist concerned, namely the division of the way we live, the way we go to school, the way we live. It has probably always been the case that the very richest didn't necessarily wrestle with the very poorest people in everyday life at least, but I remember after all how in my childhood and in my youth there were people from most layers and backgrounds in the classes, and that my neighborhood consisted of a motley bunch of people. We have put this cohesion at risk by banishing the most vulnerable and many of our new fellow citizens from remote areas to the same housing blocks. As we concentrated the people in the same places, the bourgeoisie moved their children from the areas, from the institutions and sent them to private schools and eventually moved themselves too. As a result, we have not only come to live divided, but are now also living divided. This cannot be the intention and therefore SF also supports the Housing Agreement. For too many years we have been talking and watching these things happen, but we have refused to act on them because it was easier to talk about what cannot be done than the opposite. In order to implement the measures provided for in the Housing Agreement, it is necessary to establish criteria for the residential areas to which the Agreement applies. They will never be perfect; no matter where the limit is set, some will fall just below, while others will be just above. But with the proposal we have, in my view, a collection of the most important criteria for dealing with it that the cohesion of the areas is not, as we would like it to be, employment, crime, education and, indeed, ethnicity. Because, of course, we shouldn't live divided by ethnicity. I must honestly admit that I am deeply puzzled by the attacks on that particular criterion. Are there really any of my colleagues who think it is quite fine that we live divided by skin color? The SF can support the proposal, but of course it also notes that there are a number of players who object to the practical application of specific criteria. This applies, for example, to BL's statement that the income criteria should be calculated on the basis of the national average rather than regional, so that Copenhagen, for example, is not unduly affected. These are objections which I expect we in the SF will have the opportunity to discuss in committee work, and we in the SF also look forward to discussing the proposals that the housing associations and municipalities will jointly draw up with a view to solving this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140546	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three brief comments for the time being, and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140551	Thank you very much. I can honestly say that I am incredibly sorry and disappointed that the SF has gone along with this, because I think it will hit a lot of the people who have the most difficulty. I fully agree that we need to do something about social efforts and education and so on, and we are working with the SF on this every day, and I think it is much more along the path we should take than this, which I also see as a very, very violent attack on the general housing sector. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The assessment is, of course, that the consequence of this bill is that the municipality simply gets less access to assigning people on cash benefits, on educational aid and integration benefits to those areas which are designated to be ghetto areas. You certainly wouldn't be willing to take in people who can pull you down in the statistics either, you might say. So the obvious question for SF, to which you have to be able to answer, is: Where will SF have the municipalities to find accommodation for these people who, like everyone else, also have the right to have a place to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140711	There is not a simple answer, I would say. In fact, there are many answers and many offers of solutions. I really want to say at the outset that the starting point for making this agreement at all was somewhat different from what the agreement ends up with, so equally disappointed The Enhedslisten is that SF is still part of the agreement and thus also has an impact on how this is going to develop, just as disappointed I am that Enhedslisten left the negotiations, because I think we could actually have done very good general housing policy together in this agreement. I would like to say that I have sometimes asked myself that if I were a single mother with two young children, I would think it was really cool to be asked for housing in an area where everyone else or many were also out of work. Would I think it was awesome that my kids should go to a school where all the kids were bilingual? And then I have to say that no, I think that was not as cool as the woman who is not ethnically Danish, from the Centre for Art & Interculture at Nørrebro, who at some point told me that her child should have gone to kindergarten with the white children, but she couldn't do that. I would like to give this woman the opportunity that her child can also go to kindergarten with Danish children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140830	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Kirsten Normann Andersen I actually had a lot more answers). There's gonna be plenty of apartment, 'cause there's gonna be a lot of questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140834	I'm just really afraid that's not what's going to be the consequence of this legislation at all. On the contrary, I believe that people will simply not be able to find a place to live, i.e. that they will be squeezed out of these residential areas and that they will not have the opportunity to have another home. And what I think is the really big problem here is that you leave some people behind, and that I also do not see that SF has a clear answer to where people should move, that is, what should happen, and I think that is very worrying. I would also like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur envisages the development of the general housing sector in the light of this. What will be the consequence is privatisations and demolitions, so could we not fear that the general housing sector will become weaker and weaker, and is that what the SF wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140921	The last thing I can say clearly no to. SF doesn't have a dream that we should privatise and demolish everything on the contrary. In fact, in the SF, we think we have given too little priority to the general housing sector, for too long, and we do have an ambition to use the agreement to also lift the general housing sector. That is why the agreement states that we have the possibility of giving the general housing sector the opportunity to build new ones when selling. It can actually be agreed directly. I would therefore like to call on all the municipalities to consider it in every form, and also in sections for general housing in the areas where new reasons are given, because that makes a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011140959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141005	I took part in some of these debates and I can say that it is not right when the SF rapporteur says that we left the negotiations. We weren't invited to the final negotiations. That's the way it is. And with the content, we would not have made the agreement either. I wonder why the SF defends everything and is in the deal. I would actually urge the SF rapporteur to accept the invitation from Sjælør Boulevard, the group of pensioners who meet once a month and who are rather concerned about what this law can bring about. After all, this is an area which has been in a good development, which has, as such, come off the list and which has renovated their homes. Residents have agreed to move into newly renovated homes, even though the rent is slightly higher. They've had an impact on everything. Then the SF and the government come along and change these criteria so that they get back on the list. And if they don't get off that list, then they get into the situation that they have to privatise or demolish or convert a lot of their homes, and that's not their wish. They have just been through the whole process and have renovated them according to their wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141114	Now it's not like the SF is just defending everything. Negotiations are now such that you give something and you take something until you reach a final result. It has been important for SF that we continued to influence how developments should be. This also means that we have already seen the first examples of how we would like to put some other lines than those that have just been put in the first place, and that is also being looked at. I believe, in fact, that, as the municipalities and the respective housing organisations get their hands on the negotiating table and talk about what they might be for some solutions, we will also have to discuss again whether compromises should be reached along the way. It is certainly the SF's ambition that the agreements to be made in these relatively few areas, after all, should be made in a way that the housing organisations and municipalities agree and can also see themselves in the solutions that need to be, because both housing organisations and municipalities also think that there are some problems that really need to be solved. In fact, there has been a great deal of running on the initiatives of the municipalities, you can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141215	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141225	Yeah. I remember it as if SF had previously been opposed to such a very square measure of ethnicity. Now you have some lists here, where you re-evaluate some things, and if there are over 50%. With a non-western background, you can be on these lists. When you look at how many people have Danish citizenship of these people, I find it shameful that you choose the criteria in these lists. After all, we are dealing with some areas where more than 75% live, which have Danish citizenship, and those who do not have it may not have, because there are some parties that have made it very difficult to get it. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a problem that so much of this work measures ethnicity?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141307	I really think it's a little weird that Enhedslisten will not help to look at the real problems that real people have in these residential areas. When you end up having a school where virtually all children are bilingual and how many children do not actually speak properly Danish, I think we have a common problem. I would really like to have mixed residential areas. I really want mixed schools, and I do, because it is good for children with other ethnic backgrounds, but it is really good for the Danish children too. In fact, I think that some of these hateful rhetorics, to which I think Enhedslisten also refers here, arise precisely from ignorance of each other. I would like some more people to move to my neighborhood because I think it is healthy for us to live together and that we get to know each other in a different way. In fact, I believe that integration will succeed. There the ethnic Danes become wiser, just as we will live better together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141407	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141412	I would like to read a quote from a woman who lives in general, called Fatma Tounsi, who is part of the movement called General Resistance, who is trying to influence and counteract this terrible law. She says this: "I think that the general housing sector and the cooperative model on which it is based are one of the best that we have in Denmark. Today it is the housing associations that own the homes, and it is through the resident democracy that decisions are made on what to do with them. And now politicians intervene on the basis of criteria that are one hundred per cent politically determined. The security I have always felt about knowing that there will always be a place where I can afford to live, that no one can throw me out of my home, has been changed. When I read this quote, it's because I can be sure that SF is aware of how serious an attack on the general housing sector this is about. The general housing sector is something that has been created as one of the most important achievements of the labour movement, the most important achievements of civil society in the last century. Housing which was affordable for ordinary employees and which was also part of a democratic structure, where the residents of the departments themselves decided how to do so, for example. would adapt and have its outdoors. So what we are seeing now is that the politicians in here at Christiansborg, with the participation of the SF, are coming over the local democracy and the spirit and principles on which the general housing sector is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141535	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141538	But I simply do not agree that this is the premise. That is certainly not the starting point. The starting point is that the general housing sector, i.e. housing associations and municipalities, must sit down and agree on what the good solution is. That's the starting point for these deals. And that also means including the resident democracy. I can be a little bit concerned about whether we are really looking at the blind eye or whether the Enhedslisten might choose to look at the blind eye and avoid listening to the citizens who are actually voting with their feet right now. It could, for example, be done. be the Turkish married couple in Skovgårdsparken, who said that they would actually like to move somewhere else for the sake of their children. Not because they didn't like living there, but because they wanted their children to grow up with ethnic Danish children, too, not only, but also. I really, really, really want to give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141638	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141642	They also have that opportunity today, and I would also like to help them to do so even more. However, I am slightly offended by the wording used by the rapporteur, namely that this is about the municipality and housing associations having to sit down and agree and that the local democracy must be involved. Yes, but in the kind of negotiation that is going on, where you have a big club on your back, which, if not the other side is right, you can give them a dunk in their head and have expropriated their homes and have them torn down. That's what the law says. If they don't agree, then the expropriation minister Ole Birk Olesen will bring the bulldozer. After all, it is not dialogue, it is a violation of the local democracy of the general housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141725	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141729	I think we can be fairly calm, because I think. that there are limits to how much money the Minister of Housing has to expropriate all general housing in Denmark for, but let it then be a moment. I believe that we succeed in having these dialogues across, and I believe that a great many housing organisations and municipalities actually think that there is a challenge here that they would like to solve and that they would like to take responsibility for solving in the best possible way, in terms of what is now of local challenges. That is what the agreement provides for. Then some money has been set aside, and then there are some clarifications on the criteria, if I may say so, which are actually intended to ensure that we agree on how much we can afford and how many homes can be afforded in this round. For the starting point was that there were in fact some who would like to have some more housing including both Enhedslisten and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141824	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141828	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for his clarification. I hear a little in the rapporteur's example of the minority Danish woman, who must also have the opportunity to get away and have a different life, a better life, that it is made their problem that they are there. Is that it? Because we have some structural circumstances in our country, which means that there is inequality socio-economically, in the housing market, and these are, after all, some of the things that the general sector should overcome. So why is it that we use tools called coercion, called hetz, called problematisation and stigmatisation in language and in political action, instead of speaking inclusion? What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011141924	If we agree that this is a structural problem, I fully agree with the questioner that it is not the problem of people, it is a structural problem, then surely we also basically have to take responsibility for the structural problem that we ourselves have created, by building the general sector on one side of the street and the private sector on the other side of the street, which meant that the area in which the questioner himself seems to have grown up ended up having four schools, of which two of the schools belonged to the parcel houses and the other two schools belonged to the blocks. That society was a mistake, and I think we actually have a joint responsibility to correct that. For SF, this is not the only housing policy measure in relation to the general housing sector. In fact, we have several proposals in the backpack right now that we are working on, because we think that we have had a very good opportunity to give priority to the general housing sector. In fact, I think that we have failed together, both from one side and from the other side of the House. I think we have a responsibility to undertake to do something about that afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142033	We agree, but why did SF say yes to L 6 on Tuesday with a 30-percent rating in kindergartens? Well, we need mixed towns, and we also need mixed kindergartens, so you can't have your child in the nearby kindergartens, but if you as a white Dane, ethnic Dane get an offer, then you're not forced to take it. The rapporteur himself says that the better citizenship was removed when these vulnerable residential areas developed. Then why are we now giving them an out and saying, 'But you don't have to go to the minority dancers and be with them?' Why is it not right before the law, that you should of course accept the offers that are made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142121	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142124	I think that the questioner is over in something that belongs to the municipal authorising law, and I know that there are some municipalities sitting right now discussing with themselves: how do we solve this task? But the wish is for our children to go to mixed schools. I enjoyed that my own children had a Tamil educator in kindergarten who wanted to play Tamil wedding with them, because it gave them some cultural knowledge. But if there hadn't been this family who could also go to kindergarten with my kids, they wouldn't have had this experience with each other. And I still think that the woman from the Intercultural Centre at Nørrebro has a point when she says: I also want these opportunities that ethnic Danish children have; my child must have the same opportunities as the ethnic Danish children have. That's her opinion. And I want to make sure that she is also equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142214	Thank you, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142221	Thank you. I think it's very interesting about these specific examples. Now I was born and raised on Nørrebro, and I live right next to Mjølnerparken. I know very well about the women's centre that the rapporteur is talking about, and I think that what we just lack some concrete answers to is: where are these people going to live? In other words, the rapporteur says that the SF is part of this agreement in order to have an impact on how it is going to go, as it were, in reality. And there I just think we need some very concrete answers: where are all the people who get hit by this deal and this bill going to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142259	They must live in the apartments to which all sorts of others are also queued. They just need to take precedence over those citizens who today have the opportunity to choose where they want to live, namely those who do not need to be assigned housing. Because we have come to set up society in a way that gives people housing in some very specific areas. And that is not always the cheapest areas, I would like to say. It has sometimes been the case that the municipalities have been given the authorising right to the most expensive areas, because the citizens could then receive some housing allowances on the same occasion. I don't want to get involved in the fact that this is how you happen to have done it. But I would really like some of the citizens who are being assigned today to, for example, the Gellerup Park in Aarhus, which I know a little better than Copenhagen, also to be given the opportunity to be assigned an apartment at Trøjborg. And that actually means that I also recognise that some of these citizens are going to be in line with other citizens who otherwise wanted to have a cheap apartment at Trøjborg. But it is also socialism.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142404	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142406	Then I can inform the rapporteur that in Copenhagen it will mean that the people who live in the Mjølnerparken will be assigned to some private apartments or assigned to some condominiums that they cannot afford it either today or they will have to queue for a co-operative apartment, so there is a very long queue and they are also very expensive because housing prices have gone up completely. In other words, one of the things that is important here is that you are assigned to an accommodation that you can actually afford to pay. And that's something that I think this bill does a little bit up with, so you just assume that all people can line up to get a really expensive apartment in Copenhagen. So I actually think SF owes an answer to where these people are going to live, i.e. in some occasions they can actually afford to pay. Where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142459	Thank you, and that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142502	But we already have the challenge that, as the people in these areas actually get into employment and they very often succeed, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, they also move from the areas because they simply cannot afford to live in the relatively expensive apartments. This means that there are some other places where you can also apply for accommodation and come to live. And that is actually the reason why we continue to maintain citizens with different ethnic backgrounds or social pressures in the same residential area. And then we do not really see a development where it changes into a greater mixedness. But may I not say that I do believe that we are going to see very many municipalities queuing up to say that something needs to be done now to allow more general housing to be built. I think we're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142549	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have reached the end of the rapporteur's line, and so we can give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011142559	Thank you for that and thank you for the good debate. On March 1, 2018, the government presented the • A Denmark without a parallel society • No ghettos in 2030.• On the basis of the initiative, the government has entered into agreements with the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party on initiatives in the housing field that counteract parallel societies, and on the prohibition of moving into the hardest ghetto areas for benefit recipients in the cash assistance system. The parties to the agreement agree that there should be no ghettos in Denmark by 2030, and this bill lays the foundations for us to get rid of the ghettos in Denmark once and for all. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parties behind the agreement, here too, from the platform, for their constructive approach and the good cooperation that we have had and hopefully will also have in this area. We are addressing a major and complex social problem. This is reflected in the draft law, which contains many important initiatives. Over the next many years, the bill will have to bring about a significant change in a wide range of residential areas, which are currently facing massive problems. This will undoubtedly be a long, cool move, but I am convinced that with the bill we will provide municipalities and housing organisations with the instruments needed to put the ghettos to death. Sometimes there are examples that we in here at Christiansborg make some laws and rules, and then maybe less attention is paid to what comes out of it afterwards, i.e. what effect the effort has. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that this is not going to happen with this effort. Together with the circle of agreements, I will keep an eye on the work being done and the development going the right way, because we need to get rid of the ghettos. We must be sure that the efforts are directed at those areas where the problems are most serious, and that is why the draft law provides for an adjustment of the ghetto criteria. The four criteria, as they are today, relate to the labour market, crime, education and income. A exposed residential area is proposed to be delimited to residential areas where at least two of the four criteria are met. A ghetto area means a exposed residential area where the proportion of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries exceeds 50%. Finally, a new category, so-called hard ghetto areas, which are residential areas, has been on the ghetto list for the past four years. A transitional arrangement is proposed in this respect. In 2018-2020, a residential area should have been on the ghetto list for the last 5 years in order to be characterised as a hard ghetto area. The transitional arrangements will allow local actors to make additional efforts, allowing the initiatives already under way in a number of residential areas to have an impact which is reflected in the statistical data. The draft law contains initiatives aimed at preventing the emergence of new vulnerable housing areas that could develop into ghetto areas. There is a need to change the composition of residents in the vulnerable residential areas, which are characterised by the fact that a high proportion of residents are outside the labour market, that many are on transfer income, and that a large proportion of residents originate in non-western countries. Today, local authorities must not direct housing seekers to ghetto areas or areas with many unemployed people, if they have been convicted of crime, have been evicted from their homes because of house-order violations or come from a non-western country. The draft law will apply to all vulnerable residential areas, and the municipalities will not be allowed to assign residents on transfer income to a vacant dwelling in these residential areas in future. In addition, it is made compulsory for municipalities to apply the rules on flexible rental in vulnerable residential areas, so that housing seekers who are in work or in training are at the forefront of the queue for a dwelling. In addition, home-seekers for cash benefits, integration benefits or educational assistance must not move into a hard ghetto. In addition, the sale of general housing may help to change the composition of the dwelling in a general residential area. In order to make housing in vulnerable residential areas more marketable, it is proposed to allow housing organisations to terminate tenants in connection with the sale of housing to private persons. In this context, it is proposed that the landlord should offer the tenant a replacement residence. Crime creates great insecurity, especially when it is committed in the area and by people living there. It is not fair to be able to terrorise an entire residential area. It must therefore be easier to expose tenants who have committed serious crime. The same applies in cases where members of a tenant's household are convicted of such crime. A new ground for cancellation is therefore proposed so that a rental relationship can be terminated where tenants or members of tenants' households are punished with an unconditional prison sentence for unsafe crime. The condition is that the crime is committed within 1 km of the property in which the person concerned lives. This is, for example, the case. on gross vandalism, burglary, violence, threats, extortion, robbery, arson, rape and killing. In order to avoid the development of several areas into vulnerable residential areas or ghettos, the proposal provides for the possibility for the highest authority of the housing organisation to take appropriate action against the formation and maintenance of vulnerable residential areas. As a supervisory authority, the municipal council will also have better opportunities to intervene and to impose interventions in vulnerable residential areas. In addition, it is proposed to make it more attractive to sell properties in vulnerable residential areas. New possibilities are provided for the use of proceeds from sales in vulnerable residential areas for improvement and rent reductions in other vulnerable residential areas. The sale of general buildings in one of the hard ghetto areas allows the proceeds to be used for a special basic purchase grant for the construction of general housing. This will enable new general buildings to be built in areas where basic prices are too high to build general housing today. In addition, it is possible for municipalities to waive the requirement for additional purchases in the vulnerable residential areas. There are some residential areas that have been struggling with great challenges for a number of years and that have not yet been able to reverse the negative spiral. In these residential areas there is a need for a significant change, such as: is about reducing the number of general family homes in order to ensure a mixed housing form and a mixed housing mix. These areas must be converted into attractive residential areas. This must be done through, for example. the sale, demolition or new construction of private dwellings and the supply of services. It is therefore proposed that all hard ghetto regions should be included in a development plan. The objective of the development plan is to reduce the proportion of general family housing to a maximum of 40%. By 2030. It is the housing organisation and the municipality that must together make the plan, which must indicate how the target is achieved. At the same time, it is proposed that, exceptionally, when a number of conditions are met, the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing may approve a reduction in the proportion of general family dwellings to a proportion higher than 40%. In agreement with the parties behind the agreement on parallel societies, I intend to table an amendment allowing the municipal council to draw up a development plan if the housing organisation and the municipal council cannot agree. I have sent a proposal to that effect in external consultation. It is also proposed to allow the Housing Minister to decide that hard ghetto areas should be completely settled as a general residential area. For some ghetto areas, the challenges of parallel societies are so massive that it is both practical and economical that it is most appropriate to dismantle the ghetto area and start over. It is therefore proposed that the Minister of Housing may require the dismantling of a hard ghetto area. If the injunction is not complied with, the Minister will be able to take the necessary steps for a state takeover of the area in order to dismantle it. A state takeover will be carried out by law. It will therefore be the Folketing which decides on the State's acquisition of a residential area and the terms of the acquisition. Then I would like to thank you once again for the positive debate. I look forward to the committee reading in the same positive spirit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143507	You're welcome. There are three short comments to be made, and the first one is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143517	Well, I actually understand that the Minister is satisfied. It is, after all, a far-reaching proposal for privatisation that has been reached here to have a majority behind it. Well, we could risk getting down to 40% in that hunt. general family housing comes in situations where there will be privatisations and the sale of general housing. We can also risk getting into it, that it will be a settlement plan. I must admit that I find it difficult to hear that this is particularly liberal. I mean, I don't know where the inspiration to be able to go as far as to expropriate housing because that's what's coming from. We are faced, of course, with the fact that if the housing associations do not want to go hand in hand with what the majority wants, then there may be state takeovers of housing. It's just expropriation. Is that not what we should call it, instead of just saying that it is a new legislative proposal and resolution? It's a state expropriation of general housing that's being opened up to in this bill, isn't it correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143623	It is wrong to say that we are talking about privatisation. The general housing organisations are private associations which are neither owned by the State nor by the municipality, nor by the region; they are private associations. What is special about the general housing organisations is that they have built their properties with considerable public support from both the municipality and the state. Public support has been given to solve social problems. We note that in some housing departments an absolutely small minority of housing departments do not solve social problems; social problems are created. This does not mean that we are living up to the unspoken contract which is the basis for massive public support, namely that we have to solve social problems. That is why we feel entitled to go in and ensure that the areas are changed so that the public funds invested in the area can be used for what they were intended to do, namely to solve problems rather than create problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143725	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143728	Well, there may be a lot of prejudice about this. You can look at the areas that are on the lists here and try to dive into what it really is for housing social work that has been done and what sort of processes are involved in people moving in with a bad economy, living there for a few years, getting a job and moving out. Then you will see from the pattern of relocation that there are actually residential areas that help people to obtain a dwelling in those periods of their lives where they may have a low income. These numbers aren't right at all if you don't have those patterns.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143807	I think that Enhedslisten's approach to this is very strange. I understand that Enhedslisten thinks that the stakes made in the Gellerup plan are good. Now the problem is that the government and a majority in the Folketing want to take similar action in other residential areas with the same problems as the Gellerup plan has had. Now the Enhedslisten has to decide. Does Enhedslisten think that it is completely unproblematic that there are large residential areas where there are hundreds of percent general housing that collect a large proportion of citizens with social problems? If Enhedslisten thinks it is unproblematic, why does Enhedslisten think it is good that Gellerupplan does something about the problems that are? This is what we want to see done in other areas too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143853	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011143856	There's the small difference, sir. In Gellerup it is the housing associations themselves who have decided what they want to do. In this case, an alleged liberal minister comes with the threat of expropriation, and ultimately, when we talk about the hard ghetto list, the demolition of entire housing blocks or the sale of them to some private investors, or where the minister thinks this should be sold. It's basically something else. This is a complete lack of respect for the resident democracy on which our general housing sector is based. So for this reason, they have not solved the social problems: these areas, if any, have taken on a huge responsibility because, because of the housing policy of the Minister himself, they have had to place a great many people with social problems there. And then you come and you say it's the fault of the housing associations after they've been wiped out. The problem is that there are no other places where people, such as the United States, are involved. are affected by unemployment and sickness, can pay a home. You cannot just get one thing recognised so that it is no longer under discussion, by the Minister. This bill opens up with this command to expropriate, that is to say to use state power to take over a private housing association and level it down or sell it to private investors.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144025	After all, the debate here is at different levels, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Pelle Dragsted's party colleague was out in a defence speech for the residential areas and made a claim that there is no need to do anything out there at all. And then it is that I point out that the Gellerup plan does some of the things that we want to do elsewhere, but there is Mr Gellerup. Pelle Dragsted is so right. The Gellerup plan has gone some way along the road of volunteering. We would like to do so in several places, including those where residents do not want to be there. It is true that we will do so, but it does not change the fact that the model of the Gellerup plan that has been put forward is worthy of our will and should be used elsewhere. One cannot say, on the one hand, that there are no problems at all in these areas and, on the other hand, that what is being done in the Gellerup plan by voluntary means is good. Both can't be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144121	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144124	No one is saying that there are no problems in these areas. We have areas where too many people have gathered, and it is not because it is their fault or because housing associations have not done what we have asked them to do, but it is because we have a housing market where it is really difficult to place these people elsewhere, and that is because, as we have seen, there has been a completely crazy development in housing prices in the big cities. But I understand that it is difficult for a liberal minister with this, I understand that you are twisting a little, because it is not every day that we in the Danish Parliament give the Minister and the Danish Parliament the right to go out and throw families out of their childhood homes, use state power hard to expropriate their homes. It's not every day, and it's good that it comes to light. That it was to be a Home Secretary of the Liberal Alliance who was in charge of this, I probably did not expect it to be, but that is how one can be surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144222	Sometimes when sir... Pelle Dragsted and others from Enhedslisten speak about the integration problems that exist in Denmark, it sounds as if you have come to a new realization; as if you have realised that people with another culture have come to Denmark, which poses a challenge when they group themselves somewhere. Other times, like we get to, for example. Mr President, if you will allow me to say that you are doing so, and we would like to do something about the problem, it sounds as it is now from Mr Seligman's point of view. Pelle Dragsted, as if those people live together involuntarily because they have nowhere else to live. That's not true. Sir. Pelle Dragsted knows very well that many of those who live in those areas do it as part of a way of life, and they do it as part of a state-supported and community-supported way of life, in which we pay large parts of the bill, by living as they do, both in the form of housing areas that have been built and in the form of cash assistance they receive, also in the form of crime that they commit in their own areas and in the areas outside their own territories. So it is not true that some poor people are sitting there who have nowhere else to live. It is people with the way of life who have chosen to live in this way with others who live in this way, and we will do something about the problem now, whether or not it is the day Mr. Pelle Dragsted is able to admit that there are problems, or it is a day like today when he will not admit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144331	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I would just like to remind you of the speaking time in here. We have a very long agenda ahead of us. The next speaker is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144340	I think there are a lot of people who, for example, if they do. had the salary that a minister can scratch in every month would choose a more lucrative form of housing than can be made available in many of these residential areas. The reality is that a lot of people don't. Well, there's a reason people need to have a cheap and decent rental. It's because you can't afford to pay for an expensive owner's residence, you can't afford to pay for an expensive cohabitation. What is happening with this law now, as I see it, is that the government and the other parties are ready to go in and simply force people out of their homes because unfortunately they have come to a list. I just have to say: does the Liberal Alliance really think that coercion towards people in this way, coercion towards people in relation to some of what is most private and important for people, that is, their very homes, is all right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144438	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144441	As legislation is already in place today, people can be required to move out of their homes when they tear down their building in the context of a development plan for a residential area. I don't know if Enhedslisten supports it or not. I actually believe that Enhedslisten supports it. Now we add that people can also be asked to move from their homes by sale, i.e. not only by demolition, but also by sale. We are doing this because we think it is stupid that, in order to develop an area, it is necessary to tear down the building in order for it to succeed. We think it is better to use the good resources that exist, for example. by a sale, to develop the area. I can't believe Enhedslisten doesn't mind. Isn't it better to sell a home than to tear it down when you want to develop a residential area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144531	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144535	I must say that I certainly do not think it is good to sell out of our general housing. No, because I think that our general housing has an extremely high value for Danish society. I am well aware that the hottest dream of the Liberal Alliance would be to have the entire housing stock privatised. I can see what the project is in it. I think, however, that the Minister also owes an answer to where these people, who are being squeezed out of their homes, are going to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144605	But most of this change can happen by natural removal. In these areas, there's a natural removal rate of 12%. a year. That is to say, even after five years, 60%. of the housing moved away. We have a plan that says that you have to be done by 2030, that is, 12 years after we adopt this legislation, 12 years after you can reach 60% in five years. removal by natural removal. It's people moving on their own every year. So, of course, they have to live where they live today when they move. In fact, we have a mechanism which says that in the case of sales they must be housed primarily within their own territory, in other words in the department where they live today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144650	The next question is Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144655	Thank you. I was with the minister a lot along the way. After all, we agree that there are challenges, the question is how. We were not invited to the last negotiations, unfortunately. Professor John Andersen has stated: The government's indicators for parallel societies measure a number of socio-economic indicators showing different forms of inequality and social vulnerability. But there is no research or study showing that there is a coincidence between it and that one is opposed to the common standards of society. It should be understood in this way that I heard the Minister finally say "and that's why I'm not with any more that these people themselves choose to live in these areas, that they also choose to be criminals. There's a professor here who says there's no coincidence. These are structural priorities, political priorities. It is structural and social imbalance in housing policy, for example, that has caused people to be grouped in those areas. So my question is this: does the Minister have any research or studies that show that there is a correlation between these socio-economic indicators and that in fact one chooses to be against the standard of society itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144815	I have no objection to being opposed to society's standard of living. There are many standards which are just tradition and habit and which we must oppose. When I talk about standards that are important, they are the very basic standards of our society: standards of how to behave towards others, what a social spirit one must show when one is a community, etc. You can see that, among other things. challenged when in some of the areas we cannot send in police or postal services or ambulances or fire brigade without being met by young people from the area who are not being rebuked by the other residents of the area when they throw stones or otherwise attack the authorities when they get into the areas. I do not know of a single area which is not a ghetto area in Denmark where such things happen. This is only happening in the areas we are talking about here. So, yes, I think there is quite a lot of evidence that this anti-society mind, which is referred to here, exists in those areas and to that extent only in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144928	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011144932	This is of course interesting, because it is probably the delicate thing about choosing the statistics and putting them at the level they have been set, because it sounds rather hollow that you want to expropriate that you want to deprive constitutional rights when three seriously exposed areas such as Motalavej, like the Korskærparken, which Munkebo is no longer on the list. So we have to ask ourselves these questions: has the government given up dealing with the problems in those areas? But if not, what are you going to do about them? And if these three areas can change without being torn down, why wouldn't the others be able to do it too?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145015	Now I have heard many times in this debate the claim that it would be contrary to the Constitution and so on. The Constitution defines precisely that one can expropriate that one can then have different perceptions of what serves the general good. I believe that it is in the general interest to put an end to these parallel societies, and I also believe that when massive public support is given to housing organisations in order to solve social problems, and then they actually create social problems, then, in addition to serving the general good, we also have a more elevated moral legitimacy when we approach it with the means that are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145104	There's no more sign-in, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145123	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145145	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are discussing here is about the funds committed to the Landsbygningsfonden in the vulnerable residential areas in the coming years. The government played out with a package to begin with, which meant that 12 billion would be needed. kr. in the exposed residential areas, and in addition to that, which is important to remember was another pool • it had to be taken 13 billion. kr. through the so-called grant aid from the Landsbygningsfonden, which would then be transferred to the Treasury. This would have been an undermining of the general sector from the perspective of the Social Democratic Party as a quality alternative to private housing, and I believe that this would have meant in the long term that a lower standard of housing had been achieved and that the tenants had had to pay a higher rent in the individual departments. That is why we have been opposed from the outset to changing the grant aid, which would cost the 13 billion of the tenants' savings. In addition, we were sceptical about 12 billion. kr. was the right place to set aside for the vulnerable residential areas. We're happy with the solution it ended up with. Ten billion will be set aside. kr. for vulnerable residential areas, which year by year is exactly the same amount as has been allocated since 2011. The money goes to extremely important purposes. Half is spent on renovations in the area, where there is a large backlog in many places, one third is spent on rent reductions and housing social interventions, and approx. One eighth is spent on infrastructure in residential areas. It is money which is spent on the tenants and their properties, their homes in the general sector, as originally intended by the Landsbygningsfonden. There has been a discussion about whether to maintain the funds for housing social work. In principle, I and the Social Democratic Party believe that it is a municipal task to make housing social efforts. It is something that needs to be done locally, it is not necessarily the task of the Landsbyfund to allocate money to it. But, on the other hand, we must also recognise that the practice that has developed over recent years is that it is the Landsbygningsfonden that pays for housing social contributions. Therefore, the removal of funds for housing social interventions will mean that in many places you will not be able to afford to continue with the municipalities where you do not have so much money to spend. That is why we have ended up with a solution in this bill, which lowers the framework slightly, so that there is money for renovations and for rent reductions and infrastructure, but thus still retains the majority of funds for housing social interventions. In addition, the total parallel society agreement has found approx. 2 billion kr. over the contract period to finance day-care institutions, schools, job interventions in the vulnerable residential areas. We in the Social Democratic Party also regard this as an important investment by the state on top of the Landsbyfund's own resources. And with those words, I would like to say that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145451	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no sign of short remarks, so we continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145501	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal here is about being able to implement the previous bill on the ghetto package, and if there is to be coherence and realism it is a necessity. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party is nicely sorry about the huge sums, it costs society to get rid of ghettos, and funding is always difficult, as it will always affect something when something is taken from someone and given to others. In the model proposed here, there are some shortcomings that the previous rapporteur, Kaare Dybvad, also mentioned. So here it has some consequences for the housing social effort. However, the Danish People's Party believes that it is to an extent that can be dealt with and that it will not prove to have quite as great consequences as some consultation parties suggest. We must recognise that there is a need for action and the economy to deal with the problems we are experiencing. Hopefully we will succeed, and hopefully we will succeed more quickly than expected, so that we do not continue to spend a lot of tax dollars on inappropriate citizens who crawl together and do not contribute to society. The Danish People's Party endorses the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145607	Thank you to the rapporteur, for whom there are no brief comments either. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145617	Thank you for the floor. This bill must of course be seen in the context of the housing initiatives that were in the previous draft law, which we have just dealt with first. One of the big things in this bill is that 10 billion is being set aside. kr. in the Landsbygningsfonden off for renovation work from 2019 to 2026. And these big physical changes that have to happen in some of these residential areas can help create the attractiveness that makes the housing composition different. The question then is what is to happen. Now, in connection with the previous draft law, we had a long discussion about what is going to happen. This may be both renovation and demolition, but it can also be a very serious question of opening up residential areas to the surrounding community. Then the housing social effort must also be supported with funds from the Landsbygningsfonden, and I think that can contribute to that. So I think with this bill, we are going to come a big step closer to the goal of a Denmark without ghettos by 2030. Then I'm well aware that there are probably some who would say that this is theft from the tenants. I certainly do not agree with that. It is true that the general housing sector actually receives quite a lot of tax money. Already in the case of establishment, there is a municipal contribution, the state guarantees, and there is benefit aid, etc. So I have to say that these are also, to a considerable extent, ordinary social funds. I look forward to contributing to the broad political cooperation of the committee, which I have heard a great deal about, and it is a broad-based legislative proposal that lies here, so I think it will be very constructive. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145814	You're welcome. And there are no brief comments. The next speaker is from the Enhedslisten, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011145824	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the housing movement, which has, of course, been good at explaining that the state still has to grant benefits. It is gratifying that this continues. Otherwise, it would have undermined the resources of the Landsbygningfund. After all, in this draft law, there will be a transfer of 50 million. kr. annually for 6 years in order to renovate housing so that they can be sold. That part is completely opposed to Enhedslisten. In other words, part of the tenants' savings is used to prepare for the privatisation of some general housing. This is not the way we think we should go at all. The processes that have been out there, with renovations of homes, have actually over time been impressive. We arrived at housing, the standard of which has been significantly raised through renovations. We also have housing departments on these lists, among others. in Fredericia, where there are recently renovated dwellings. We have Skovgårdsparken, where most of it has been renovated quite recently. Energy systems have been made more efficient, so they are actually being promoted by having homes that are well insulated and that have a low heating bill. A lot has happened. It is a little disgraceful that a majority has not yet been found politically, which would make the queue to get funding from the Landsbygningsfonden less. There are currently projects of around 11 billion. kr. in line for the Landsbygningsfonden. It is therefore projects which have been through processes in the individual housing organisations and which are, as such, ready to be realised if one gets an acceptance from the Landsbygningsfonden that the Landsbygningfonden will also contribute to the renovation. And this bill isn't gonna end it. Then I am well aware that in the agreement on parallel societies there is such a small phrase that we have to assess the need for renovation and the economy of the Landsbygningfund. And then you arrive at a time in the middle of 2019 when we hopefully have another Minister for Housing and where Enhedslisten looks forward to being involved in discussions. The agreement also states that it may be another agreement which can come to a conclusion on the Landsbygningsfonden's economy and which can come to the conclusion that there must be an increase in the amount of money paid out from the Landsbygningsfonden. We are very much looking forward to this process with a new housing rapporteur, so that we can get into the circle that can lift the amount that the general sector can spend on annual renovations. Then there is another aspect: whether the housing social effort should be permanently financed from the Landsbygningsfonden. And in general terms, that is not fair. There is a local authority in charge of housing, and people who have social problems are then assigned to a certain extent. It ends up with the need for a housing social effort out there, and so it has to be partly financed by the tenants' own savings. I therefore agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that this should actually be a municipal task. And it could be a municipal task with some state cofinancing. So sometimes things are decided about the Landsbygningsfonden, where one has to ask: is that fair? The Enhedslisten has also previously been involved in agreements on how to implement the Landsbygningsfond's funds, which then earmarked something to promote disabled housing. That is a noble purpose, but why is it the collective savings of the tenants that have to go to it alone? So, I think there is good reason to look critically at what the Fund's resources are going to do, also because it has been seen in the past that some people are seeing that there are funds to be drawn up. It is fortunate that the Landsbygningsfonden has no money at the moment, so there is no money to steal. But if you look at it over time, there will be savings at a later stage if you do not increase the renovations from the Landsbygningsfonden. So, overall, we have to go against this bill which will prepare general housing to be sold. So we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150253	There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150258	Thank you. After all, I expected the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to be well prepared. And of course, he's found the hair in the soup, from Enhedslisten's perspective, in this funding, which is about putting these 3 per cent aside. of the total means of preparation for sale. However, if I now have one minute to speak in, I would like to refer to a few important organisations. BL wrote about this deal: We praise the parties for having stood firm and ensured that the tenants have avoided large increases in rent. LLO wrote: The general housing sector was saved. And Christian Høgsbro, chairman of the Landsbygningsfonden, wrote: Thanks to DF and S, for not helping to dismantle the general housing sector. Now that you have such broad consensus and support from all the players with whom Enhedslisten often wants to be good friends with, or at least feel in agreement with, politically, it was just the 3%, it was the 300 million. kr. that made the impact? The Enhedslisten would have voted in favour of this agreement if these 300 million had not been set aside. kr. for preparation for sale?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150411	Well, we would have liked to have made two appointments. After all, a pure agreement could have been reached on the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden, that is to say, what money was to be paid out for. And then you could have had an agreement alongside some other parties who think that you should make something hard on parallel societies against the next parliamentary elections. So there could easily have been two agreements, and then I can see that we could have been part of a housing agreement, but we would not have been involved if we could, like, spend 300 million. kr. to prepare general housing to be sold. Well, there are limits to how many hairs you have to eat from the soup. We would actually like a soup without a camel lying in it at the edge of the plate. So I don't see why we should go on those grounds. That is where I really look forward to another majority, hopefully after the next elections, which will give priority to the general sector. I think that, when we have defined within resident democracy that there are a lot of renovation projects that we would like to carry out, then we should listen to it and then respond to that wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150514	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150515	The last thing I do agree with is that an agreement must be reached on the other side of an election, no matter what the majority may end up being. But when it comes down to it, is it really a show stop? Is it enough to report that there are 3%? of a financing that one disagrees with? The Radical Left is part of the financing agreement, but is not part of the part of the agreement that lies in the Ministry of Transport. But what the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten says is that they 97 per cent. good allocated money, which goes to the tenants, and which ensures that the tenants get good projects, renovations etc., i.e. in Enhedslisten's optics must be stopped because there is 3% that you disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150600	In other words, we have not signed up, but it has to be said that there is not enough money allocated to the normal renovation of the general sector. As far as the 11 billion there are concerned. kr., which is on the waiting list, all the good projects, should of course have reached an agreement which better met the need for the applications to be successful. I do not recognise the premise that there were two agreements on the way forward. There was one deal coming. It is clear that with the content it had to reduce the proportion of general family homes to 40%. As a sacred figure, we could not be involved in what was proposed, and there is also the fact that we are open to the privatisation of public housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150647	The next short remark is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150649	For me, this is the epitome of Enhedslisten, that is, that there is a proposal by a blue government to save hundreds of millions on the Landsbygningsfonden by removing the grant support, and that is then a majority bypassing the government with S, DF, SF and the Radicals who are being thwarted, so that millions are saved to the Landsbygningfonden, which is spent on social stakes that are being spent on the housing social plan overall. Does Enhedslisten even recognise that what is today is significantly better than what the government played out with?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150743	Sure. We fully recognise that it was good that the housing movement moved and helped to ensure that the State should continue to contribute to the grant aid. That is, of course, the most important element. I fully recognise that it is good that we are in that situation. When you look at what is being implemented and compared to spending 300 million. kr. In order to prepare housing for privatisation, can SF not itself hear that this is not the case with SF policy? We sometimes have some discussions about how many conciliations should be involved, but here we did not have a process in which there were, as it were, two parallel tracks. There were all kinds of deals around, and then you end up in something where it's a whole package. It is quite natural that we look at what the overall package is and when there is privatisation in that package, it is not our cup of tea. However, as I said at the beginning, we would very much like to discuss, after an election, what kind of economy it is in relation to the Landsbygningsfonden, what kind of payments are to be made in the future, because there is a need for more funds to be made available to ordinary housing units with a need for renovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150854	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150856	The fact is that because of these parties, not only because of the general housing sector, but also because of them, because they have done a great job that took parliamentary responsibility, benefits have been secured, and there has been a guarantee that there will be money for housing social interventions • interventions that make a huge difference. Then I'll just have to hear, when will that be enough for the Enhedslisten? When could you have been there? 'Cause I just checked that chrome-plated 100-day plan for what Enhedslisten will if they get into government one day, and I don't see the many billions devoted to pumping into the Landsbygningsfond. So if this, which both the renter's LO and BL have praised, isn't enough, when is that enough for Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011150939	Well the Landsbygningsfonden has the right to borrow, so there is no need for Enhedslisten to find money to put into the Landsbygningsfonden. After all, it is just a question of making a political agreement that so much debt must be owed to the Landsbygningsfonden and so much money must be paid out annually. And that is the focus that we consider to be the most important and that we come to the conclusion that there is a proper amount for the ongoing renovation of the general sector. I am a little concerned if we are going towards the idea that the Landsbygningsfond should, like it, be the party that ensures that this is done in the housing social work in the departments. We are sceptical about that. I can see that it is difficult to change it from day to day, but it is a task that should be transferred to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151022	There are no more short remarks, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151032	Thank you. The draft law here must of course be seen in the light of the previous draft law, where this time we are providing the economic conditions for implementing this major conversion programme for the ghetto regions. As I mentioned in my previous speech, it is not really new types of effort that the Landsbygningsfonden finances • have long financed overall plans for the same purpose. One can say that the new thing is that we now target a great deal of money for really big problems, and we think that is very sensible, because how often do we stand here and discuss that there are many intentions, but then the money does not follow? This is where the money really comes with it. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151126	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151133	Thank you. In the alternative, we have a discussion on this bill. Now I try to go through it as I understand it, and then I want to be corrected if I understand it wrong. The bill implements the agreement between the Government, DF, S, RV and SF on the financing of interventions to prevent and break down parallel communities and on the Landsbygningsfonden framework for physical change in the vulnerable residential areas in the period 2019-2026. As a previous rapporteur said, this should be seen in the context of L 38, whose criteria for reducing the proportion of general family housing in hard ghetto areas to a maximum of 40%. is subject to the condition that general housing organisations may receive support for renovation, demolition and infrastructure changes. The bill provides a financial framework for the Landsbygningsfonden's funds and continues the Landsbygningsfonden's reimbursement of state expenditure on grants of 25%. In practice, this means that the changes proposed in L 38 are financed from the Landsbygningsfonden funds, which means that the government's proposals from 2018 • One Denmark without parallel communities • No ghettos in 2030 • are financed by funds, approx. 10 billion kr., from the Landsbygningsfonden, if my understanding is correct. Then we discuss the challenge of that we have to see it in the light of L 206, which we dealt with last year or in the last session • there is about government-funded loans that we think is a good idea. But there is also a differential rate calculation which does not belong to the Landsbygningsfonden, although the Landsbygningsfonden bears most of the risk of the loans and all the other risks that are about to have a general sector. Nevertheless, the State chooses to take the money which should be allocated to the Landsbygningsfonden, which is built exclusively on payments from the one million citizens living in general housing. We find that problematic, and we see this bill in the light of that. Then, of course, we also share the concerns with the Enhedslisten. I don't know if 300 million is a hair in the soup it can fund a lot. I don't know if we can call it a hair in the soup. I have to be smarter, because we also lack answers to some questions about the construction of the Landsbygningsfonden, which we believe is going to threaten funding in the Landsbygningsfonden, especially with IS35 loans. There are a great many housing organisations that need renovation and that have a challenge in relation to the grant aid, and despite the questions we have put to responsible ministers about the revenue of the Treasury and the cost of providing benefits for general housing, we have not received adequate answers. I wonder if it is because the State has in fact a significant income in the form of negative aid. We also need answers to that before we can say yes or no to this bill. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151441	The rapporteur must just stand still, because there is one with a brief comment. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151446	The rapporteur speaks of aid for the provision of services, but the amount of aid granted has not changed here; no change has been made to the amount of aid granted. The bill on government-funded loans in a general housing sector has little to do with this either. Of course, I can see how funny it is to say that 300 million is a hair in the soup, but you can also say that 3%. is what makes you don't want to be in a deal. You disagree with 3%. of the agreement. I would really like to hear the alternative, as well as with the positive hat on making it forward-looking about what it took to make the alternative part of this agreement. And this is not about the bill we were discussing just now, but about the bill we have here and only about the 10 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151539	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Kaare Dybvad that I do not find it amusing to stand and say whether a hair is fun or not, for 300 million. kr. is a lot of money. The aim is for citizens in the general housing sector to pay for legislation that can leave them without a roof over their heads. An element of legislation that means that 300 million will be taken. kr., which will leave them without a roof over their heads, is not fair. I'm sorry if it sounds like I'm gonna make fun of 300 million. kr., 3%. And hair in the soup, because I don't want to, because I actually take it very seriously. With regard to what is to be included in the agreement, we need to be clear about the whole economy of the Landsbygningsfond, and we think it is a matter of how we are going to finance with state-aided loans in the future. So I recognise the SF, which speaks that the agreement is better and that more has happened than what was in the government's proposal, and that is also why we cannot say either to or from now on. But we need to have some answers to the questions to which we do not think we have been given an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151642	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151644	Can I then ask the rapporteur something? How does the rapporteur think that the benefits in the general housing sector have anything to do with this bill? I cannot read it, but the rapporteur said it. Then we can pack the 300 million. kr. back and forth, and peace with it, but what does the grant have to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151708	It is the very construction of the Landsbygningsfonden forward-looking. This bill is about the parties behind the bill taking 10 billion. kr. of the Landsbygningsfonden and allocates them for some purposes, but we believe that basically there is also a challenge to the way in which the Landsbygningsfonden works, and that plays a part when there is 11 billion. kr. in line on renovations and 10 billion. kr. that is reserved to expropriate, or whatever we should call it, in relation to the parallel society package. So we believe that it is important that it is a comprehensive picture of how the Landsbygningsfonden operates and how their economy is in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151752	There is one more question, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151757	That was in itself just the last remark made by the rapporteur. The alternative rapporteur says that there are generally some problems with the functioning of the Landsbygningsfonden. I believe that housing organizations would like to know what the alternative is in relation to it. What kind of problems are there? What's going to change? I'm curious, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151819	But that was one of the points I mentioned in relation to the questions we have put about revenue and expenditure in relation to the grant aid. As I read it and understand the economy, there is a significant income in the form of negative performance support, and this is especially about these IS35 loans. I think it's in the vicinity of housing for 65 billion. kr. financed with these IS35 loans. This could threaten the sustainability of these housing organisations in the future because they can't afford to renovate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151859	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151900	Just for the sake of such a good order, I would like to say to the matter of tearing down so that there is no roof over your head: I hope the rapporteur agrees that the agreements state that a different home must be offered. That was one part. And I wonder whether the rapporteur has any idea of how much of the Fund's resources have so far been spent on housing social measures similar to those for which funds have now been allocated here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011151923	To the end, I don't have an answer on my feet. First of all, that responsibility is also being pushed forward to the municipalities, in relation to where those homes are to be found. But the question is, how do we prevent these dwellings from falling within the criteria which then make it necessary to reduce the housing stock here too? And is it just a spiral that's going to continue? This is the worst case scenario that we have to think through when we make legislation. We can say that we trust that people are making wise decisions out there, but what we are doing is a wise decision, that is to say to give it leeway, that you can actually expropriate to the extent that it can happen now at 60%. By the family homes that can be demolished if they fall under these criteria for four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152012	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152019	Thank you. After all, we have done too little for the vulnerable residential areas, and children growing up in vulnerable residential areas are notoriously less well-being and learn less at school and are more likely to end up in unemployment and more likely to end up in crime. Today, we are taking a step towards finding the funding to carry out the overall plans that are being made in some of the vulnerable residential areas for radical renovations. So Vollsmose alone needs 1 billion. kr. on a thorough renovation of its internal infrastructure. In addition, we find money for housing social bets and a demolition pool. We support this radically. We support the bill. This does not mean, however, that we take ownership of exhibiting the exposed residential areas as ghettos. It is still not the language we are putting down on it, but to provide funding for these major and important efforts we would like to put our backs on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152124	Thank you. When the agreement on the prevention of parallel societies was to be negotiated, maintaining a strong and capable Landsbygningsfond was an absolutely essential and indispensable requirement of the SF. The Landsbygningfonden has the financial responsibility to maintain and develop the framework for Denmark's rental homes, and in that responsibility lies a vital renovation task for some of the residential areas that have the greatest need for continuous maintenance. Therefore, the SF is also very pleased that it succeeded in ensuring the survival and continuous financing of the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden). At the same time, the renovation framework increases what is very much needed if the other provisions of the agreement on parallel societies are to be implemented. In contrast to the government's original proposal, the proposal retains full funding for the grant aid and at the same time maintains the housing social effort that was supposed to be the government's chance to scissor. SF is pleased that BL and the Landsbygningfonden themselves sign for it and therefore support the proposal. But it is not without concern. SF has taken note of BL's hearing that there is a lack of a framework for investment in accessibility. Accessibility is crucial for the many elderly and disabled citizens using housing under the Landsbygningsfondens Resort, which is why we will also see in the SF in the committee work whether we can expect the need for accessibility in the new framework for the Landsbygningsfonden. That is what we expect from the committee. At the same time, the SF is ready, if the necessary majority is present, to ensure an even stronger housing social effort than that proposed here. On the one hand, we welcome the fact that the idea of dropping the effort has been completely scrapped, but at the same time believe that if the government wants to achieve its objectives of combating crime and insecurity in the areas, more housing social measures are needed than those that this proposal alone can bear. With the concerns expressed, SF can support the proposal as it ensures a sustainable Landsbygningsfond that can fulfil the future tasks of the agreement on parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152349	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152358	Thank you. The proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, is to allocate funds to transform residential areas, which is part of the agreement we have made on combating parallel societies. And, of course, this must be seen in the context of the debate we have just had about some of the concrete initiatives that we must now have implemented. It is about preventing parallel societies, extremism and crime and improving the opportunities for socially vulnerable people in some residential areas. With the bill, we are allocating considerable resources to implement the extensive physical changes we want in these residential areas. For example, 5 billion are allocated and targeted. kr. in the years 2021 to 2026 to carry out renovation and improvement interventions in vulnerable residential areas. In addition, a number of other frameworks, which are not insignificant, are set out to support the initiatives and things that need to be done in the context of overall plans to be drawn up, also in accordance with our agreement. Of course we support this in the Conservative People's Party, because of course we will not accept that there are areas in Denmark, hard ghetto areas where it is not Danish standards or values that prevail. We have to do that. And experience from abroad shows that physical changes in vulnerable residential areas are what work, and that is why we also believe that it justifies that we are now investing massively in creating the necessary physical framework and the necessary physical changes, so that we can say by 2030 that Denmark is completely free of ghetto areas. So we're backing the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152552	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive reception of the bill. The bill is the implementation of the government's agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party on the financing of interventions to prevent and break down parallel societies and the framework of the Landsbygningsfonden for physical changes to the vulnerable residential areas etc. for the period 2019-2026. The bill must be seen in the context of the bill on new housing initiatives in order to counteract the formation of parallel societies. A total of 10 billion will be allocated. kr. in the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden) in the period 2019-2026 to make radical physical changes to the affected residential areas as well as to finance a housing social effort. Overall, the bill ensures that substantial funds are allocated in the Landsbygningsfonden to make significant physical changes to the vulnerable residential areas. Thus, the bill supports the objective of not having ghetto areas by 2030. Physical interventions must be accompanied by a housing social effort in the areas at risk, a housing social effort which can prevent extremism and crime and support positive social development in the areas at risk. Let me briefly outline the framework for the individual areas of the legislative proposal. Firstly, we are setting up an investment framework of a total of 5 billion. kr. in the years 2021-2026 to carry out renovation and improvement interventions in vulnerable residential areas. Secondly, priority is given to infrastructure efforts in vulnerable residential areas in order to ensure that isolation can be broken. Thirdly, a framework is provided for housing social interventions and rent subsidies. In doing so, we continue to focus on housing social efforts. Fourthly, the demolition of general housing is an important tool in the physical effort to radically transform vulnerable residential areas. That is why a framework is set aside for demolitions. The proposal provides for the necessary funds in the Landsbygningsfonden for a comprehensive transformation of the vulnerable residential areas in Denmark. Let me make it clear that the legislative proposal focuses on ensuring the financing of precisely those initiatives designed to counteract the formation of parallel societies in vulnerable residential areas. This does not mean that we do not also focus on funding renovation efforts widely in the general housing sector. We have a number of general housing around the country, which is located in areas that are not exposed but need to be renovated. They must of course also be renovated with the support of the Landsbygningsfonden. There is a need for us to have a better basis for assessing the need for the renovation of the general sector, and that is why it is part of the political agreement that an analysis of renovation needs is being carried out in the general sector. The objective of the analysis is to determine the need for supported and unsupported renovations. It is intended that the analysis should form the basis for future priorities of the funds in the Landsbygningsfond for renovation and demolition. It has already been agreed that the parties to the agreement will meet at the end of the analyses and agree on a framework for the renovation and demolition of general housing for the period 2021-2026. I would like to conclude by thanking you once again for the positive comments. I look forward to a committee hearing in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152924	Thank you, Minister. There's no more sign-in on the screen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011152943	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153004	Thank you for that, President. L 35 aims to ensure that targeted high school provision can be established for the increasing number of seniors who will be in the coming years. This is basically sympathetic, for a high school stay is for many a unique and good opportunity to experience and become wiser together with others. This applies to people of all ages, both young and old. At the same time, it is clear that in the coming years we will see that an increasing proportion of the population is active and outgoing seniors. This is a development that should be welcomed and taken into account. Several active seniors with good health and courage on experiences are a good thing for a society. We must, of course, take into account the fact that we can also honour the many wishes of the group. In relation to the proposal, the aim is precisely to support this development. Today the high schools are doing an important and good job for the many seniors who want to participate in the offers of the high schools across the country. At the same time, it makes good sense to look at how we further support the seniors' opportunity for, for example, a high school stay. In concrete terms, it is proposed that in future new senior high schools may be set up, offering only shorter courses and thus exempt from the requirement to carry out long-term courses of at least 20 weeks' duration. At the same time, the draft law provides that the number of senior high schools does not exceed a total of five at national level. Today, we have two high schools which, on the basis of previous exemptions, run senior high school, and with the bill it is proposed that they can continue with it. This will enable three further senior colleges to be established in the future. This ensures a good balance so that more high school offers can be targeted to seniors, while at the same time maintaining that basically it is so that the high schools in general can appeal widely to the audience and can also be grounded widely in the country. We in the Social Democratic Party would like to praise this bill and say that we support it at all ends and ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153258	Thank you, President. The draft law we are discussing today is a proposal that will benefit many people. In the coming years, there will be more and more seniors and pensioners, and they will all need experiences and opportunities to meet with others in rewarding association. Older people need the close contact with others, and they can achieve this by taking a course or stay at a senior high school, but not all have time to take the longer courses they have had so far, and therefore many demand shorter courses and shorter stays. As I myself am in the seniors group, it is therefore a pleasure for me to commend this proposal, which allows for the approval of up to five high schools to organise shorter courses and not, as in the past, where only high schools organized the longer-term courses for seniors that were eligible. We in the Danish People's Party are thus to give colleges the opportunity to arrange courses of shorter duration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153412	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153421	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that we are dealing with this bill today, as it is crucial that we ensure the right framework for the growing number of seniors we have in Denmark. There are some figures that indicate that there will be up to 250,000 more seniors in the years to come, and of course many would like to take advantage of the offers made in high schools, but not necessarily always on the long courses. On the other hand, there is interest in the short courses of the high schools, which form an increasing part of the activity of the high schools. The proposal here is that a total of five high schools, including the two existing senior colleges Marielyst and Nørre Nissum, may fail to offer long courses, and I think this is positive in relation to the high school idea and of course also in relation to the other high schools, which in fact also have the opportunity to apply to be approved as senior high schools themselves. I myself am on the board of the Marielyst high school, and of course we have talked about whether this will lead to too much supply, but I am sure that the increasing demand from the growing number of seniors makes this the right decision. Of course, there may also be students at senior high schools who had gone to an ordinary high school, but that is the way it is with competition. It is a good thing that there is competition, so that it is the schools that offer the best courses that can be applied to. Now I have not been involved in the negotiations for this bill myself, but I understand that some of the pieces that were not all agreed on have also been tampered with, and I think that is a positive thing. That is why the Left supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153609	Thank you for that, and I have noted that the Conservatives have now also spoken for it. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011153619	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the draft of the present bill triggered a violent criticism during the consultation phase from broad circles. That is what the criticism was that it would reduce the possibility of high school stays for people with disabilities. Nevertheless, I believe that the progress so far suggests that we can make the discussion today relatively brief. After all, the Minister has withdrawn that part from the final version, as the Minister announced in an e-mail to the rapporteurs on 12 September 2018. It also emerged from that e-mail that the Minister felt misunderstood and that it was not the Minister's intention to reduce the situation of people with disabilities in relation to attendance at high schools. For my part, I would just like to say that I think it was very sensible of the Minister to drop the part of the proposal which rightly or wrongly triggered the many protests. Then, as has been mentioned, the authority to increase the number of high schools to five, which can be exempted from the folk high school law and offer only short courses aimed at high school provision for seniors, remains. I think we can discuss whether the proposal is really comprehensive enough, partly because the number of seniors is rising dramatically in these years and relatively short courses are probably better suited to the target group than long courses, where for months one must be away from the heart of the home, the houseplants and perhaps not least the grandchildren, partly because it is also a question of whether not such short courses, shorter high school courses, will be attractive to other groups of the population than seniors, especially when one considers how the life one lives is more and more fragmented and where it is possible to devote 20 weeks may be more difficult than a relatively shorter stay. A little is also right and we can support the Minister's proposal, but we will, of course, reserve the right to return to the other at a later stage. However, it is also crucial for Enhedslisten that we retain the core of being at a folk high school, having a folk high school stay, and that means that there are limits to how short such a stay should be in our view. For part of it is also about living together and having some experience together and taking time for things to develop. There is also something about the framework that the high school is, and the fact that principals and teachers have a close connection with the high school and do not have it as a job where they drive home at 2 o'clock. 4:00 p.m. There I just received an e-mail today. It may also have been the case that raised the question of the residence of teachers and, in particular, the headmaster's residence in high schools, where the observations of the law at least show that it is like an assumption that very few people do. It doesn't, says the minister. We can then clarify that, but studies have just shown it, and that was at least one thing that we could discuss at some point in the discussion that we are liberalising and opening up to the length of courses, so that we also have a discussion about how we at the same time ensure and preserve what is at the heart of being in folk high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154015	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154025	Thank you. With the age one gradually sneaks up on, such an issue is of interest to the more and more people. It is clear, and that is why I am of course very sympathetic to the fact that the Minister of Culture takes into account those of us who are of the age that we can continue to have substantial content in life over time. In addition to that, I would like to say that Højskoledanmark is an important cultural bearer. It is therefore a good thing that the organisation of the legislation we have with high schools also takes into account the fact that there are more and more older people who are active and who could benefit particularly from being in high school and experiencing that community etc., and that by doing so, we have to say, we are buying long and short courses and that we are doing so in free competition. You can offer it whenever you want, and thus put a good content into such a high school stay. So we think it is timely care on the part of the Minister for Culture and can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154127	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154137	Thank you. I stand for Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier on this proposal for a law amending the law on folk high schools. This bill proposes that the Minister for Culture be given the opportunity to approve new high schools which are allowed to derogate from the requirement that a folk high school should offer long courses in order to qualify for funding. The aim is to create new senior high schools for the benefit of our older fellow citizens who can make high school offers aimed at seniors without being obliged to offer long courses. Of course, we welcome this in the alternative. We are very fond of high schools and we are also pleased with our older fellow citizens, so we would like to acknowledge the good intentions and, of course, vote in favour. I will not fail to mention, as several others have also done, that we are pleased that the Minister has chosen to omit the elements of the original draft law which were about abolishing the current possibility of individually applied for special educational support and replacing it with a general offer, as well as reducing the hourly rate of special education, and that aid for AT should be withdrawn. After all, it is abundantly clear from the hearings that there has been a great deal of opposition to it in the original draft law. That is why it is very good that the Minister is listening and it is an exemplary example of how democracy works when the consultation answers are actually recognised to that extent. So thank you for that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154303	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154311	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge to the Minister that the draft law has been tabled and that there are requests for the senior high schools we are discussing here in connection with L 35. It is quite certain that there is an increase in the number of pensioners in Denmark and that there is an awareness of public education and being together on themes that you are interested in, the community in such a group who join a senior high school or to an ordinary high school's short summer courses or short courses during the year. There is a lot of variation in the picture of how the high schools organize themselves and what they get off with. Rødding Højskole I use as a positive example, which I would like to acknowledge, and they had quite considerable financial problems a number of years ago. They then did a series of short courses throughout the year, and it raised the level of activity of the high school very high, and it was often retired people who attended the short courses. So it wasn't a senior high school, but it was an ordinary high school. It's just to nuance the picture of the high school world by saying that it has both long and short courses. The Danish Parliament, with its skill, has sometimes created incentives that make it impossible to live off the short courses in the ordinary high schools, which must primarily have long courses. I think that is fair, and therefore you can have short courses during the summer, and many high schools do. It is just to mention that there are several different types of opportunities where you also have a great many pensioners, but in the summer courses of ordinary high schools there is also the possibility of having some if you make it attractive for young people to participate. That variation is actually quite profitable for all groups. It was just to nuance the picture of the high school world here in the Folketing and thus also sign for the proposal we are considering. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154518	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154528	The folk high schools in Denmark are extremely important. For many years they have helped strengthen the democratic conversation, make Danes more enlightened, create exciting activities that bind us all together, and probably also in reality open our minds and make us all a little more diverse. Therefore, it is also a goal of SF to strengthen the folk high schools and ensure that they also have a strong role in future Denmark. This proposal, which has been around a bit, or what you say, because it has been changed a little along the way, has ended in a way that we think is good. It intends to strengthen the possibility of senior high schools. As the proposal says, over the next 10 years we will have 250,000 more seniors. It's not just sir. Leif Mikkelsen, who will be senior soon if he isn't already, so are many others, and Mr. Leif Mikkelsen must have a lot of good activities to do, and many others need to do that throughout Denmark, and therefore such a senior high school is a very good offer and something really good for seniors to take care of. One of the things I can be a little worried about when I look at many of the seniors who come is the increasing loneliness that fills among them, that you are not seen across, and that you are isolated at home. I'm not so afraid of that, sir. Leif Mikkelsen will stay, but I do believe that we have a common obligation here in the Folketing to ensure that seniors have better opportunities to meet across and be active in the future too. I think that, after reading both the consultation and the legislative proposals, this proposal will contribute to this, because it both preserves the senior high schools that are, but also allows for a little more. So it can SF support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154721	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs on the list of speakers, so I give the floor to the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154737	Thank you for that and thank you for the many good comments. I do not need to repeat what several of the rapporteurs have said, namely that there will be an increasing number of older people, and we would like to make offers that can enrich life as a senior too. It is a very good thing, as several speakers have also said, that we already have many of the short courses as offers to the traditional high schools, but this opportunity to set up three senior colleges in addition to the two that we already have, in other words five in total, would like to make the supply even better. So for me, it's not a either-or, it's a boat-and-and, and we come up with a need. There have just been a few comments on the part of the draft law that has been taken out, and it is true that it was the consultation answers that made me take out the part relating to offers for disabled people's stay in high schools. That's right, as I think it was Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard of Enhedslisten who remarked that it has been misunderstood, because I have a very strong wish with the rest of the government that disabled people should have the opportunity to go to college. The current system is very bureaucratic, which is why I have spoken with both the High School Association, but also with some of the high schools which have a number of disabled people, that we must try to look at how the current system is being managed and, at the same time, we are conducting a study on how the grant is being managed today, because some of the consultation responses could actually indicate that they are not being used entirely as intended. So we're gonna do a review of that, and maybe we're gonna go back to the question. However, thank you for your support, for your unanimous support for our tabling this proposal, and, of course, if further questions should arise during the committee procedure, I am available.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011154935	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155020	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155030	Thank you. Now I was one of them. in the friendly mood of the previous bill. I can say it's gonna be a little different with this bill. The legislative proposals that we are working together with today translate the two agreements that form the basis of the narrow media settlement that the government and the Danish People's Party entered into before the summer holidays. Compared to the media agreement we are discussing today's first part of, the Social Democratic Party had prepared for us to find answers to the increasing pressure on the Danish media that major global players such as Facebook, Amazon and several others put on Danish-language news dissemination and public service activities. After our analysis, it would be crucial for Danish news dissemination and public service that we strengthened it and secured that place in the global structure. We had the approach of tradition to conclude a broad agreement with the Danish Parliament's parties on media agreements as a guarantor of the Danish cultural basis in media and news dissemination. It was with deep regret that we had to note that these interests divided the government and the Danish People's Party not to be spared. It was established and locked in an economic agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party even before negotiations on the media agreement had begun. There was to be a focus on Denmark's Radio, and we realized that the focus is on Denmark's Radio saving 900 million. kr. on the public service, massive savings that mean less Danish content, well notice in order to be able to provide tax relief. In our opinion, this is a skewed priority at a time when the Danes are being flooded with foreign content and platforms, and when the ad crowns on the Danish market are increasingly being served by foreign players, and where fake news is something we must take very seriously in relation to democratic formation. At such a time, we need to stick to what we share, and this is especially true of our public service. This means that we have good and credible Danish media content, which all Danes have free and equal access to, and that we have strong media with public service content, which appeals widely to the Danes, and which helps to strengthen Danish language and culture. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party have chosen to go in the opposite direction with significant cuts in the size of 900-million crowns, a major deterioration in supply to the Danes and less Danish content. In addition to tax cuts, media conciliation instead increases the space for private commercial media, as well as allowing for advertising and user charges on public service media, for which the Danes are already paying. It is an ideological battle with the Danish media model, which for decades has helped finance good Danish media content, all of which have had free and equal access to. With the media conciliation, as I said, the public service is cut by 900 million overall. kr. It is a significant cut-off that means less Danish content, and the consequences are already so small now: fewer radio and television channels, fewer news, less sport, less width. The Danes are faced with a weakened media supply, and at the same time it should be stressed that there is yet another saving round in Danmarks Radio for 2022 and 2023. For social democracy, it is essential that we stick to what we share. Good Danish public service is needed. We must not weaken it, and that is why we do not support the media reconciliation of the government, and we do not support the two legislative proposals. After all, the two legislative proposals translate parts of the agreement on which this is based, respectively agreement on the focus of Denmark's Radio and the abolition of the media licence, and the agreement on media conciliation. Admittedly, the changes proposed by the conciliation show very well why, overall, the media agreement is moving in the wrong direction. In principle, in relation to the focus on Denmark's Radio and the abolition of the media licence, the Social Democratic Party could support the conversion of the funding of the public service from a licence fee to a tax financing, but the way it is done is quite wrong, because it is used first of all to make a massive cut on the public service part. Secondly, a number of changes are being made which highlight precisely how media conciliation is moving in the wrong direction by weakening our common media. The media settlement means that the Danes can look forward to more user charges and advertisements in connection with content they have already helped finance from the tax. Both the new radio channel and the TV channel will be able to base themselves on advertising revenue, and FM 4 will be re-bid with the possibility of making user charges on podcast, and there may also be advertisements here. It is a great deterioration when the Danes have now paid for the content through the tax. At a time when there is a need for good Danish content and strong media that strengthens our culture, language and community, it is quite wrong to make historical cuts to public service and thus give the Danes a lower media supply. Overall, therefore, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155716	There are, for the time being, two brief comments, and the first one is Mr Beazley's report. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155723	Thank you. The open question is, of course, what social democracy will do after an election if it acquires power as it has heeded. But my question is simple: will the Social Democrats roll back the savings on DR and then bring the millions into Denmark's Radio? Where will they find the money, and will they re-licens? These are at least some open questions which the Social Democrats have not been able to answer in the past, so I hope, of course, that the rapporteur will be able to inform us in this Chamber. Will the Social Democrats roll back the savings, put the money into Denmark's Radio, and where will they find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155808	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen himself provides the answer to the rhetorical question. Well, it's just that, uh... Alex Ahrendtsen does not leave a bag of money as it is possible to roll back. The money that you go out and save now is taken away, and thus they are not available for a roll-back exercise. So it's not an option to talk about a rollback exercise. I can only say that we are not bound by the conciliation that has been made and we will make great efforts to do something better. And in which direction it is going to go yes, it will be more Danish content, better strengthening of the Danish profile in the media field. But this is obviously not a direction that the Danish People's Party can support, since they have helped to remove 900 million. kr. from the Danish language public service.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155902	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155904	The rapporteur does not answer the question. Will the Social Democratic Party find the money that has been saved on Denmark's Radio and put it back? And where will you find the money? I am simply asking for an honest answer and not for social democratic extravagance. It must be simple to answer it. For months we have been trying to get answers from the Social Democratic Party to that. So: Will the Social Democracy, if they win the government, find the money and put it back on Denmark's Radio? It must be very simple to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011155940	Yes, it would be very simple to answer if the conciliation parties would leave the 900 million. kr. stand on an account that was ready to be used on good Danish media content. Then it would be quite simple to roll the film back. But that's not possible. After all, a future other government will take over the box that is available and will have to give priority to every 25-ear that needs to be spent. And then Dansk Folkeparti has contributed to this, so that the exact production of Danish media content is impaired. We think this is a pity, and we think it actually deserves more than an indulgent smile.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160018	The next thing for a brief comment is Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160022	Thank you. I hear loud and clear from Mr. Orla Hav, that if the Social Democracy comes to power, there must be more Danish content. More Danish content costs money. So when Mr. Orla Hav stands and says that the Social Democratic Party wants more Danish content, Mr. Orla had also been able to indicate where that money should come from. And no, they're not on an account, but then you can use the room, you've done so many times before, or another account, or put up some charges. If sir... Orla Hav believes that there should be more Danish content than what remains with this agreement, so I would very much like to hear where the money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160104	But I can only repeat what I have said. If the parties to the conciliation would have left a bag of money, we would have liked to help use it for what it is being used for today, namely proper Danish public service, at a time when the Danish language's public service is under heavy pressure and when the ad crowns are running out of the Danish media because they go to the big players on the digital stage. So this is a teasing issue that both the Danish People's Party and the Left are out in. We are going to give tough priority to how we are able to meet a better Danish public service offer than what is here, and we actually believe that it can be linked together. But I do not currently have a recipe, as I do not know the outcome of the Finance Act, which will probably also be concluded between the Danish People's Party and the government, and which will probably draw further on the scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160205	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. No, I think Britt needs another comment. ) Okay, that's the second round for Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160213	Thank you. That is a clear answer from Mr. Orla Sea. Then it is just another empty promise, an empty and unfunded promise; we want more Danish content; we do not have the money for it. That's what's left of this. Then, in return, I am delighted that Mr. Orla Hav is concerned that the ad crowns of private players are going abroad, they are going to Facebook and to Google. It's just a little out of line with that, sir. Orla Hav said in her speech that this government chooses to strengthen the private players. Yes, we do, and we do so with our eyes open. And if sir... Orla Hav is so deeply concerned that the ad crowns are going out of the country, what is the reason why Mr. Orla Hav finds it worrying that we are strengthening the private media?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160300	My concern is, in fact, with the many statements that I get from a great many Danes who say that they are so tired of advertising-funded programme surfaces, so that every second we have to see an advertisement across a film that we are watching. That's what we're gonna get more of with this. That is why there is an hour's warm-up for any sporting event. That's because you have to have room to bring a lot of ads. That's what this settlement is gonna open up to far more of. And then I can only regret that the conciliation parties did not want to make an effort to try to turn the ad crowns that go out of the country into Facebook and other players, thus depriving Danish daily newspapers and others who could have had the ads that were there. But you didn't want to do that in this settlement. There it has been pushed away and said that it is not something we want to deal with. We had constructive proposals for this, but we could not accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160403	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160405	I would be delighted if Mr. Orla Hav, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, said so clearly that we were not bound by this conciliation and that we would not be bound by the decisions that will be made here shortly, because that means that the track is free, and that means that negotiations have been put in place to roll back a series, perhaps most, of deteriorations. - Sir... Orla Hav confirms that there are a number of things in this conciliation that will make it possible to improve some opportunities, for example, very quickly. Denmark's Radio in relation to the severe cuts that have been, without it having to cost a penny? Well, I'm thinking, for example. on the question of giving Denmark's Radio the right to apply for the public service pool in line with everyone else, in the sense that if Denmark's Radio has a good project, you can apply for the public service pool in line with others who have good projects. It will be possible to achieve this within five minutes, it would not cost a penny, but it would make sure that we got the best out of taxpayers' money instead of just that which ideologically at present. Looks like a majority in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160524	But I can rest assured that we will always see the social democracy in the negotiating room in order to find good solutions for something that we think is moving in the wrong direction. The media agreement that has been concluded here is moving in the wrong direction, it gives us less content in the Danish language, and it gives us less opportunity to deal with the fake news world that surrounds us. We are, of course, prepared to go for the low-hanging fruits, we are pragmatic in this context, and if we can improve the public service of the Danish language, we would like to do so, and if we can do so without burdening both the Finance Act and other boxes, we are fully in favour of it. I'm on the same lines as sir. Søren Søndergaard, when it is said that for some reason a lot of stumble threads have been set out to prevent Denmark's Radio from making the good public service solution that has been made for many years. It is a weakening of Danish-language public service production.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160638	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160640	Well, I understand that sir. Orla Sea cannot give the recipe for how a media settlement should look in a year's time. Well, it's obvious that you can't give it. After two and a half years, the present media settlement must be re-evaluated by the conciliation parties, things are moving quickly, so that must of course be up to the specific situation we are facing. But I think that Mr. Orla Sea may well be a little clearer in terms of giving a commitment that some of the first thing we are doing is that Denmark's Radio cannot be allowed to search the public service pool in line with everyone else, so that we can be sure that taxpayers' money is spent on the best projects and not on the projects that a previous government ideologically wanted to promote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160731	Well, that's what I was trying to make clear by saying that we're going for the low-hanging fruits, including the access to searching the public service pool is a possible approach. Otherwise, it must be based on the negotiations that can be conducted by the majority that had to crystallise after an election. But it is clear that it is the voters who decide what the Folketing looks like, and we must respect that. Therefore, we cannot make future financial laws, nor can we have future financial laws in connection with a rapporteur's speech at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160806	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160808	Thank you. The Socialists did not give up too easily and too quickly in relation to being part of the media agreement? If the media agreement had been entered into, some concessions would have been made in relation to the public service and it would have been possible to influence the public service contract with DR, because there would have been more influence. Didn't they give up too quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160834-2	I do not think that is the situation. I myself had the opportunity to attend quite a number of meetings on the media agreement. What became increasingly clear was that we could not move the line that was laid, an inch. A plan had been drawn up to save 900 million. kr. in the Danish language public service production, and we actually thought that was in the wrong direction. So at some point, when we had to acknowledge that it was not possible to change that decision or find other creative ways to ensure the Danish language's public service production, we had to say that this did not move in our direction. We think that the fact that we are at a disadvantage in dealing with fake news and all the other things that are in the global media picture is in a worse direction. We do not think this agreement is good enough to deal with it. That's why we're gonna have to call in the house.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160935	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011160937	Well, it is true that the decision on the savings had been made, but much more could have been affected in relation to the content, not least the public service contract. Would the rapporteur not agree with me? We could have helped influence the formulation of the public service contract, which is also important for DR, by being part of the media agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161001	Well, I can just say to sir. Naser Khader, that we tried to hold on to the edge of the table with the edge of our nails, but when it even got there that Denmark's Radio could not even be allowed to search on an equal footing with everyone else, we had to acknowledge that a roadmap had been drawn up so that it is more a dispute with Denmark's Radio and with what Denmark's Radio traditionally stands for, namely a sensible production of Danish public service, which enables the population to keep up with democratic life, which is the basis of Danish popular rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161041	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161043	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. After all, we agree on many things, and in this matter we also agree to disagree. What actually led me to take the floor was the rapporteur's remark that these were to be teasing issues, such as Mr Tugendhat's report. Mr Ahrendtsen and Mrs Britt Baker asked whether the savings would be rolled back. I do not think that it is, because the rapporteur's colleagues over in the red block have clearly stated that they want to roll back the savings, and there are also opportunities to turn the tax screw again and then withdraw the tax cuts that we have put the Danes in view of some of the amount. It is not the case that all the money that has to be saved on Danmarks Radio goes to the tax reliefs and some of the money goes to other public service measures. I just ask: why not just go out clearly and say that the Social Democrats do not want to screw that tax screw again? So this is not a teasing question. We just lack a clear
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161142	Well, sir. Morten Marinus knows just as well as I do that the responsibility with which social democracy always goes to possible government negotiations is based on the fact that we have a high degree of responsibility for the economy that is in society. After all, some tracks have been made, and we can't just break them up right away and say that now we're running on some other tracks. We have to accept the economy of Danish public service production, as Mr. Morten Marinus' party has made. I do not understand why it should be in the interest of the Danish People's Party to weaken Danish public service production. I simply do not understand that, but the Danish People's Party must be in favour of this. However, we have respect for the electorate who must put together the future Parliament, we have respect for the economy that is in society as a whole, and we have respect for the priority task of bringing together an economy for a future government, which we hope will have a decisive influence on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161249	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161250	I shall start by apologising for not having noticed that my question is, of course, about what would happen if the Social Democratic Party were to have the power of government after the next elections. We do not know that at this stage. Sir. Orla Hav also said that in the negotiations it was not possible for the Social Democratic Party to push anything at all in relation to these savings. That is not my view. I know that neither Mr. Orla Hav or the undersigned were at negotiations other than in the Ministry of Culture, but it is my impression that the Social Democratic Party actually received an offer in the Ministry of Finance about a little more money for public service, although not for Denmark's Radio, but for the total public service in Denmark. Wouldn't it have been better for the Social Democracy to have gone along, and then, from your point of view, had a little better result than what we deliver and what you now say is so bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161339	I wasn't in the Treasury. As far as I remember, it was down to a tenth of the amount that Dansk Folkeparti is now moving away from the public service production, and we did not really think that was attractive, because then everything else should just eat the rest of the package. And we tried to influence the content of the media settlement for a very long time, but it just couldn't be done even with regard to the fact that Danmarks Radio could be allowed to seek the public service pool on an equal footing with other players. It is invented as, yes, a punishment against Denmark's Radio for some reason. It's not our way of running public service activities. It's having some clarified ground rules about our public service with a broad foundation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161434	Sir. Orla Hav says the Social Democrats got stuck on the edge of the table. I guess I thought you were pretty quick out the door. But now we have heard the Social Democrats thunder against this. Ever since the agreement was concluded, this has been one of the worst things that had happened for a long time, one had to understand. Now it's actually pretty good that Mr. Orla Hav here today quite frankly says to the Folketing and the electorate: yes, it may be that we are against this and that it is completely useless, but we do not actually break up the tracks that have been laid, even if we have the power of government. Well, that's a clear message. This is the first time we've heard it. Because if you've really been listening, you'd think it was going to be driven all the way away and changed and replaced by something completely new. And we can listen to them, sir. Orla Sea may be surrounded by, if there is a red majority, that they are at least ready for quite a lot. So I actually think it's pretty good for the players in the market that Mr. Orla Hav today stands here and says: No, we manage well the arrangement that we have taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161533-2	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen puts words in my mouth, which I have not said at least not in that sense. We respect the decisions made in a former Parliament if we were to find ourselves in a situation where we could be included in a future majority. And then, of course, we will have to start from the situation that is at the present time. We don't agree with the direction of those tracks. Of course, we will try to change the direction of the tracks that have been laid, and in this respect I have not concealed the fact that we think it is wrong to offer Danes even more advertising funding and even higher payments to distributors of television and other media. We think this is wrong, and we will work hard to change that. But to say today that we have a plan for what is actually going to happen is to go too far. We do not have that at this stage. Now we're gonna have to see what the voters think about this. I have a hope that the voters can see through that this will weaken Danish-produced public service at a time when it is important to safeguard Danish language, Danish culture and Danish democracy. You can see that's what happened to this settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161647	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161648	Well, if you listen to what has been said, you could well imagine that the Social Democratic Party was ready to re-introduce the media licence and possibly make some tax increases to finance that big hole that has now arisen or the lack of money, as Mr. Orla Sea has mentioned several times. If there is to be coherence in what has been said so awful, it is a relatively small amount that needs to be found in relation to the tax increases that the Social Democratic Party has otherwise made over the lifetime of the Social Democratic Party, I would just say. Okay, here we go. So it is very hollow talk that is thundered with over quite a long time when the end result is: No, we just manage what others have done, no matter that we don't like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161726	I'm just gonna say to Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen, that I have seen a quite reasonable, sober estimate of which governments over a very, very many years have triggered the biggest tax increases. It has actually happened when it has been bourgeois governments that have swung the clock. So you have to stop making the invention that we should be irresponsible in relation to the country's economy. Our role has often been to sweep up when irresponsible bourgeois governments have run the coffers empty and you have not had the money to do the activities actually envisaged. So you have to stop inventing that enemy image. There is no hollow talk on our part, nor is there any evidence that we are going to put ourselves in a situation where Mr. Leif Mikkelsen will be able to stand and shout in six months: vows, vows!
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161818	Thank you. Then we don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Marinus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011161830	Thank you. These laws that we are working together today have several things in them. The main objective is to implement those parts of the media agreement which were made before the summer holidays and which require amendment of the law. The great thing is, of course, the abolition of the licence and the way we fund the public service in Denmark, so that over the coming years it will be financed from the tax. We also change the rules for the appointment of Danish Radio's board members. We empower the Minister for Culture to offer new radio and television channels on the basis of the new media agreement and to make a re-supply of FM 4 which is currently operated by Berlingske in the form of Radio24syv. After all, much has already been said on the part of the Social Democrats about the cuts in Denmark's Radio. It is true that the Danish People's Party wants cuts on Danish Radio, and we do so for several reasons. Firstly, we want it to be cheaper to be a Dane in general, and that is why we are abolishing the licence and, overall, we are going to charge less for public service over tax. We believe that when you abolish the licence and instead fund it in the other way, it becomes more socially fair. Secondly, we have also wanted to give more space to the Danish private media. Today the Danish private media have been pressured on one side by the foreign media such as Facebook and Google and on the other side of Denmark's Radio, which has had a very large amount of money to do so. We have found this to be an unequal competition. Thirdly, we also want Denmark's Radio to become more nationalist and to be present throughout the country and not only to be concentrated in the metropolitan area. In other words, we have wanted what we have called a more focused Danish Radio. Well, it is a smaller Danish Radio, but it is still gone a large Danish Radio, which in the coming years, when the savings rounds are over, will still have over 3 billion. kr. a year to do good and which they are sure to get. Then we still have a wish to Denmark's Radio that they should deliver things that private media cannot and dare to do, and that is also why we should all be involved in funding public service. So now we're gonna get rid of blackseers, too. The Danish People's Party still wants a diverse media image, but a media image with better space for both the private media and the local and regional media. Because we actually like Denmark's Radio. We do not like a large Danish Radio or a large and expensive Danish Radio, and that is also why we have made an agreement with the government that in the coming years Denmark Radio will be financed by 20%. less money than they have been given so far. The new public service contract drawn up by DR and the Ministry of Culture has also set the framework for the future activities of Danmarks Radio. The frames are set and Denmark's Radio will fill out the framework. When we in the Danish People's Party back in August 2016 presented our media releases and our proposals for the future media landscape, it was precisely with a desire for a better balance between the state and private media in Denmark and a Danish Radio that focuses more on public service and allows private Danish media and private players to focus more on content on market conditions. After all, we are pleased with the agreement we had made with the government: the abolition of the licence, the saving of 20%. and the media agreement itself back in June. From the first infancy discussions and until now it has been a clear case for the Danish People's Party to change the media image we have known so far. That is why, of course, we are also interested in how Denmark's Radio's activities should be prioritised in the future. Denmark's Radio is focused with fewer channels, less unequal competition between DR and private media and more Danish music on the FM channels. And we would also like to see more content coming from the province. Denmark's Radio will be required to get more around the country. We see this as something positive. The government, in its media report back in April, had planned for the FM signal to be turned off on radio. Fortunately, we got rid of that with many other things that we can get back to. In addition, I have already mentioned that the new public service contract actually states that the FM music channels such as P3 and P4 must increase their percentage of Danish language or Danish-produced music to 48%. We believe this to support the market, and we believe that this is also a public service task. Furthermore, Denmark's Radio will continue to offer high quality digital content as a contribution to DR's public service objectives. DR also still has to go, although some do not believe it, bringing text-based news, but they must leave space digitally and online to the other media. Last but not least, as I have said, DR must strengthen its regional focus and be present throughout the country, not only in DR's regions, which fortunately were freed from savings, but DR must therefore also generally be more present on all platforms throughout the country. In other words, in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, the future slimmer Danish Radio will benefit all Danes in all regions of Denmark, and therefore the Danish People's Party naturally supports both draft laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162359	Thank you, and the first questioner is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162403	Thank you. I really want to hear why the Danish People's Party let itself be conned by the Liberal Alliance. Now in this parliamentary term we have seen time and time again that the Danish People's Party has actually gone to the rest of us to avoid the government's antisocial distribution policy. This time, you've done the exact opposite. A great deal has been saved on public service so as to provide tax relief. And it is so tax relief that you can see going to the most well-ventilated. And not only that: when you change the license, you do it by lowering the personal allowance instead of taking it on the base tax. So it turns the heavy down; it is said that people have to pay regardless of whether they are rich or whether they are poor. Then it is true that a little has been set aside for the elderly, and that is good. But that doesn't change the fact that it's the vulnerable who really feel this. Why, however, has the Danish People's Party accepted it and given it to the Liberal Alliance in the hat?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162502	I don't think the Liberal Alliance sees it as a feather in the hat. I think they would have liked the rich people and the wealthier to have escaped even cheaper. I do not agree with the view of the rapporteur. Today we have a lot of things that we are all helping to finance from tax, and we must also do this with public service. It will be cheaper, among other things. To single people. They are going to drop cheaper in public service contributions than they do today. And if you're among some of the Liberal Alliance's voters, and maybe you have a really high income, then I actually think that if you count married couples together you're going to contribute more than you do today with a media license per year. household. So I do not see the same problems as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162548	Sir. Jacob Mark, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162549	Now the rapporteur himself said, that the Liberal Alliance would have liked the rich to have got out even cheaper. And so the rapporteur himself says that the rich have got away cheaply in this round and that it turns the social side down. And I would just like to know: now that there was a majority with both the SF, the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten, who wanted to abolish the licence and who wanted to finance it in a social solution where those who have the most pay the most, why not choose that model? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162621	There are two things to answer here. One is, you weren't there. You left. We couldn't negotiate with you. You weren't in the room. The second point is that there are many things that are currently being financed from the tax. Everything on the Finance Act is financed by the tax. We are contributing to that, and I think that this is actually a more socially just way of financing. Then we can discuss whether it is one or the other tax model that has been chosen. I'm sorry I just said you left. The rapporteur is right: SF was not there, of course, because you were not invited there and we made the agreement with the government. I don't think we were set up, but there were several different tax models in play. I still think that we have chosen a system that is actually fair. Everyone's going to contribute now. We don't need blackseers, too. We don't want people cheating on the public service. Everyone is contributing, just as we are paying for everything else, which is also being financed by the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162721	Then it's mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162724	All I have to say in relation to the tax financing of our common goods is that it is not going so well to bring that money in. So it may well be that the licensed-funded could compete in efficiency in securing the money that should be available. But leave it alone, because that's not what I'm gonna ask. It's just that sir... Morten Marinus has great faith in the tax financed. Sir. Morten Marinus says that people want taxpayers to let go of something cheaper. That is a noble purpose, but I should just like to ask: what has increased over the past many years in the field of media? Is it the license, or is it the cost of distributors, aerial companies and things like that? I'd like to have that, sir. Morten Marinus to repeat: something we have shared in the room that we have been in together for quite many hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162825	Now the rapporteur, Mr Seligman, said... Orla Hav, when he was on the platform, that we were asking teasing questions. This must be a little bit on the same ball street. I think it is necessary to abolish the licence. The Danish People's Party has also always said that it was necessary, from our point of view, for Denmark's Radio to be reduced and for all of us to contribute less to the state funding of Danish content in radio, television and other media. This does not mean that, overall, there will be less money in the area; in fact, we will also make room for the private sector. That then there are private distributors and other private channels that raise their prices, yes, I find that difficult to regulate from in here. I also wish there were some channels that would be cheaper. It may be that there is now when they also have a little more space to do well with. But from in here, we control the state media, and that's what we've done with this deal. We have said that we need a more focused DR and that DR needs less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162930	Then it's mr. Orla Sea, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011162932	Well, the only thing I'm asking, sir. Morten Marinus to explain is where the price increases have been. Has it been on the license? We could easily have found a system for moving from licence to tax financing; that would not have been a problem. But now that we have this subject, I would like to hear: is it the licence that has been enormously increasing, or is it the cost to citizens, to individual citizens, to distributors, and what the different ones are called? Which part has grown quite explosively? I know, but I'd just like to have Mr. Kim. Morten Marinus to say so before people go out and charge for using that great tax relief that has now been obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163014	But private distributors and private broadcasters have not become cheaper. They've become more expensive, but we just can't do anything about that in here. What we can do about is the size of the state media, also in relation to whether we continue to want the unequal competition that has existed, among other things. between Danish Radio and Danish private media. We're gonna clean that up now. I believe that a more focused DR will also be a DR that can give more room to private people, and I hope that it will ultimately also help to benefit all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163047	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163051	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to confirm that the reason why most parties left the negotiations was that they were faced with an ultimatum, and part of the ultimatum was that they had to accept the license agreement concluded by the Danish People's Party and the government. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm this, because otherwise everything will stop. Secondly, would the model chosen for the licence be a model that the Danish People's Party will transfer to other state tasks? In other words, should hospitals, the education system and the roads continue to be financed in such a way that the rich have to pay exactly the same in kroner and penny as the poorest people have to abolish the progression of the tax system? Is this the new tax policy, or is it only an exception when we talk about money for public service?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163151	First of all, yes, it was a premise that we should be able to nod to the 20% savings. on the Danish Radio to be part of the negotiations. That's right. What we then forget is that, in parallel, there were also forces working to obtain, among other things. The social democracy included in this media agreement and also offered them more money than we could get into the agreement of extra money for public service which could be spent anywhere other than Denmark's Radio. I do not know the size ratio, and it may well be that, as Mr. Orla Hav said it was a tenth. It may also have been more, I don't know. There was certainly a possibility that the result might be a little better from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, but it had been locked in that if more money were to come in, they should go to Denmark's Radio. It was not enough to be offered that they could go to other public service actions. So, yes, that premise was there. In relation to the tax model, I would like to say that, for the things we are funding today over tax, we do not intend to change the tax system. This was the art of the possible in relation to the negotiation and the agreement we made in the spring with the government in relation to the abolition of licenses. We do not intend to start changing the tax system in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163258	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163300	Will Mr. Morten Marinus did not also confirm that it was a condition that the parties who wanted to be part of the media agreement accepted the license agreement that Dansk Folkeparti had entered into with the government? It is a licensing agreement which is so bad and so antisocial that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party has just said that one could not dream of having any plans to transfer it to other areas, because it would mean a complete distortion of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163335	I didn't say the last one. I did not say why we would not want to change in other areas. We do not, because today we have financed these things from the tax. This was not the case with public service. That's where you paid a license. There was the most important thing in the first place to change for us that, overall, we are all helping to finance public service in the future, including black viewers. Now I forgot Question No. 2. I forgot. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163411	Maybe there'll be more chances. The next one is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163416	Thank you. It was good that we had just made it clear that no one left negotiations on this change of licence. There were parties that weren't invited we could eat it or not, and if we didn't just knock our heels together and say yes, there were no media negotiations. That is the reality, and it is just important to emphasise in this debate. I would like to hear two things from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. 1) Do you think that this model of financing is the most socially balanced model you could find? In other words, is this really the best model for achieving social balance in funding? 2) Does Dansk Folkeparti think that this conciliation will help finance more Danish content or less Danish content?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163504	First of all, I would like to confirm that it was a prerequisite, a premise, that the agreement was approved on the abolition of the licence and the 20 per cent saving. on the Danish Radio. Where the chain just jumps off, and what you forget, is that there actually were opportunities elsewhere to attract funds for public service which could compensate for some of it. That is what we wanted, among other things. Social democracy not to participate in. In relation to whether one has chosen one or the other tax model it may well happen that one could have chosen something that was more socially fair. In the Danish People's Party we have therefore chosen to say that the most important thing in the first place is that you have a model that means that everyone will contribute. No more blackseeing, no more creeping around public service is something we all need to help finance. This has been crucial for us to make the deal. And yes, there were other models on the table. The questioner also knows that when you make agreements, when you settle, when you negotiate, it is the art of the possible, and it is not always that you are one hundred percent in agreement. In some places you might have thought things differently, and elsewhere you are happy and contented.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163612	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163614	Yeah, 'cause there's no social balance when you put it together like this. Anyway, the second part of the question was not answered, and I think that is really interesting. Does the Danish People's Party believe that with this agreement they are helping to finance more Danish content or less Danish content?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163632-2	I'll try to answer both things now. When you ask whether the new tax agreement should give rise to more social imbalance, or at least not enough social balance, we actually believe that the existing licensing system is even worse, and I have already mentioned why sometimes. So I think it is a step forward in abolishing the licence. In relation to the issue of smaller Danish content: Yes, then it gives less Danish content funded by state, if we call them that, means. However, this agreement also provides room for private operators to enter the market where there has so far been unequal competition. So it's way too early to do the math.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163713	Thank you. Then we don't have any more on the list. I would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011163728	Thank you. I've been looking forward very much to dealing with this bill, or rather these two bills that we're dealing with now. We translate the agreement reached by the government and the Danish People's Party on the abolition of the media license and a focused DR, and we translate the elements of the media agreement that we subsequently concluded and where parts of the agreement require legislation. There can hardly be much disagreement that the current licence payment is socially unbalanced. Single people pay the same as households with more people, and then there are those who don't pay at all. And it is assumed that there are about 270,000 of them. With the abolition of the licence, we will solve that problem. We live in a time when the media market is constantly changing, a change in which the Danes become more digital, both in newspaper reading, TV viewing, streaming of series and films and radio listening. We need to ensure strong Danish media content on all platforms. We need to make sure that Denmark as a whole has modern, varied and strong public service offerings with a focus on core public service, and we need to ensure that there is a balance between state and private media, because private players contribute greatly to good Danish informative content, i.e. a diverse and pluralist media content. And in particular the latter part of the Danish Parliament's parties has tended to overlook. There are many very good new initiatives in the new media agreement. The parts requiring direct legislative changes are simplified provisions of the Radio and Television Act, a new composition of DR's Board of Directors, an extension of the authority of the Minister for Culture in relation to the TV 2 regions and the provision of two new public service channels. The latter is quite important because it contributes to diversity and pluralism. But there are so many other good elements in the agreement that I would like to mention here. We're gonna get a better balance. We do this by strengthening regional and local coverage on the daily page. We will strengthen the ability of newspapers to become more digital and thus meet the future. We are doing this by starting a VAT exemption for digital media, just as there is in the print today. Over the next 5 years, we will have a larger public service pool so that more players can produce Danish public service content. Overall, this is a very good and modern media agreement, and I am happy to announce that the Left supports the two proposals that we are cooperating with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164028	Thank you. The first question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164032	Thank you. In the SF, we are very concerned about strengthening the free and critical press, and I could use this one minute to talk about that I think we have weakened the free and critical press by pulling so many millions away from the public service. But what I want to ask is for a passage in the public service contract, which states that Denmark's Radio must no longer make long in-depth articles. It doesn't make any sense to me. I've also asked the Minister for Culture about this. Now, if a DR journalist gets a tip about some big international or national bank for that matter that makes a scandal, something that just has to do how is it to strengthen the free and critical press, and why does that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164132-2	Well, now there are others other than Denmark's Radio who are the free and critical press. It's just to make it clear in the first place. But I would actually like to reply to Mr. Jacob Mark's question. Now I remember this passage as saying: "Don't make... or shouldn't mainly make long and in-depth articles. It's just after my memory here, because I don't have the passion in front of me, and that also means that what DR should focus primarily on is shorter articles. We have also not entered into this public service contract and have defined what long in-depth articles are, precisely because we have to keep an arm's length arm's length. We're not going into the editorial room. But we would like to send a signal to DR, and that signal is: Dear DR, you must give the private media the opportunity to have a business model, you must give the private media the opportunity to contribute here too. And you don't know that we have a Dr.dk where you can go and get all your written information for free while, in the case of large national newspapers, you have to pay money for the same article. We have tried to change that balance here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164254	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164254-2	I am actually glad if the rapporteur of the Left and now I say the Left because it is a large party in the government that is softening on this passage, so there is still the possibility of making in-depth articles, which are also long if necessary, out on DR, and that freedom I think they should have. Then I just want to hear about something. Now the rapporteur says that there must be a balance between private and media like DR, and I agree with that. But I do not know one place in the world where it has strengthened the private media that public service has been cut. I have examined it, and I have asked both the private media, and I have asked the organisation Danske Media. Does the rapporteur know one place in the world where it has strengthened the private sector that the public service has been significantly cut?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164334-2	Now I just want to answer that question, sir. Jacob Mark asked before, and now I'm standing here doing it per. memory. I don't have it, sir. Jacob Mark said before, so when I say long in-depth articles, I think we wrote: as a starting point. And that is why I believe that DR can bring it to a lesser extent. In relation to the balance, Mr. Jacob Mark guaranteed or hopefully, I would say that I also met with private actors, just as I have as media rapporteur, i.e. Danish media, newspapers. But I haven't met a single player who thought it was okay that you could read the same content free of charge on Dr.dk that their readers had to pay for on their websites... not one and that's actually one of the reasons why we wanted to have this balance smoothed out. In the old days, the DR didn't make newspapers either. In the old days, it was the newspapers that made newspapers. Now it's moved over online, and now DR suddenly brings a lot of things online. I think DR should be present online, but I think DR should be present online to a lesser extent than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164449	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164453	I understood from the rapporteur of the Left that there were a great many good private providers who contributed greatly to the public service. I am not going to deny that at all, and of course I share the view that it is important that we have a high degree of pluralism in our news coverage. I would just like Mrs Britt Baker to tell me: what specific broadcasts does Mrs Britt Baker see contributing to the Danish public service, that is, the part that gives us as citizens better conditions for understanding and living in a democratic society, which is the public service task? Then, as a small supplementary question, I should just like to ask a question to which Mrs Britt Baker must be able to answer: what was the price offered to the Social Democratic Party by the Finance Minister in order to be able to participate when it had been decided to save 900 million? kr.? I do not know the exact price, but I would like Mrs Britt Baker to give it to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164558	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164559	When I talk about good private providers, I also talk about the newspapers. The newspapers are good private providers. They make very good articles and articles that are informative and addictive, and they I mean that when I talk about private actors. And I am not going to stand here and make myself a taster of what is good and bad content on commercial television channels. However, I would like to stress that we very much want to have newspapers and regional newspapers which are also viable and which are published on a regular basis in the future. In relation to the price, I would like to say to Mr. Knox. Orla Hav: Neither you nor I were in the Treasury, and therefore neither you nor I can report what was talked about in there. And I can also say that if I had been in the Ministry of Finance, in a closed room, I would not be referring from it either on the Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Sea, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164717	Well, I think it's a noble cause that the Left is preoccupied with, that is, saving Danish newspapers. The truth is that it has been the headline of a lot of media agreements, and the truth is that the circulation figures for Danish newspapers have fallen and dropped, and why should it not continue at this time? Because this media agreement doesn't deal with the falling circulation of Danish newspapers. It would have suited those who made this media agreement to get something together that had helped to ensure that we have pluralism in this area, and so that we could have ensured that there was proper communication between the newspapers and the ether bear media. Wouldn't it have been wiser to get it done rather than just putting restrictions on the ether-borne media?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164810	Yes, sir. Orla Hav, we are concerned with saving Danish private media. We are concerned with ensuring a greater balance. We are concerned that the Danes will in future also have good, diverse and pluralistic content, not only from the state DR, but also from private actors. We are also concerned that there is still a DR, but of course we are concerned that there are private players. That is what I hope the questioner is, although it certainly does not sound like it. When the questioner worries about the agreement that has been reached, I think the questioner should read it out, because a really, very good move has actually been made in relation to the written private media, which the media themselves have also been out to sign for, namely that we are releasing the digital part. This means a great deal for the media to adapt and for the media to enter the next decade. They have also signed for this, and I really would like Mr. Orla Hav did more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164910	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164913	Thank you. I would ask Mrs Britt Baker to define or explain what it is in the media agreement that saves the written private Danish press.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164933	VAT exemption for digital media.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164936	Mrs. Marianne Jelved, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164938	Was it necessary to cut 20%? by Danish Radio?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011164944	These two things have nothing to do with each other. When we want to focus Denmark's Radio, it has something to do with the fact that we generally believe that a better balance should be ensured. This applies not only to newspapers, but also to the commercial players who can contribute to radio, to television, to drama. It's not just the newspaper page. But the first question asked by Mrs Marianne Jelved was about the written media. There it is the VAT exemption. The money we have cut from DR has also largely been spent on a larger public service pool, on providing a new television channel, on providing a new radio channel and on strengthening local and regional content.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165027	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165030	First of all, in relation to the VAT exemption, because there I am a little curious whether the rapporteur really believes that the arrangements that have been made can be compared to a VAT exemption for digital media, that is to say, the regime that is currently in place. That is one part of the question. The second part of the question is this: on the day we have the opportunity to introduce zero VAT for the digital media, is the government prepared to introduce it immediately, it will be possible through the EU system, even if there is no equal funding for what is here? The rapporteur then said that the DR must be less present on the Internet. I was just squirming about it. So, one thing is that you don't want long, in-depth articles, but does it generally mean less presence on the web, even if you see a jolt of many users • the whole generation gap that we've been talking about, which has just gone from the flow platform to the network platform? Does DR really have to be less present on the web?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165125	In relation to the VAT exemption issue, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who is an expert on European legislation, is a good thing that when we made this scheme, as we did, it was because at that time no provision had been made in the European Parliament as to whether we could run through a full model. So when we made the VAT exemption model that we did, it was a good start to send out a clear political signal that this is the way we want to go. And that is what we are quite committed to finding funding for our things, which is why I can only say that this is the direction in which we want to move. I would like us to find funding for this quickly and to be able to phase in the full VAT exemption in a very short space of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165216	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165218	It was also in order to clarify that what has been done here is not a VAT exemption for digital media. You've made a pool they can search from and max. get 5 million. kr., so if it's more than that, it's not a VAT exemption. And some people can't really search because they're getting another media support. I just think we should be precise about that. I would like an answer to the second question, namely that the DR should be less present on the Internet. The rapporteur used to say that to someone else. I'm just curious, because I thought it was such a mysterious thing to hear when we see that there is a larger and larger group that actually gets their media from the web. Can't they get DR content?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165258	But if we start where the discussion here started, it was of course about whether DR should even be present on the web and, if so, to what extent. That's where we started this discussion, and I think so too, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist remembers, because we have been in several debates together and debated it. I think that the DR should be present on the web, but I also think that a better balance needs to be found between private actors and state actors. That is why we have sent a signal to DR: Of course you must be present on the web in the year 2018 • the whole of Denmark's Radio • but you must also consider that there must be a balance in relation to the private players who are actually trying to get a business model out of putting their articles up on the web. We find that balance better by introducing this clause. But, of course, DR must be present to some extent on the Internet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165352	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165355	Now you can accuse Denmark's Radio too much, but you can't accuse them of bringing ads that they have taken from the private media. You can't, because there are no ads on Denmark's Radio. So on that level it can be said that Denmark's Radio has been neutral in relation to the private media in the fight for the ad crowns. But what about the two new channels, the new television channel, the new radio channel and possibly what is now called 247? What about it? Will they also be neutral with regard to the private media as regards the fight for ad crowns?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165435	It may be that the private media that I see or read compete for ad crowns, but there is also something called subscription, which is an essential part of their business model, and that is actually what we have been thinking about when we have said that DR must limit what it is they are providing. It is for the sake that private operators, whether they are television channels or they are radio channels or they are written media, take money for what they do. It is still contributing to a pluralistic and diverse media image, and they must continue to do so. And that is why we have gone in and said that balance has simply been upset. We want to make sure that, in addition to a strong DR, there are strong private media, and we have done so with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165532	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165534	It was a relatively long answer, but I don't think I got any smarter. Because some media are being created, even with state aid, which will also be given the opportunity to advertise, and then they go out and compete with the private media, which Mrs Britt Baker is talking so much about, about an advertising market which is not at least increasing, but which is perhaps even or perhaps slightly decreasing due to foreign competition. So what is the reason, now that you care so much about the private media, for putting channels into the sea with state funds, which must compete with the private media for the advertising market?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165614-2	So, when a relatively long answer came, it was actually because there were relatively many questions in the first question, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked. After all, this is nothing new; that is already the case with the newspapers. We have been supporting the daily newspapers for many years. They also go out and compete for ads. Now we are doing it on television and on radio, and we are doing so because we actually want the Danes to have as much content as possible for the money they pay into the Treasury. So I think it is a very good move that we are now providing a radio channel and a television channel, where we state aid with a small bag of money, and where, hopefully, they can maximize it and give the Danes a large offer with a good Danish content.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165700	Then we don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011165717	I feel a bit like the Socialist rapporteur: I simply used up my positive attitude to the government in the previous paragraph and it goes beyond this point, and I am sorry about that. For almost 20 years, Enhedslisten has been arguing for the abolition of the license for almost 20 years! The problem of varietal viewers, which is mentioned, is not something new, and technological developments have been going on for a long time. So it has been quite obvious that one should go that way, and that is why, of course, I should also be a dungeon if I criticised the fact that a majority in the Folketing has now accepted this view, because I think that is a good thing. But then all the positive things have also been said about the two legislative proposals that we are discussing today, which are a follow-up to some of the elements that were included in this summer's media conciliation. Or maybe I should mention that TV 2 was not privatised. Praise to the Danish People's Party for preventing it. That was always something, it was actually part of the plan, so we also count it on the positive side: a bad thing that was not implemented. But otherwise it is very difficult to say anything positive: there is less public service, fewer Danish programmes, more advertising, less variety in supply, more reruns and less resistance to the troll factories, fake news manufacturers and the multinational media giants. It is clear that when this is, as it is, the starting point for us, our position is also that this media reconciliation and the two legislative proposals we are discussing today are one of the first that a new government will have to cancel and replace after the forthcoming elections with something new. I would like to say that I had hoped that the Socialist rapporteur had just as clearly said the same thing. I understand that the Socialist rapporteur does not want to talk about how much has to be recovered and exactly what, because it depends on a lot of things. But after all, we have participated in the negotiations, and I am confident that there will be a new majority, so you will cancel this media agreement and cancel these two proposals and replace them with something new. Just take the removal of the license. There was, of course, the possibility of choosing a model that secured the likeness of all other areas when we talk about financing public expenditure • that the widest shoulders should wear the heaviest load. We had that opportunity, just as when we finance roads, when we fund hospitals, when we fund schools, when we fund public pensions, or what we finance: the broadest shoulders carry the heaviest load, that is, progressive taxation. Instead, however, the government and the Danish People's Party have chosen a model in which virtually everyone, from the director of Danske Bank to the hard-working sosu assistant or shop staff on minimum wages, has to pay the same. Who is it that praises this attitude in their hearing answer? Who is it that lays down in his hearing answer and says: Fantastic, thanks to the Danish People's Party, thanks to the government for having implemented this model? Yes, of course it is the directors of the Danish Industry, and I understand that. I understand they're praising it. Because they're probably in favour of a flat tax, or it's not even a flat tax; this is worse than a flat tax, where everything has to be financed in such a way that you have to pay exactly the same to the welfare society in crowns and ears, whether you're rich or poor. I think it's hard. When people say that we have an upper-class government, I don't want to deal with it, but I think it's very difficult like understanding this in other ways than that it is I have to say that I wonder what the Danish People's Party is doing in that company. I recognise that this is a choice made by the Danish People's Party, and I heard that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was not immediately ready to transfer that model to other areas, and I am pleased about that too, because that would be totally antisocial and terrible. But why do you do this? What is the reason why one chooses to be a little antisocial when one now recognizes so clearly that if one puts this into a larger model, then it will be deeply antisocial? One of the things we see here as a result of this is the saving on Denmark's Radio. We have said clearly from the outset, also in the negotiations, that for us Denmark's Radio was not sacred, for us the public service was sacred, and that if we could find another way to strengthen the public service than right through Denmark's Radio, we were not unwilling to look at the amount for Denmark's Radio. However, we insisted that there should be a public service, and we insisted that we should not just rely on private individuals to solve the problems of the public service broadcasters with a public service obligation. Now we understand that Denmark's Radio has cut the sport virtually completely, and one is thinking about: Where can one imagine that disability sport will be shown? On TV 3 between the Champions League games instead of some ads? Does anyone believe that? No, of course not. There's not one of those commercial channels that could dream of spending time or money on it. Perhaps there are no channels that are public service-funded that could dream of that. But we have the advantage of saying in a public service contract that there are some things we, as a society, have to do, among other things. respect the fact that there are also people with disabilities who engage in sport and that therefore disability sport must be shown. But it's just an example of how this is going to have some concrete consequences. Another consequence of the proposals is that the corporate income tax between the majority of Parliament and the Community-supported media is decreasing, and this is unfortunately a trend which we see all over the world and which, in our opinion, is a completely wrong direction to take. We have already had one of the examples: the question of how seriously one begins to interfere in how long the articles must be on Dr.dk, i.e. Denmark's Radio's website. You'd think it was a lie. You'd think it was a lie that there are politicians in this Parliament who want to decide how long an article a journalist can write. I understand that an editor with a pair of scissors goes in and interferes with it and says, "You write too far." But the fact that the Folketing has something relevant to a journalist in a story that he himself has invented, made, produced, investigated, has to go in and say that it must be short, that it must not be long, is something quite different. I mean, excuse me, what kind of arm's length business is that? It's an absurdity, it's just absurd. Then it is said that this is about not planning from the private media and writing off their articles. I totally agree. That is why, in the run-up to the negotiations, we have also put forward a number of proposals on what could be done about it. Of course, there must be obligations not to plan from private media, and of course there must be the possibility, as we have suggested, that in private media, even with the infrastructure that Denmark Radio is, you can put up your own news on the Danish Radio website and use the infrastructure to strengthen the private media. Of course, this kind of thing is reasonable, but to decide how long articles may be on Dr.dk is simply absurd, just as when the Minister and the majority of the Parliament will interfere in whom the minority appoints to the DR Board. In our opinion, it is quite wrong to impose restrictions on whom employees may choose as their representatives on the board of directors. It should, of course, be up to the employees alone to decide who they want to be represented by, and no one should interfere with it. It is not employee representatives anymore, so it is again an interference in which the arm's length principle completely disappears. There are many other things that we could criticise in these proposals, but what I will do only is to welcome the fact that people do not have the opportunity to be overjudges so often: should government spending be financed with equal contributions to the rich as to the poor? Should politicians at Christiansborg interfere in more? Should taxpayers' money to support advertising etc.? All these things can be dealt with in the forthcoming parliamentary elections, and if we get the support we want, it is clear that this agreement and these proposals, which will be adopted later in this session, will not last.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011170751	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011170755	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I like it when you talk straight out of the bag, and I apologise for the fact that the applause went down when I was on the platform. It was not an attempt to avoid answering the question, but it left. I'm sorry. I would like to ask you about sport obligations and disability sport: it sounds almost like the rapporteur is disappearing and it should be DR no longer bringing it. After all, the public service contract we have made says that this is one of the things DR has to bring. Then one may wonder, and so do we, how to meet that obligation, when at the same time one saves not everything, but, as far as I can see, 24 per cent. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that the new public service contract actually states that it is precisely one of the focus areas for the DR to deliver on the future? The rapporteur makes it sound as if it were disappearing and that it should disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011170856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011170859	Yes, I can fully confirm that, but the point is that it is happening within the economic framework that Denmark's Radio has. The economic framework means, among other things, that: Now that the sport is being cut down quite sharply. I am familiar with the fact that the actual sports editorship has been abolished in Aarhus, the one that had just been set up and moved people over to etc. Sport will de facto be very watered down on Denmark's Radio, and this will of course also apply to disability sport. If we simply say that the same reduction is proportional to disability sport as all other sport, then there are two options: either the majority who has adopted it here has to go in and go even further against the arm's length principle and decide who should be employed where and how many minutes there should be of one thing and the other, or you have to bet on private individuals to bring it. And my point was, the privates don't bring it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171000	Sir. Morten Marinus, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171004	In other words, it may be that we have not been tight enough, as we have done this public service contract, or the Minister and the DR have signed a public service contract, which we have fortunately been involved in discussing, not negotiate, but discuss the Minister's right of veto, as the Minister usually does when making public service contracts. I understand that the rapporteur is concerned, because I am worried about that too. For the same reason, I have also put a question this week through the committee to the Minister in order to find out how the DR will meet these obligations, as it says, while at the same time saving it here on sport. Then you have to focus and save elsewhere, because of course we stick to our agreement. But can the rapporteur not just confirm that it says that the DR must focus on these areas, among others. disability sport, broad-based sport, popular sport? Can the rapporteur just confirm that it is actually there? And if it is a problem for the DR to do as they do, then we just have to be even more detailed next time we make a public service contract, but I have a feeling the rapporteur is not interested in that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171104	I want to do it again, and I also said before: yes, I want to confirm that; it says so. The problem is not whether Denmark's Radio will, but it is a question whether Denmark's Radio can. That is the whole point: a saving has been made on Denmark's Radio, which means that Denmark's Radio cannot fulfil the obligations that are required of them. We'll see about that. That's of course, because when you make a saving, it was 25%. like this in round numbers, 20-25 per cent. In round numbers, it is clear that there are a lot of expenses that cannot be tampered with. Well, there are some fixed costs, there's some heat, there's some electricians, there's some things that can't be tampered with. That means that the reduction will be on the programmes, and the result is now seen. Therefore, whatever the public service contract says, less TV for the Danes will be less Danish-produced television, including in disability sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171155	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171159	I can sometimes wonder what Enhedslisten is really doing in the Danish Parliament. Sir. Søren Søndergaard says that you have been working for 20 years to abolish the license, and in that time nothing has happened. The Danish People's Party proposed this two years ago, and today we have abolished the licence. In other words, we are ten times as effective as the Enhedslisten. Shouldn't you be working on getting a little better in Parliament? I understand that the rapporteur is terribly upset, so my job is to make him a little more optimistic. Let's talk about the regional. Is it not positive that the media agreement strengthens regionalism? You strengthen the regional radio stations on the Danish Radio, you strengthen the regional newspapers, you strengthen the TV 2 regions, you even strengthen the local newspapers for the first time. Isn't that just positive? Isn't that great?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171308	I would just like to say that we are suffering from the fact that we believe that we need 90 mandates in order to implement our policy, which means that when we do not have 90 seats, because others are against what we are proposing, we find it difficult to implement it, but I fully recognise that the Danish People's Party has been significantly better than us in obtaining 90 seats this far, so well. It is only a pity, then, that we did not use the enormous influence we have to finance the abolition of the licence, which was just the slightest bit social, but that we have chosen an anti-social model. But perhaps it was not a priority from the Danish People's Party that you thought it was irrelevant. As far as the regions are concerned, this was something that we were in complete agreement on in the negotiations, in other words both to prevent a reduction in the TV 2 regions, which we spoke in favour of in the negotiations with the Danish People's Party, and also to strengthen the regions, so I can easily sign that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171418	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171421	So, sir. Søren Søndergaard acknowledges that the Danish People's Party has helped abolish the license, Mr. Søren Søndergaard acknowledges that the Danish People's Party and the government have also strengthened the regional, so there is a better balance in the media picture. I thank you for that, because we are quite proud of that part ourselves. For many years it has not been something that was talked about in here at Christiansborg, but together with the government we have succeeded, and also there Enhedslisten has not made the great creature of himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171456	You must always see what price you are willing to pay, and it is clear that there is a difference between Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten. The Danish People's Party has repeatedly been willing to pay tax relief to the rich and to give worse conditions to the most disadvantaged. We remember, for example. The attacks on the cash benefits to get some other stuff. It is true that we do not operate in this way in the Enhedslisten, and we were not willing to do so, I would say to buy a media agreement with some limited improvements in relation to the regions for example. to introduce an antisocial media tax. We were not prepared to do so, and we were not prepared to create a media image where public service is becoming weaker and where private media are not being sufficiently strengthened. It wasn't a deal we wanted to make. The Danish People's Party has chosen this, and the Danish People's Party must then answer for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171548	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171550	I just want to hear the rapporteur very briefly: is the future funding of Mediedanmark more or less antisocial than the licence?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171602	It is quite the same, that is, it is just as antisocial, because it depends entirely on which family you are. It is absolutely equally antisocial, which is why we have been working to abolish the licence for many, many years, because it was antisocial, and then we have had an antisocial media tax instead. That is why one of our first actions in a future Parliament will of course be • and I cannot guarantee that we will have 90 mandates, but I can guarantee what we will be working to get a media tax based on the principle on which the rest of the tax legislation is based, namely that the widest shoulders carry the heaviest load when it comes to government spending. I hope that, from what has been said today, is something that the Danish People's Party will also actively support, and we will then be able to see whether it can generate greater revenue or whether it is the same revenue, but at least we can get a more social media tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171705	Mrs. Britt Baker, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171706	So the fact that my husband and I are now paying one media licence, the same as a single parent, will in future have to pay two media licences is just as antisocial as the licence. Well, that's it, sir. Søren Søndergaard says. It can never be as antisocial. We're gonna pay twice as much. All households do, and that is good, but it can never be as antisocial as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is claiming. The financing of media of Danish content by DR is much more socially balanced than the previous licence agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171754	It is not the least more socially balanced, and that is because Mrs Britt Baker is based on people rather than on income. So, the single multimillionaire, a director of Danske Bank, who has just divorced and is therefore single, has to pay very, very little in the media license, whereas two shop workers at minimum wage have to pay twice what the multimillionaire pays. Is it social? Yes, it is social in a certain perception of the world, namely the view that the broadest shoulders should not carry the heaviest load when it comes to government spending. That's the difference between Enhedslisten and Left we're completely different on that level.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171841	Then there's no more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011171855	Thank you for that, President. I'm gonna be in a glorious mood when I hear Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, who is thundering against this, because it confirms to me that we have actually hit quite precisely and correctly. So it's not a bad day for several reasons. Now it is also the case that I do not really need to point out much, because it has been a rather easy course of negotiations for a party with the Ministry of Culture. After all, we have a bottom-up task, and it is in this sense to back our minister in the proposals that the Minister makes. We have done so, and it has been very easy, because they have been good. The elements in them have already been mentioned, and there is no need to list them again except to dwell on the fact that you finally got a break with the license. Then I would just like to point out one more thing, when the Danish Radio is brought to light as many times as the great disaster. I just want to remind you that Denmark's Radio continues to receive more than 3.5 billion. kr. a year after this change, and that the difference actually, when we see it over the years, is to be overlooked. In 2023 you will now get 3.7 billion. kr., and if the license had continued and had been printed, an amount of 3.8 billion would have been received. kr. according to the tables there are. So the difference is kind of overlooked. I think Denmark's Radio is doing it and will continue to be a beacon, and I think that today we should respect the fact that the Danish Radio's management has actually made a plan that is perfectly sound and good, and that they are actually doing it with as high a mood as Mr. Søren Søndergaard just with opposite sign. I think we should certainly sign that because we are doing so that Denmark's Radio will continue to play a very active role in media policy in Denmark and can be an active player in that change. We are in a media world that has changed significantly in recent years. It will certainly do so in the future, which is why changes will be needed, even when we look into the future. But, of course, we are totally behind these proposals and that is a good compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172112	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the alternative. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172120	Thank you. It started so well when the Minister of Culture joined. We were about to examine in depth what it was really like to link up the future media agreement. The Minister of Culture had to go out into the country and meet with different groups of citizens and talk to the stakeholders who produce in all sorts of different ways and platforms, and really investigate to the bottom: What does the media picture look like? How are we going to make a media agreement for the future? How is the content made? How do you accept it? At the end of the day, we should talk about the whole funding, but first we should know about what we were going to discuss. The minister arranged a series of tours around the country and there was a web platform to write on. I myself went around a few places with the minister, and it was really exciting to talk to citizens in Denmark about how they actually use the media and how they get in touch with the content they want. Then all of a sudden it happened that the whole process, which should have resulted in us talking about funding, was hijacked over in the Treasury behind closed doors. Without trying to look at how we could do this together, an agreement was made on the economy and how to screw it up. Then that was the marvellous course, the process that the Minister had set in motion, where we really had to examine to the bottom what we wanted to do together, destroyed. I think that was really, really a pity, because I actually thought that it was a very good process that the Minister put forward, which also had a look that we actually see major changes in the media picture, and we should have taken that in. Now you have an agreement, and these two legislative proposals we are going to look at today are just not going the way I would have liked to have seen. A financing has been made which, unfortunately, is not as socially balanced as it could have been. One might say that where the licence, as we knew it, was antisocial, because you spoke front doors instead of revenue, you now count people instead of income. Well, you could really have chosen to balance this. You didn't choose to do that. It is also possible to take a stand against the arm's length principle with regard to the appointment of the board of directors. But you actually just walked the other way. Then there is the whole content, and here you cut into Danish content, and you privatise a lot. For all that you would suddenly put in as new things to create this amazing new content, you have to gear yourself with advertising crowns, which we don't really know about exists. Because when we've looked at the statements that we got handed over to the Ministry, these advertising revenues have been quite constant, also as to who gets them, so it's gonna be exciting to see how to find that money. What I really just want to say today is that it is a pity that the good process that the Minister set up was completely destroyed so that we did not have real negotiations based on the information we had been around to gather all together and that everything was shut down in the Ministry of Finance. What you can probably figure out from these words is that the alternative does not support the two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172449	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172500	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist bought Mr. Søren Søndergaard's argument that it is socially bad to do what we have done. But now I've just checked out the numbers... it's taken a while to find them... and isn't it true that a single LO worker has DKK 1,242. in annual savings, and is it not true that a staff couple only have 166 DKK. in annual savings? And just to be safe, I'd like to say that these are figures from the Ministry of Finance. So can the rapporteur confirm these figures and thus also state that the agreement we have made is far better for the vast majority of Danes than the current licensing system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172554	Of course, the rapporteur cannot stand on the platform and confirm some figures, as the rapporteur does not take up his phone and stand and google while the questioner does. What I think is important is what kind of system we are doing. So, do we count on having a progressive tax that makes those who earn the most, pay the most, or do we not? As I said very clearly, that was not an argument bought by Mr. Søren Søndergaard, for I said the same day that you came out with this agreement... it's a shame that you go from counting the main doors to counting people when you should count on income, that is, progressiveity, which is the way we make taxes. I have no reason to doubt the figures that the questioner is reading, but I cannot verify them from here I don't have Google at my fingertips.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172634	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172638	If I now say that the figures that come from the Ministry of Finance have been published on the Danish Radio website, does it help to confirm these figures? And if we now assume that the rapporteur believes in these figures, can the rapporteur not confirm that it is much more socially balanced than the current licensing system, which is a cup tax, where everyone pays the same, high as low, and the less you earn, the more you pay relatively? So this arrangement we have made is actually something better than the current licensing system. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172720	Now, in fact, I replied very clearly before that I had no reason to doubt the figures that the questioner was reading. So I don't know why I have to say the same thing again. I have no reason to doubt it. But it still does not make the system more socially balanced. It has gone from counting the main doors to counting people instead of looking at income and making a tax as we usually do, namely with a progressiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172741	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172746	[Audience outbursts]... because Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's question leads me to raise another question, and that is whether Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not find it shocking that we have a Ministry of Finance which is so committed to low propaganda. Well, I'm sure, because I also remember that statement from Danmarks Radio that there was no single millionaire against a single unemployed person, for example. It was chosen that way so you could get that picture. And isn't it really a bit awkward that instead of having a central administration that provides figures and facts that can be widely used, one goes into such propaganda and selects some figures that, like that, point in a very specific direction? Isn't that really a little disconcerting?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172844	I would say that it is almost a completely different discussion about whether you should have stronger economic work on the part of the Danish Parliament, because it is true that figures are something political when you stand and do those fun family comparisons, you always choose exactly what suits the project you present.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172901	Then there is no more on the list and we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and this is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011172913	Thank you. It is a huge responsibility that a narrow bourgeois majority sits on Denmark's Radio, as we see in this agreement and in the consequences of the agreement through the legislative proposals. The licence has been abolished in favour of a tax ticket. This could easily be discussed, but I would like to make it clear that there is something special about the fact that there is a relationship between the licence payers and Danmarks Radio who receives and collects the licence. And it is a different relationship than there is between a Finance Act and thus the Finance Minister and the Government and those who are to deliver the money to Danmarks Radio via the tax ticket, on the principle level. Radical Left will not deny that one can change the form of payment from licence to tax. We think it is a pretty complicated way of doing it, but I would just like to raise the principle of what has at least been the hallmark of my perception of the importance of the licence. But the license could also have been made more flexible so that one did not make it the same for everyone, but made it dependent on income. That is also possible, in a sense. However, the agreement that has now been reached and which we are discussing through the two legislative proposals changes the working conditions of Denmark's Radio very radically, and it is the government's responsibility that this should be done by a narrowly bourgeois majority. I regret this when it is such profound and continuous changes to something as significant as Denmark's Radio and its terms as public service activities. We have a law on broadcasting, and section 10 of that law describes what public service is for something. It is a very broad definition of the concept of public service. It is a question of having a wide range of programmes and services, which include news, information, teaching, art and entertainment, which leads to debate and which emphasizes Danish language and culture. It is characterised by quality, versatility, diversity and broad information, objectivity and impartiality. It is actually a gift that we have so broad a definition of what the public service is for something, and therefore also a knowledge of what we can expect and what we can ask, I would have almost said, in this case Denmark's Radio as a public service company to account for. They must make offers which are characterised by diversity and cultural interests in society. Denmark's Radio has a very high level of credibility in Denmark. The Danish media are under economic pressure, and I certainly recognise this, especially because of the major media giants acting internationally, such as Google, Facebook and the like. After all, they have taken the ads from the Danish media, and that is the main problem for them. It has been discussed over several years how to deal with the challenge, as it is of course. And what is strange is that the Danish Media does not somehow unite and, through cooperation in something similar to Geomatic, can target their advertising much, much more directly to the relevant consumers, whom it might interest to receive advertisements from the Danish Media, and thus raise revenue for them. The Danish Media has not tried to do so. I find it difficult to see that the Danish Media itself has actually contributed to trying to solve the task that has been for them in terms of the challenge I have just described. That's too bad, because what they've been looking at, to use a popular expression, is Denmark's Radio. Denmark's Radio has a size that is relevant in a country like Denmark, which is a small language area with a small population, and therefore Denmark's Radio must of course have a certain weight and size in order to hit all citizens in Denmark who are entitled to participate in the public service with which Denmark's Radio as the common institution for all of us, children and adults, old and young, etc., must be able to reach us all together. It is, of course, a task that we have repeatedly demanded from the Danish Parliament. At the same time, Denmark's Radio must maintain its credibility broadly in Denmark. I think Denmark's Radio has done fantastic well, and that is why I can be a proud citizen of a country which has an institution of that nature until now at least. We also had a study carried out some years ago, a research work commissioned by the Ministry of Culture, where researchers were asked to study the way of the news from the various media and to Denmark's Radio and from Danish Radio and to other media. And what the research results showed was that Denmark's Radio did not live high on the news of other channels or institutions. The relationship between Danish Radio's use of news was completely similar to the members of the Danish Media's use of news. You can still see the results of the study which confirms that what I am saying here is right. Therefore, it has really been on some false grounds that we have discussed this here, because it has been difficult to get the Danish media to recognise what I am saying here. We now see that the Danish Media is very pleased with what has happened here, and believe that they can carry out their task in a completely different way, by reducing the Danish Radio budget by 20%, and that several channels are being introduced, such as: must be financed by advertising. It is violent, and it is a cut-back or may be the result of the content variation we have today on the Danish Radio we know. It is important that we stick to the fact that it is impartial content when, among other things, it is. is financed by the channel from which Danmarks Radio is also financed, i.e. from the public via the Finance Act. However, you may have concerns about how things are going, and that is because there has been a breakthrough or a breach of what has been the arm's length principle in our handling of Denmark's Radio and TV 2 by the Danish Parliament. The narrow bourgeois majority behind the legislative proposals we are debating today has interfered in the length of articles on the Internet. You can say that is quite innocent, and it may not be as square as I say it here, but we can discuss that later, but what's my point here is that now you've broken the ice once and gone in and set yourself on in this case an assessment of the magnitude that something must have on the Danish Radio's website. And once the ice is broken, it is easy next time to get a good idea of what you could interfere with in relation to Denmark's Radio, and thereby address Denmark's Radio's independence. The Radical Left deplores the increasing volume of advertising that is now coming on new channels and is really going to be a supplement to what has already been paid over tax. In fact, Denmark's Radio should also be given the opportunity to apply from the public service pool created by the conciliation which has been concluded here with the narrow bourgeois majority, and I think this should be re-examined very strongly in the circle of politicians who are firmly behind these legislative proposals. Finally, I would like to say that the shift from media licence to finance through the Finance Act is not something that we are in principle opposed to in the Radical Left, but we see L 36 and L 37 as a whole, and the RV cannot support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173754	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173758	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved for the rapporteur's speech. What I would like to ask or have confirmation of is not so much something that the rapporteur mentioned in her speech, but something that goes back to the previous media agreement, where Mrs Marianne Jelved was Minister for Culture and where Mrs Marianne Jelved, as Minister for Culture, managed to make a broad media agreement with all parties, if I do not remember completely wrong, including the Enhedslisten. Is it not true that it was in that agreement that it was decided that DR's board members should not be reappointed for more than two periods? When I ask, it is because Søren Søndergaard claims that it is we who have wanted to interfere in how DR's employees should elect their two board representatives. In relation to DR's employees, nothing has changed as to how they should appoint board members. It is the same as in the agreement we made with the rapporteur when she was Minister for Culture. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173900	Well, I don't remember it in this way that we interfered in how Danmarks Radio's employees appoint their board members. I'm sorry, but you can go back and find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173912	Sir. Morten Marinus, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173914	Well, the reason I'm asking is because sir... Søren Søndergaard made it sound as if we were now also interfering in how DR's employees should appoint their two board members. Now I have tried both in the text of the agreement and in the law to see whether something should have changed in relation to what we all agreed on last, namely that one should only be appointed for two periods. What is new, and the Minister can discuss this when the Minister takes the floor, is how we select the party-politically appointed board representatives from in here. I believe that the current Minister for Culture will address this issue. I can only see from this that we have not changed the conditions under which DR's employees appoint their representatives on the board, and I had hoped that the former Minister of Culture could confirm this, namely that it was the last time it was affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011173959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011174002	I do not wish to deny that what Mr. Morten Marinus says, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011174010	Thank you. Then we don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011174019	The world is changing rapidly. News can spread from one end of the world to the other in a split second. News you could once trust and were sure came from a reliable source is now more often fake news or fake news. Undemocratic governments are interfering in popular elections in other countries with Internet trolls or trolls. Journalists are replaced by robots in order to deliver news faster. Large international companies, which are not subject to the same democratic control as the rest of us, gain more power and, at the same time, pull ad crowns out of a Danish media market, which is under pressure, weakening the conditions for making free and critical press in the future. Lisbeth Knudsen once said that we are in some sort of turnaround time, and she called for us to come up with some solutions together across the Folketing to resist the pressure coming from abroad and there comes I think we should strengthen the Danish media where they are pressed. I believe that we should strengthen the free and critical press by increasing media support, and I would like to commend the part about the intention to exempt digital media from VAT. This is the right way to go because it strengthens the private media. I believe that we should strengthen the private sector without making too many demands on what they have to deliver because the money strengthens them. I'm against the pool tyranny. I believe that if a firm basis for the free press is provided, it also writes good news. I want to ensure that there is good content for our children and young people. SF will ensure that we spread our common cultural heritage, and SF will ensure that whether you were born in Køge, in Aalborg or in Frederikshavn or were born in Hillerød, you have access to news, you have access to culture, you have access to content that can bind us all and promote the democratic conversation. What I'm trying to say is that when we went into these negotiations, it was based on strengthening public service and strengthening Danish content. When we do not vote in favour of the legislative proposals, it is because we believe that things have turned out differently. There are a lot of details in this media reconciliation, and you could have delved into many of them, but the basic and what I think is the political question is: In a time when the Danish media are under pressure and where there are many fake news, is this the right way to go? I do not think so. Yesterday it was a day of mind on the DR. When I first heard the term "mind day," I asked a reporter: What does day of mind mean? That's the day you can be told: We intend to fire you. There were approx. Two hundred people fired last night. In the media agreement or the public service contract, it is probably in fact said that there will be a total of up to 400 employees on DR who will be fired. It is a pity for them, but it is more a sin for us as a society. When DR2 gets weakened, it's too bad for us as a society. When the culture channel on the DR closes, it's a pity for us as a community. When sport coverage deteriorates and the small sports that could once only come out via Denmark's Radio are weakened, it is a pity for the sport. When newsjournalists get fewer, it's too bad for our news coverage in Denmark. There's gonna be a little less for us in here at Christiansborg to do, because we won't be controlled as much, but in fact it's probably too bad for us in here at Christiansborg. When you cut the nerves of life onto parts of Danish music, it's too bad for all of us. And when you close good political programmes, which have been seen by hundreds of thousands, it is a pity both here at Christiansborg and for all of us. I believe it weakens our democratic dialogue and I believe it weakens the media market as a whole. There still comes away and there I agree with the Minister for Culture to be good content. We are still going to have strong public service. I think that the plans made by the DR in the circumstances under which they are under are quite reasonable. But when you look at it all together, this is a weakening of public service in Denmark at a time when it is more pressured than before, and it is unreasonable. The argument for what I call the carnage on DR has been put forward in such a long campaign by various parties. Some have been worse than others. Some people who have been really bad, I think, have been the organisation Danske Media, who has toured over and over with the message that it will save Danish private media if you cut down on DR. I have asked them over and over again: Where is evidence that this is the case? Which place in the world has public service been cut, and then the private media have suddenly flourished? Nowhere. On the contrary, there are indications that when you have a strong public service with free access, consumers simply consume more news because they first enter the public service channel and then they get curious about something else. So I think what is happening now is that they are going to experience that they have even worse conditions of competition compared to the threats that are from abroad. Like sir. Søren Søndergaard, I would like to go into a debate on how to have DR better at sharing and using DR's strength to lead more people to the private media. I would also like to discuss, and that is also what I said, that we had strengthened private media support, but this is not going to strengthen the private sector. And I don't understand why they think that. However, even the private media have also come to an end with the realization that I think is important, namely that this is a global weakening of public service. You take first, at least in the numbers I have • and now I have tried to find the completely updated figures • 72 million. DKK 140 million kr., then 242 million. kr., then 284 million. kr. and then 378 million. kr. out, i.e. approx. 1 billion kr. I've been trying to be around and verify the numbers. Approx. 1 billion kr., as was supposed to have gone to public service, is pulled out of the market. If you do not think it will have disastrous or, at least, serious consequences at a time when the market is already under pressure, then I do not understand it. Nor do I understand that the Danish People's Party has agreed to this, because of course it will also have a negative impact on regional coverage. Of course, it will also mean that there are fewer people around who get good news. Finally, I would just like to say that there is also part of this and it has also been discussed a lot about the licence: praise for the pressure to abolish the licence, praise for those who have helped to change it so that we no longer have a licence in Denmark. The license was antisocial, the license was illogical because three students had to pay three licenses, and one family had to pay one license, and the license led to many not paying at all for our public service in Denmark, so the license was stupid, and it is good that it is gone. I would have thought, and that is what actually led me to my question to the Danish People's Party today, that it had been financed through the bottom tax because, as Enhedslisten also said, it would have meant that the widest shoulders wore the heaviest loads. And when I wonder why the Danish People's Party did not seize that opportunity, it is because there was a united opposition ready and said: on this we would like to press the government for a more solidarity solution than has been found. And in fact, sometimes we agree on that in here when it comes to finances. Then the Danish People's Party does not usually look pale to come over and say: We would like to accept a good offer. You didn't do that here. I think that's too bad. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister: when you are a small party, which the SF is until the next elections, many conciliations are being negotiated as rapporteur. I have never before seen it being told at the beginning of the conciliation negotiations that it is take it or leave it before we negotiate. I believe that the media market would have benefited from a broad agreement, and I also hope that there will be a broad agreement after an election, and I hope that this was the last of its kind in the Ministry of Culture to negotiate in this way. Because I don't think that's healthy for the conciliation culture in here at Christiansborg. Yes, I would say to the Danish People's Party, we will do everything we can to get a new media reconciliation and a new public service contract after a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011174914	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011174918	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Jacob Mark can also be sure that if a majority were to change after the parliamentary elections, and that new media negotiations are then invited, then the Danish People's Party will also be there, because of course we will seek influence, regardless of who sits in the various ministries. My question is actually triggered by a wonder, a wonder, as Mr. Jacob Mark said from the platform that in this agreement there is a weakening of regional content. Now, I do not understand that, because it is not the media agreement that we are discussing today, but the things that are being affected by legislation, but in the media agreement we have also been about something that does not concern the law at all today. In fact, it was we who ensured that we strengthened the non-commercial local radio and television, strengthening the TV2 regions. Both stood in front of a saving. We made sure more money came in. DR's P4 districts have been excluded from economic savings, and in addition, the public service contract states that DR must be present throughout the country widely on all platforms. How, then, can the rapporteur stand by and say that this is a weakening of the regional situation? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175029	I thought the rapporteur would ask that question. I think it is very good that some of the savings in the regions were removed and praised the Danish People's Party for that. We fought for that too before we were thrown out of the negotiating room. When I say that it is going to weaken the regions anyway, it is because this agreement is going to weaken the entire Danish media market. The circuit and Danish journalism, both the private and the public service, are weakened. You take a billion out of the market at a time, as I just said, was a time when large international giants are getting more and more ads. Unmounted savings, or a few million, can't change that. This does not change the fact that one billion people are basically taken out of the media market, and it will also have a negative impact on the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175123	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus for his second brief remark, but he apostates. Thank you. Then there's no more on the list. We thank the rapporteur, and then we go on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175136	Today we are discussing two legislative proposals, L 36 and L 37: L 36 on the transfer of the license to a media tax and L 37 on the media agreement 2019-2020. I will deal with those elements of the media agreement that require amendment of the law. First, the new media agreement will strengthen the Board of Directors of Danmarks Radio. I think it is extremely important that a billion-dollar company like DR has a strong and professional board of directors, understood in that way that someone is appointed with good media and board experience. Therefore, we change the way the board is elected, so that the six largest parties in the Folketing each nominate two candidates for DR's Board of Directors, after which the Minister of Culture and the six parties jointly appoint 6 members to the Board of Directors. We are also introducing a power to offer new broadcasting channels. For example, we agreed in the media agreement that a new cultural television station should be set up. The overall purpose of media conciliation is to create a more differentiated media image. That is why we are providing a new television channel, hoping that it can demonstrate, in the same way as Radio24sy, that you can therefore make quality public service outside Denmark's Radio. We believe, in fact, that supply creates more value for tax dollars. Therefore, we are convinced that it is part of the solution if we continue to offer quality and content to the Danes. Radio24syv has been successful, but the broadcasting licence expires, and therefore the channel must be put back in tender. It will be under some other conditions. Radio24seven has had many means to launch the shipment. That will be adjusted. A new cultural radio channel is also being offered to focus on culture and classical music. So we must now implement much of the media agreement that we have negotiated this year. It is a media agreement that strengthens the diversity of the Danish media landscape. An important element of the agreement is also that we reschedule the licence. Time's running out of the license. There is virtually no licence obligation. Therefore, it does not make sense that the licence is not charged on an equal footing with other taxes. Therefore, it has been possible to make an agreement on the license with the Danish People's Party, so the license is changed. With this change of law we take a fight with the approx. 260,000 licensed households who cheat DR and the rest of us every year by not contributing to the public service common fund. This also avoids the fact that DR has an unnecessary cost of licensing and campaigning. By changing the collection from licence payment to tax, the license will be more fair to all of us. Single people no longer have to pay the same as a household consisting of several people, and at the same time everyone will contribute to our common public service. No one can outrun the bill anymore. Does the tax license mean we're going to turn the license tax up and down? No, of course not. So far, the size of the licence has been adopted by means of multiannual media agreements, and this will also continue in the future. It is important to make it clear that the change from licence financing to finance finance will not change the fundamental independence of Denmark's Radio or the citizens' payment to DR. There is a group of people who do not enjoy Denmark's Radio as much as others, and it is blind and strongly weak. That is why we are also placing a pool of initiatives targeted at this group. In addition, we will offer a special media check to the elderly who have previously paid a reduced licence. So, all in all, it is a good restructuring of a system that does not make much sense anymore, and of course we support it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175630	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011175657	Thank you for that and thank you for a lively and passionate debate. This suggests that there are important issues at stake, and I certainly think there are too. Free and diverse media are essential in a democracy. Free media are the salt of democracy and, of course, diversity is absolutely crucial. There have been a great many comments here during this debate, and we have been very, very much around, and we have also been much more far-reaching than what the two legislative proposals are actually proposing. But these are important discussions, and we have already had an open consultation on this and a new one has been called. I come to all the consultations that it has to be, and I am happy to answer questions from now on. But in the first place, I would like to try to stick to what the legislative proposals are really about. So it is not because I do not want to take the other debate; I am happy to do so. But L 36 is about focusing on DR and the abolition of media licenses. The government parties and the Danish People's Party have found that the media license, as it is today, is socially unbalanced. Individuals today have to pay the same as households with more people, although larger households typically have a higher media consumption. So in the current system it is also the case that there are a very large number of viewers who do not contribute to the financing of the joint public service, and that is why on 16 March 2018 the government concluded an agreement with the Danish People's Party to focus DR and abolish the media license; we were simply given an economic framework. And here I would like to make a small comment on Mr. Jacob Mark, who asked if it was not entirely new to say that there was a premise before going into the room where the overall media agreement was to be made. When Mr. Uffe Elbæk was the Minister of Culture at the time, it was announced that it was a premise that TV 2 should not be put up for sale. So there are examples of this, and I think there are many other policy areas too. You might think that's good or bad. It's a perfectly legitimate discussion to have... but it's not the first time, even when we're talking about media negotiations. The draft law here replaces the media licence, and gradually we have a transition in which we make less regulation of the personal allowance for anyone who has reached the age of 18, and that means that with this change, black viewers can no longer avoid contributing to the financing, just as we can say that, in particular, single people will achieve a relaxation. Today there are certain groups of pensioners who can have the media licence reduced by half, and with this bill we are introducing a new media check for pensioners who are currently entitled to a reduced licence. It is also the case that blind and highly partially sighted people today can be exempted from media licenses. In isolation, the change that we are proposing here will not take account of that particular group, and that is why we have set aside a pool for initiatives aimed at blind and highly visually impaired at 10 million. kr. Annually from 2019. The media licence will be fully abolished by 2022 and the gradual transition implies that, during a transitional period until 31 December 2021, DR and the regional TV 2 companies will receive a State grant that will increase in the period 2019-2022, while the institutions will continue to be funded by licence fees that will decrease over the same period. The financial framework for financing DR has been laid down in the political agreement and incorporated into the bill. The conversion from licence financing to finance law funding does not alter the basic position and independence of DR and regional TV2 companies. The political and economic framework will therefore continue to be established through multiannual media agreements for the entire media sector and through public service contracts. It is a concern that has been raised many times and I do not think there is any reason for that concern. It will not be the case that we can start touching these things from one year's Finance Act to the next year's Finance Act. Then there is L 37 on the implementation of parts of the media agreement. On 29 June 2018 the Danish Government and Dansk Folkeparti signed a media agreement for the period 2019-2023, i.e. a 5-year period. As has been mentioned, the main objective of the draft law is to implement four aspects of this media agreement. Firstly, it is proposed to simplify the general provisions of the Radio and Television Act on the public service activities in Denmark. After that, only the permanent public service institutions such as DR, the regional TV 2 companies and TV 2 will be specifically mentioned in the law. Other public service providers do so on the basis of a licence issued by the Radio and Television Board. It is therefore proposed to introduce an authorisation allowing the programme activities of these enterprises to be included in the overall public service activities in accordance with the specific provisions of the Minister for Culture. Secondly, it is proposed to change the rules for the appointment of the DR Executive Board, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. The aim is to strengthen DR's board of directors, also in terms of independence and composition of competence. So with the bill, the six largest parties in the Folketing will each nominate two candidates for DR's Board of Directors, after which the Minister of Culture and the six parties jointly appoint six members to the Board of Directors. Thirdly, it is proposed that the current authority of the Minister for Culture to lay down rules on regional TV 2 companies should be extended to include supervision and sanctions. And that point has nothing to do with the media agreement, but it has to be seen in the wake of a report by the State auditors on the regional TV 2 companies. Fourthly and finally, it is proposed to introduce an authorisation for the provision of new public service channels. The intention, in accordance with the media agreement, is that a new radio channel and a new television channel will be offered again to enhance diversity. The other points of the media agreement will either be implemented administratively, for example. in the form of public service contracts or contract notices, or be implemented by a subsequent amendment of the law, e.g.: the rules on the public service pool and media support. With these comments, I should just like to say that I look forward to the continued discussion and, of course, I am available for the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180359	I would like to thank the Minister for Culture. There is, for the time being, one brief comment here, and it is from Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180406	Thank you. I often have a little objection to procedural questions, but I have a little desire to ask one of these, because I think that the process of media conciliation was a little different from what I am usually used to, where you try to get broad conciliation. That has been said several times in the Chamber today by some of the cabinet colleagues of the Minister: why didn't S stay and why didn't the SF stay? I would really like to hear from the Minister himself: do we agree that what we were met by SF, S and the other parties was that, in order to be able to be in an agreement, if we were to have something to say in that room, we should accept a partial sale of TV 2, and we should accept a 20-percent saving on DR, and otherwise we had nothing to do in the negotiations, that is that was the message we got?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180500	I can fully confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180504	Thank you. I am actually glad that the Minister confirms this, because hopefully that will be the end of the story that we did not want a broad settlement. Because we would have liked to have looked at whether we should have made things more efficient, for example. DR's administration; we would have liked to have looked at whether public service funds should have been used differently. Then I would just like to say that if we are fortunate enough to have the majority after the elections, the Liberal Alliance, at least if it is up to the SF, will be invited to broad negotiations on a new media settlement, because I believe that the media market needs that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180533	Of course, we will look forward to that if that situation arises. But when we say that the premise was the financial framework that was laid, it is because, if we opened up to it, then we opened up to all that was the purpose of making this significant change in relation to diversity and the picture of how Danish media should evolve. And it is a real political disagreement that one can have. There was a desire not to reduce in the overall economic framework. That was the wish of a majority in the Folketing who did not want to meet, and therefore the roads had to be separated. To this I would add that it has been mentioned, including by Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left, that there is a custom to make broad media agreements. If you look at the media agreements that have been made, there have been five since the turn of the century, and the two have been narrow, and the three have been wide. I think it is a good thing for us to be able to make broad agreements, but sometimes it is also the case that if we are to make fundamental reforms, we must face up to the fact that it will become narrower. And I do not think that is only true in this area; it is true in other areas too. But it's not because I think it's bad to make broad deals. I certainly don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180652	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180656	I would say that I also think that the Minister for Culture has been quite clear about that all the way through. It was already said at one of the first meetings that if there could not be a broad consensus on those starting points, it would be a narrow agreement. I think that is fair, and it also highlights just how marked and clear the differences are. It's different directions you go in. The government and the Danish People's Party have chosen to go in a direction in relation to the media and choose one financing model, we others would have preferred something else. So it is not a criticism of the Minister. It is just a statement that there is a different approach. The Danish People's Party's rapporteur asked the Minister whether it was not in the previous settlement that an agreement was reached that there should be an ongoing replacement of the employees on the Danish Radio Board, including on the employees' side. That is why I would just like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister to confirm that this is absolutely correct. It is in the 2015-2018 media agreement. Fortunately, it was also the case that at the same time it was decided that that amendment would only enter into force after the next media agreement, that is, after the next media agreement, which of course reflected that there was no support for it in the conciliation circle. I just want to ask the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180834	Thank you. It has been said a lot today that there are some very, very different approaches to this media area, and that is when we talk about the economy. However, I think it is worth emphasising that there is also a great deal on which we agree. We want the Danes to have access to high-quality Danish content in a number of areas in a diverse range of media. I have not got the impression of anything else from any party whatsoever, and I think that is actually worth taking with me here. How we then ensure this and what economy should be around it, we have some deep disagreements about, and that is clear, I think, for anyone who has followed the discussion here today. About the ongoing replacement of employee representatives on DR's board of directors, it's not something we've touched at all in this media agreement. So that is something that lies in the previous media agreement. I do not remember the exact wording of this, but it is not something that has been touched by in this agreement. But I will give you a very precise written answer on that when we get it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180938	Thank you. Then there is one more, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011180944	Now, in my speech, I spoke in favour of the importance of using broad conciliation, and it is not true that I said that there was a tradition that the media agreements were broad-based. At least I didn't say that. I haven't even checked that out. When I say what I did in my speech, it is because it is very central, as I see the world, that there is a very large political breadth behind such a central institution as Denmark's Radio, because we are all representatives of the citizens of society as rulers. We are together. That is why it is important that one can see oneself in such an agreement. That is why I am really, really sorry that it did not become a broad agreement on the basis of the reasons I have just given here. It has nothing to do with the government not being allowed to make its proposals, but it means that a government must be able to find a common starting point for making such an agreement. I think it's worth it. I would just like to ask the Minister to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181057	I would have liked to have seen a broad settlement, but I could see in it, when we are talking about premises, that if the premise was that there should be no economic reduction in the media sector, then we could not reach each other. You could say that you were standing there at different ends. The government and the Danish People's Party had created an economic framework that we did not want to change. The opposition parties were those of those who made clear that it should be brought back crown by crown. These ends could not be achieved together, and that is also sometimes the case in a democracy. After all, we all have the backing and opportunity to discuss DR all the time, but there is the extra curly fact that when we appoint to DR's board, it is not only the media agreement parties who appoint to DR's board of directors, but it is the six largest parties in the Folketing. In this way it can be said that, even if you are not part of a media agreement and the parts dealing with DR, there is therefore the possibility that at least the largest parties have an influence when the DR has to transform what is in the public service contract into the actual daily life of DR.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181207	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181209	After all, the Minister is going to use or repeat what we have heard several times from various rapporteurs, i.e. that the Danish People's Party and the government agreed on some economic grounds. But the Danish People's Party is not part of the government. The government can, of course, make its presentation to the circle of rapporteurs for the parties, and here I am thinking of all the parties in the Folketing, and then take a debate there, instead of obtaining a majority before entering the circle of parties. That is what I call a kind of symbolic false premise, because there the rest of us did not have any influence on the economic basis. It is a choice made by the government, and it is to give the Danish People's Party a disproportionate advantage over all the other parties. And that's what I find problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181311	Well, I'll take note of that. That's how we chose to do it. I would say that the governing parties were in complete agreement that a precondition for us to have the changed economic framework was that we found a party to the agreement that would be at this level. And we did. It is quite okay to criticise that it was done in this way, but that was the way we chose to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181335	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Culture. And there are no objections. So it's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181356	We are opening negotiations with Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181409	Thank you for that, President. There are too few people involved in science subjects in Denmark. We lack scientific competences, and this is what we do in primary school with qualified teachers who are too few students in high schools who choose it as a course of study, and thus too few get a degree in science afterwards. It is the case that this bill is to follow up the science strategy put forward by the former minister. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the proposal for a natural science centre is beneficial to several sections of society. It is essential to focus on how the natural sciences can be promoted, and that is why we also welcome the proposal. The aim of the centre is to strengthen the quality and teaching of natural sciences and sciences. We must also promote interest in recruiting for training and employment in the scientific subjects. We very much lack more young people who are interested in and qualified to take up a scientific education, and in this way Denmark can become one of the leading nations in the field. To take an education in science subjects presupposes that the teaching is at the top already in primary school. It is therefore crucial that the purpose and tasks of the Science Centre are in line with the needs experienced today. Thus, education can be strengthened in a more up-to-date way. An annual programme for the Centre, which contains a priority plan for activities and interventions, ensures a strategy for strengthening the field of science. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this would be a good tool for promoting the area, and that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181603	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181615	Thank you, President. It is, of course, a very cute, small proposal with a nice literal rhyme, a national science centre. It can barely get any better. The fact that it then moved to Sorø just over a year ago, after living somewhere else, and then got a Latin name, is now called Astra, because it merged with the Science Center, which is somewhere with Mærsk, does not make the matter any worse. And, as I said, this is a small, cute proposal, because there are some things that the centre needs to pay more attention to. After all, we have worked very hard in the past to strengthen the natural sciences in primary schools throughout the country, and they must continue to do so, but here we must draw up an annual programme to strengthen strategic planning. You also have to enter into a performance contract with the Minister of Education so that the overall performance focus can be promoted. So it's all very good. What just has to be the final goal is that we strengthen the natural sciences in primary school, because it is absolutely crucial that we focus on these a little hard subjects in primary school. For many years there has been a focus on the talking subjects, but we can't just live on that. We must also live on these subjects, because they help to pave the way for more engineers and people who are, after all, helping to create growth in Denmark, to create exports, and who, in the long term, hopefully, can also mean that more people are taking a vocational or professional education or a technical education at the university that companies will need more and more in the years to come, and it is absolutely crucial for Denmark's well-being and wealth that we can solve it. So, although it is a small, cute bill, it is an extremely important legislative proposal, and we hope, of course, that we will have increased results from the Centre's work. So all in all support from the Danish People's Party, and we look forward to following the Centre's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181839	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181850	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today updates the legal basis of the National Science Centre, including its operation and functioning. This is due to the Government's National Science Strategy. The update is important because it ensures that the centre is better equipped to deal with current issues in science and science education in the future. It is also proposed that the centre be given general purpose and task descriptions to reflect the current state of the centre. It is also proposed that an annual programme be drawn up which includes a priority plan for the Centre's activities. With the bill here, the National Science Centre will be able to carry out a number of tasks in the new science strategy and contribute to its implementation. With that said, the Left supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011181951	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182002	The aim of the draft law here is to update and update a legal basis for the National Centre for Natural, Technical and Health Education, which was set up almost 10 years ago. When it was discussed back in 2009, the Enhedslisten, like the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the SF, could not support the then government's proposal. We indicated at the time on the part of the Enhedslisten that we generally supported initiatives that strengthened natural sciences and science, but that we could not support the concrete proposal because of the funding that was at the time. We fully agree that there is a need for a national natural science centre, and it is my clear impression that a great many good initiatives and projects are being undertaken from the centre, but I do not want to hide the fact that we in the Enhedslisten are generally somewhat concerned about the merge that is of public and private funding. It can be said that it is at a symbolic level illustrated very clearly by the fact that Astra's head office is located at the Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Knowledge Centre in Sorø, and moreover it is very strongly emphasised in the legislative notes that the centre is organised as it is, among other things. to attract private funding. Basically, we think it must be a task for the state to provide the necessary economy to finance tasks that are as important as those that are solved by the knowledge centre. That is why we would actually like to see a different construction, but I would say that the legislative proposal for an adjustment that lies here can be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182201	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182211	Thank you for that, President. Bill L 57 is a follow-up to the government's national science strategy, and this involves the establishment of a national science centre. As you know, Denmark is still part of Western civilization, and if there is anything that characterizes it, it is that it is a scientific and technical civilization. It is because of technology and science that we have had the poverty that has been the basic conditions of man since we arose as a species, it is because of technology and science that we humans have an unseen high life span, and it is because of technology and science that the world has shrunk into the affordable size it has today. Technique and science have disadvantages, but it will also be in the form of other and better forms of technology and science that we will overcome the disadvantages. As participants in this year's Sorømøde can testify, we have made very great progress in Denmark in improving the teaching of science, technical sciences and mathematics. But as participants in the Barack Obama event in Kolding recently can also testify, some subjects become even more important in the future. Therefore, it is both due diligence and good governance that the government is now proposing the creation of a national science centre to strengthen the teaching of mathematics, science and technical sciences, and that naturally backs the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182414	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182422	The alternative also supports this bill; I stand here for Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, who could not be here today. We believe that it is sensible to make Astra even better able to deal with the current and future needs of the teaching of scientific subjects in primary and secondary education, and that it is also sensible to adjust the regulatory framework so that they reflect the current form of the centre and adjust the things that were probably current at the time of establishment of the centre, but which have since had to be updated. The draft law will give the Centre a more general description of objectives and tasks, and an annual plan will be drawn up for activities and areas of action which will look for years to come. I do not want to go all the way to the big blade, as the rapporteur before me did, but I would say that we support the bill. However, I would like to mention that we would have liked to have seen in the context of the new purpose description for the primary and secondary schools included resources for the development of skills for teachers. We would also like to see the establishment of similar centres for other professional areas, especially in the creative and craft trades and language subjects, all of which are required and which several young people would like to choose to train in. There is a great need to strengthen these subjects in the same way as the scientific subjects, and hopefully it will be the next step. But, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182625	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182645	Thank you. The Radical Left can also support the draft law we are debating now on a national science centre. Many excellent things have been said by the rapporteurs who have been on the floor before me in connection with the discussion of L 57, so I shall not repeat them. But I would just like to stress that we agree that the natural sciences still need some kind of innovation in the didactics and teaching of it and ideas for use in the other educations we have, i.e. primary and secondary education. I have only a small comment of principle: I think there are too many swings and carousels, one might say, to a management when it comes to performance contracts. In my view, management should be described in such a way as to avoid the need for a performance contract. So that's just a point of principle. Because I think that the purpose of the institution can be formulated and then what the management's task is expected to be, and that is what the management must live up to, and that is what the educators must relate to the outcome of; instead, they must now deal with a performance contract that the management must do what it should have done anyway. But it's an allergy that I have to deal with profit and loss contracts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182818	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011182826	Thank you. The government wants to set up a national science center. That's a good idea. We need more young people, more students to find joy in working with the natural sciences. I read that as being one of the purposes of this science centre, about which much has already been said. There is one thing that I think is really good about this perhaps a little changed focus compared to the center that is today, and that is that there is so much focus on strengthening the subjects, and I know this is something that also takes up the Minister of Education, and it also takes up SF and me, because we have had a tendency for many years to have a lot of focus on what is outside the subjects and outside the hours of cooperation, open school. It is also very important, but I really believe that the most important thing to do is to ensure that children receive quality education from some professional teachers who have time to prepare. So the fact that there is an increased focus on the subjects, I think is very good. Then I would just like to say that one small thing that is in the answers to the hearings I have also written to the Minister about the fact that there are more, both the professional colleges, but also the educators themselves, who say that they think it is a pity that the target group for this does not also apply to day-to-day and leisure services. And there has been the answer to me that it is possible, that is to say, that the centre can do well, and of course I am happy about that, but I hope that in the future it will be the case that you also think of natural sciences and working in a more playful way with natural sciences into the day offers, even when school time is over, and more than just as such an inspirational material, but where we may actually actively ensure that it happens. And I don't think that's exactly what you're gonna do with this. However, in the SF we can support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183026	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. And then it's actually the Minister of Education who's on my note here. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183039	Thank you very much. Natural science is not just a trade for the world's distant geeks without contact with reality. Natural science is therefore also important that it takes up a lot in Danish children's schooling. All children and young people must have a knowledge of science and education, for it is also the key to an exciting life and a future rich in experiences and opportunities. But there is a need for even more children and young people to become skilled in science and science subjects. We should very much like more children and young people to take an interest in physics, chemistry and geography in primary and scientific subjects in youth education. That's why the government launched a national science strategy in March of this year. The strategy consists of a number of areas of action. One of the concrete initiatives was to target and strengthen the National Science Centre, which is today called Astra, and we do so with this bill. But the whole strategy was large and comprehensive • 180 million. kr. When a child enters his first class in the natural sciences, what is to happen there, and how to build on that professionalism? There I have set up a group with researcher Anja Andersen in the lead who will discuss exactly that, i.e.: How do we create the inner context in the subjects? And when they have finished thinking, there are some professional teachers who have to take over, and in this way I hope to have a very lively trade debate on the natural sciences. There is also an extended talent strategy for pupils who are particularly interested in the natural sciences, which should mean not only that, as today, as a skilled natural science student, you can enter Astra and get one on the experiencer, but also that teaching material that can be brought into the classroom can also be obtained, so that pupils who are particularly skilled and particularly interested can also be met by their teachers while they are in the classroom. In addition, there is an initiative with the so-called supernatural science teachers, where we provide an even longer course of science training for specially interested teachers. So there are many different good things in the package, but what we are discussing here is Astra. And I would like to thank the parties that support the bill. Astra's task is to develop, collect and disseminate scientific knowledge to primary and secondary schools throughout Denmark. This is happening, among other things. through targeted educational programmes, talent competitions and talent programs. The Centre has undergone a number of organisational changes since its creation by law in 2009. In 2015 Astra was merged with the Danish Science Factory and in 2017 with Science Talents at Sorø Academy School. And it is natural that there should be changes to a national science centre, because the dissemination of natural science is an area that develops and new needs arise for what such a centre should be able to do. With this bill, we update and update the legal basis of the National Science Centre. The current description of the Centre's tasks and objectives reflects the needs that were current when the Centre was set up in 2009, and with the Bill we provide the Centre with some more general purpose and task descriptions. This will reflect much more the current form of the centre. At the same time, we ensure the need for flexibility in legislation over time. This will allow the centre to adapt continuously to the way in which they carry out and handle the tasks. In addition, the bill will strengthen cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Centre. The Centre's management must be responsible for more strategic planning. This includes, among other things: a annual programme with a plan for the activities and areas of action of the coming years. I look forward to developing a strengthened and more modern science centre which can continue to contribute to the dissemination of science knowledge to a lot of students around the country's schools and youth education programmes. We need to put the spotlight on the interest of children and young people in science. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183510	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183542	We are opening negotiations with Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183543	Thank you. The world has become smaller and we have a much more globalised world. When we created the new framework for primary school, we would have liked to have something more internationalisation, but we couldn't really agree on that. That's why we made this original bill for the school year 2015-16. Social democracy was behind the original law on municipal international schools, where the revision is now wanted to be postponed. The original purpose of the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools was to allow for the establishment of international primary schools, if necessary. It is the case that since we have made this law, only one municipality has wanted to create a municipal international primary school, and this may be due to the need to have independent management on a separate land register. Some have said in their hearing that it would be an advantage if a department could be set up at an original primary school, and we think that is a good idea. This is not something we should be dealing with here, but at least it has been stated that it might be a better idea. A greater part of a greater international focus is about attracting highly trained labour. Several companies across the country are ready to receive the foreign labour force, and with this law on international primary schools we can both welcome them and their children. Although we also have it here in high school, it is found in the corresponding IB courses, which have an increasing demand, and therefore it will also be more beneficial to provide internationally oriented primary school classes, so that pupils have the opportunity to start from the very beginning of school and have the opportunity to choose the international one. In the Social Democratic Party we are therefore in favour of the proposal to postpone the statutory revision of the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools for the parliamentary year 2018-19 to 2021-22. We also think it is positive that the primary school can solve the tasks of international schools, and that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183755	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183759	The Ministry's evaluation shows that no municipalities, except one, use the law, and wasn't it about time we just rejected the law and started all over again?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183812	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that many of those who have responded to the hearings are right. This is a bit difficult because it is the case that you have to have independent management on a cadastre for yourself, and that is why I also think that if you do it in the same way as they suggest, you can do it as a department at a school, it will be beneficial, and then I think that more municipalities will do it. It is so that I think it is a good idea that it is a primary school that can do this international task, because the task is getting bigger, the world is becoming more globalised, and in this way the world is becoming much smaller, so we need to prepare ourselves for the future, including in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183850	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183851	So the law is a failure, but the Socialists will not help to remove it, although free schools and private schools can actually do what the Socialists want, namely to set up international departments or international schools. So why not just remove the law, because no one wants it because it doesn't work? It's just bad work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183914	Now I think that the Danish People's Party is going to be a little alone in relation to this bill, because there are actually many people who think this is a good idea. It's a good idea that the primary school is also allowed to do this task, and we're gonna make it even easier for the primary school to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183930	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, who is on his way to the platform as a representative of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011183946	Thank you, President. The bill is actually just about a revision, but the Danish People's Party will not vote yes, we will recommend that we vote against the revision. Then why do we want to do that? Well, the evaluation from the Ministry shows that no municipalities use it. The law is a failure! There is a single municipality that has wanted to set up, and then there are seven who then propose that one can instead have a separate department at a municipal primary school. And it is 71 municipalities that have responded, and that is quite a lot, that is three out of four. So we have a pretty good picture that the law is a failure and we do not need it. Let me just go back to when the law was passed in the Folketing. After all, there was a violent debate, because it was quite a surprise for the Danish People's Party to suddenly see a social democratic government suggesting this here after we had together made a reform of primary school. And during the primary school reform we had discussed international municipal primary schools, and we ended up taking it out. So what does the Socialist-led government do? It's just saying that we'll make a law outside of primary school. They have thus paved the way for other governments and ministers to do the same, which we have then used, and there the Socialists have been very angry. So our recommendation is that we drop this law. And then let us take that review straight away, because it will probably show roughly what the evaluation shows. There's no need for that law. We have the opportunity to set up international primary schools at private schools and free schools, and that must be enough. It supports the Danish People's Party, but we do not want to use municipal taxpayers' money to set up an international primary school where you teach German, English and French in all subjects. Taxpayer money must go to teach in our mother tongue, and it is Danish. In addition, these so-called municipal international primary schools cannot work without Danish pupils at the school because the customer base is simply not large enough. The companies around can't deliver enough children from parents abroad. Then suddenly we get an A- and a B-school, where some go to these international primary schools and are taught a language that is not their mother tongue. And we know from studies that it produces poor results, and we know from the university that you learn less when it is not done in Danish, and we also know that teachers are less able to deliver teaching when it is not done in their native language, which is Danish. So there are just so many good arguments for dropping the law. If, at last, companies really want such an international primary school, then they can cooperate with the free schools and then they can pay for it and support it. But do they want it? No, companies in Denmark often have such a cash aid mentality, they want the state to pay it all when it comes to themselves. So, in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, we really think that we should start all over again. Discard the law, let us take the review immediately, and it will probably show that there is no need for the law, as no one bothers to use it, and there is no reason for us to go in and change the law. I hope, of course, that there are others in this Chamber who can see the sense of it. It's no shame to have to admit that you've been wrong, that you've done something that doesn't work out that lesson, I think every once in a while in this life I have to take. The very clear recommendation of the Danish People's Party is that we say no to the law, because we want a review now, and then in a year's time we drop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184415	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184417	Now the Social Democrat rapporteur said that the Danish People's Party is probably a little alone with the view. That is also true, because the way out of the Danish People's Party was in fact in the process of making a new law, that is to say the law on municipal international primary schools, and then you did not break the settlement. If the same majority who passed the law scraped it and said that now it would be done inside the primary school, that is, under the primary school law, and if the DF still did not want to and they did so anyway, so that it could enter into force after the elections, would it be a breach of conciliation in the eyes of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184500	This is a very clever question, and I also know what the SF rapporteur is referring to. The fact is that the previous government, supported by among others. SF, of course, laid the basis for what the rapporteur is referring to. It's a bad thing, but you've prepared the way yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184518	There are further clever questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184521	I am still trying to continue because what has made this possible, for example. to create autonomous schools or to propose to the government a new autonomous draft law on autonomous schools is not a conciliation breach. And the reason why it was not seen as a breach of conciliation was, as I said, that a new law was introduced. But if it had been done as a change to the primary school law, under the auspices of the reform of the primary school, and had implemented it by a majority outside the Danish People's Party, which is also the conciliation party, until after the election, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said at the time that it would be a breach of conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184551	I already said at the time that that bill was, in my view, a breach of conciliation, and I still consider it to be, precisely because it was part of the reform of primary schools. Then you didn't get it through because we didn't want to be part of it, and then you said, "Well, then we just do it outside of the primary school law." So it wasn't very pretty.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184615	With that, we thank Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. And if Mrs Britt Baker is able to break free, it is in this way that the rapporteur of the Left can now come to the floor on this item. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184631	Thank you. With the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools of 2015, the municipalities were given the opportunity to establish international primary school offers with effect from the school year 2015-16. The law also states that the Minister of Education is proposing a revision of the law in the parliamentary year 2018-19, and that is what we are discussing today. It is precisely the revision of the law that is proposed to be postponed to the parliamentary year 2021-22 with this proposal. The review is proposed to be postponed on the basis of a consultation of all municipal councils, where it is estimated that insufficient time has elapsed to assess whether the law should be continued unchanged, whether it should be amended or, where appropriate, repealed. With this bill, we will postpone the legislative review until the parliamentary year 2021-22 and thus ensure an improved basis for decision-making on whether the law should be continued, amended or repealed. With that said, the Left supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184746	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184751	The evaluation shows that 70 out of 71 municipalities do not use this law at all. Would it not be smart and efficient and a regulatory simplification and a debureaucratisation to remove this law when it is so unnecessary and unnecessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184817	Well, we've sent this to a hearing, and all the municipalities have had an opportunity to respond. And when we postpone it, it is because we do not think that this law has been in force for enough time to assess whether it has worked or not. That is why we are postponing the resolution. It is simply because we want a more documented basis for decision-making to find out whether this works or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184846	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184847	Does it not impress a rapporteur from a government party who would like to simplify and debureaucratize the fact that 70 out of 71 municipalities say they do not use the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184902	It always makes an impression on me. Nor have we in the Left determined what is to happen. What we have made clear is that we do not currently have enough knowledge to assess whether or not to change. So we have not determined what will happen in the future. But what we have laid down is that the decision-making basis must be more thorough, that the decision-making basis must be greater, and that is why we want to let it run for a number of more years. In fact, I also think there is something quite fundamental in that we are not just changing the law with a hoof-saol but simply saying that things should be allowed to work out there before we decide on anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184946	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. Next in line, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, and this is Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011184953	Thank you. In the light of the evaluation of the law on municipal international primary schools, which shows that no local authority has chosen to apply the law, it can be said that it might indicate that there was no strong need for the law, as has already been touched on in the debate. But it is now the case that in the Enhedslisten we do not have the slightest objection to postponing the review and seeing how it moves on with this and then taking a position at a later stage, as it is proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185033	There is one question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185036	It is quite overwhelming that 71 municipalities have responded and that 70 say they do not use the law at all. If it turns out that the audit reaches the same result, will Enhedslisten agree to scrap the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185053	So, Enhedslisten did not support the bill back in 2014 or 2015, so we do not have strong feelings for it, but immediately we have with the evaluation that has been made and in that there is no practical experience, not at all against waiting with a review, but if there are proposals for repealing the law, then of course we take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185120	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185129	With Bill No. L 58 proposes that the statutory revision of Act No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to justify its wish to postpone the review, the government states that no municipalities have yet been aware of the use made of the law. In the world outside Christiansborg it could suggest that the law is superfluous and that a bill which perhaps went on to completely repeal the old law, 609, therefore might be more relevant. But that is not how we think here at Christiansborg. There is a beautiful old tradition of thinking that if you spend more time and money on a bad idea, it will turn out to be good along the way. After all, this is a tradition that we accept in the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185247	There is one question again, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185250	This is one of the most beautiful endorsements I've heard for a long time to a law you don't like. It surpasses that of the gentleman who sits in the chair, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. But I just need to understand what the rapporteur is actually saying. In other words, the reason for postponing the review is that we hope that more people will find out that the law is good and that therefore we will not have to scrap it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185327	I have just written a book on old traditions at Christiansborg together with the Minister for the Environment and Food and Mr. Nick Hækkerup, which is why we have worked very hard with the traditions that are here in the house. So what I am saying is simply that there is a tradition that has been widely used and is widely accepted among politicians, because if something does not work, it is because too little of what does not work has been done. Most other people think this is irrational, but it is a tradition of politics and we respect it because we respect political traditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185407	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185408	Wasn't it about time we started changing some of the traditions that make things that don't work don't go out?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185417	I stand and speak to an honourable representative of a conservative party, and if that is what conservative thinking is, then I am very willing to agree to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185429	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. It should then be the rapporteur of the alternative, but it is not, so we move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185447	Thank you. On behalf of the alternative and on my own behalf, in other words the Radical Left, I should like to say that we support the proposal to postpone the revision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185459	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. With speed, sir. Jacob Mark on his way up to the platform as a representative of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185508	Thank you. In the SF we are part of the agreement on international primary schools. We also have eyes in our head in the SF and have also read the interim evaluation and, as such, we can see that the ideas that we had when international basic school offers were created that it should be used for example. attracting foreign labour and providing the children of foreign labour with an attractive school offer is not something the municipalities have taken advantage of. It could be a lot of things. This may be due to the fact that it is simply not really needed. It may also be due to the fact that the law we have made is too rigid. But what I also read is that there are a number of municipalities that have wanted us to take another post office, where we see if this law is good enough as it is. If there are the same results of the evaluation next time we do it, then I think we should change the law or, at worst, scrap it if we consider that things are exactly the same as they are now. But the idea of making some offers that target more internationally, I kind of like that, so I would say that is the starting point for a future debate. But let's give it a little more time, and then we'll see what's smartest to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185634	It then gave a question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185637	I really think it is very nice that a politician takes note of an evaluation and responds to it, namely that if the review shows the same thing as the evaluation, we might as well scrap the law. I actually think that's very nice. I understand, of course, that SF would like to have international primary schools, although we do not support it, but is the solution not the one that already exists today, namely that free schools and private schools are given the opportunity to set up these international primary schools in cooperation with the business community, which so fervently wants it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185720	I really think it's a little interesting if some of the children you had thought about these foreign families, this foreign labour force, also get into the public schools, so that it doesn't become such a small enclave out in free schools and private schools. I actually think that the children who attend the public schools will find this interesting, but perhaps in reality they will also benefit greatly from broadening their horizons. So that will be my starting point for the debate that will then take place on the law. However, as the rapporteur also notes, it must be a law that makes sense and right now it does not really work. So we should let it run for a while and then we'll see what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185759	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more rapporteurs in the line. So we are now ready to hear the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185810	Thank you very much. There are already private international primary schools in many places in Denmark, and these schools are doing a good job. Since the school year 2015-16, the municipalities have also had the opportunity to establish municipal international primary schools under the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools. This law was originally adopted to give municipalities better opportunities to recruit and retain highly qualified foreign labour locally and to attract foreign companies. That was the reason. But so far, the municipalities do not use this option. This may suggest that there is no need to supplement private international primary schools. The law states that the law is to be reviewed in the parliamentary year 2018-19. Prior to the audit, an evaluation of the law shall be carried out. As part of the evaluation of the law, the Ministry of Education has conducted a consultation with all municipalities, and the vast majority of municipalities have no proposals for amendments to the law. We believe that we can spend more time in deciding whether the law should be repealed. And that is why we propose that the revision of the law be postponed by 3 years until the parliamentary year 2021-22.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185927	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185930	Thank you. After all, the minister is known for having a great love for free and private schools. Since today's law is such that free and private schools can set up international primary schools, would it not be reasonable to use this evaluation as an opportunity to scrap the law rather than postpone the review?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011185954-2	I have a great love for the free primary schools and for the primary school, which is why I believe basically that although the two forms of school are different, it is also good that there is a certain balance between them. That is why I think it is a good thing that the primary school also has an opportunity to set up an international primary school. That is just not something that has been taken advantage of, and if it continues to be that there is no need for this, then we have to look at whether we want to continue with it. But what we say from the government is: give it a little more time and then we'll look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190036	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190037	Does the Minister recognise that municipal international primary schools distort competition towards free and private schools because tax money in the back pocket can be used to offer the same thing as private schools are allowed to do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190056	After all, it can be said that precisely the imbalance or difference between municipal schools and free schools in general is that all free and private schools receive a grant of 76 per cent. per student of what is on average used on a primary school student. So that difference is there, on the other hand there are some degrees of freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190122	With that, we thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the negotiations. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190136	The negotiations have been opened. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190155	Thank you. In my family, we have had talent classes very close to life. It is the case that our son has been in an elite sports class in the 7th, 8th and 9th classes of an ordinary primary school. So this talent class thing isn't new, but with Bill L 59, we'll also be able to create talent classes in music. It's good that the municipalities can help determine whether they want to make these talent classes. In this way, better space is given to the specific local wishes and they can be better dealt with. We therefore welcome the proposal, and we also welcome all the proposals that increase professionalism, because that is precisely what we are discussing at the moment. So now with this bill, we're introducing talent classes into music throughout primary school. We are also pleased that we focus on students with a special musical talent. As I said, several schools have already had the opportunity to create special talent classes with a focus on sport, and these initiatives have brought something good with them, so the phenomenon of talent classes can be spread out in the other practical-music subjects. We believe that all pupils should be as skilled as they can, and that is why it is also gratifying that we are implementing this proposal. This applies to all aspects of professionalism in primary and secondary schools, including practical and musical subjects, and there we see gains by providing better opportunities for pupils who are distinguished by musical skills. This bill also proposes that municipalities should be able to open an integrated library which can both improve the offers of libraries to school pupils and to other citizens in the municipality, if you wish, and that should of course only be where it makes sense. It is also the case that, of course, we think it should be voluntary and happen where it makes sense. For the local learning centre has an important function in schools, but if it is not possible to maintain it in schools, then we think it is beneficial that you can add it to the public libraries. With this proposal, it is also the case that you can have full or partial joint management, and that it can be assembled on one cadastre or be on both matricles. So we are actually giving the opportunity to continue to maintain both libraries and learning centres, both in the countryside and in the city, among other things. the large cities, and where, moreover, it is needed. We hope that the proposal will be able to offer even more pupils a better offer which the municipalities' libraries can offer together. By opening up opportunities for musical talent classes and integrated libraries, we strengthen conditions for Denmark's children and young people. For this reason, we support both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190450	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190458	Thank you. As a parliamentary politician, you have to have a lot of patience, because it can often take a long time before you get your things done, and we have to go back to 2013 when, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I suggested that we make an experiment with musical classes inspired by talent sports classes. Now, five years later, it has been so realized as a legislative proposal that makes the scheme permanent, and there I would like to thank the Minister for having made it possible. After all, this is on the basis of a report and an evaluation which showed that there was really a great deal of success with the scheme at school. So I can only welcome the fact that we now have the opportunity not only to create talent classes in sport but also in music. The reason why it is precisely the two forms of leisure activity is, of course, that movement and sport and music are scientifically documented to have an impact on the learning of one form or another. That's why it makes sense to create musical talent classes. But not only that. We know, of course, that there are a large number of pupils who are interested in music and who may sometimes find it difficult to cultivate their hobby and gain recognition, and by having it integrated into a school they will be recognised. They will also have a little extra time to grow it, and they will probably also be more interested in going to school because they have this thing to care about. Then perhaps it is also a break with decades of tradition of not recognising people who can do something special in Denmark. We have been afraid of this for many years. Fortunately, we are going away from that, and that does not mean that they are more than others, but there are just some students who want to unfold their talent in music. They will now have the opportunity to do so with this bill, and it is really a joyous day for me personally, for the party and, of course, for the government too. In addition, there has been a long-standing attempt: these educational learning centres and public libraries as integrated institutions, and this has been going on since 2003. It is 15 years, and when compared to the experiment with musical classes that lasted for 5 years, 15 years are many years. I do not know who was behind that proposal at the time; it may be that he is dead and gone; that is not known. But better late than never; it gives the municipalities the flexibility they need out there, and then better manage resources efficiently, and we can only support that. So unlike the previous bill, this is an excellent bill, and that makes me very happy. So, of course, we will vote yes when it comes to the time in the Chamber. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190812	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we have come to Mrs Britt Baker as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190825	Thank you. With this bill, we're dealing with a change in the primary school law. The amendment proposes that local authorities should be given the power to decide whether to set up an integrated library consisting of the teaching centre and a public library. In addition, the municipal councils will be able to decide whether the integrated library should be assembled in one location if it is considered to improve the offer to the school pupils and to the citizens of the municipalities. It is also proposed that the municipal council be given the competence to establish special talent classes in music from the nursery class to the 10th grade. Then students with musical talent can have the opportunity to combine musical education and schooling in an appropriate way. The changes which have just been examined aim to give the municipalities of the country a better opportunity to organise a flexible task solution in accordance with local needs and wishes. The Left supports the proposal, and I will inform and say from the Conservatives that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190933	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011190945	With this proposal, you can say that changes have been brought together in two different areas, which basically have no other connection than that both are changes to the primary school law. To the first, which is about the municipalities' access to the establishment of integrated libraries with a collection of one site and one joint management, I must say that we in the Enhedslist are in fact a little concerned about whether the amendment of the law could pave the way for a reduction in the number of library branches. It is also warned, at least in one of the consultation responses, that this could mean, not least, that citizens in rural areas will have poorer library access. On the other hand, we can see that in their consultation answer the Library Association considers that the proposal can provide opportunities to maintain library access and longer opening hours locally. So we really think that there may be grounds for doubt as to whether this proposal is appropriate. We have seen an unusual number of library dismantlings around the country, and we therefore have a concern that this could pave the way for it, and we think that the signals we receive from the consultation parties are different. Our reservations about the second part of the proposal, which concerns the creation of talent classes in music, are, on the other hand, somewhat greater. After all, the proposed change involves opening up special admission requirements to one of the subjects of the primary school, where admission is made conditional on the pupils having special musical conditions. It is our view in the Enhedslisten that we should have a primary school where all pupils have equal access to the school's subjects and cannot risk being met by sorting mechanisms on the basis of the pupils' special talents. It is, after all, the second subject in which we are now on the way to introducing some kind of restriction on access, and we are frankly very sceptical that this proposal should be put forward. It can be said that if there was free and open access to the talent classes, it was one thing, but it is quite clear in the bill that it should be at all classes from the nursery school to the 9th grade that there can be both special admission requirements and special admission tests. We just don't like that, that is to say, the first day you start in the nursery class, first class, you can be met by special admission tests in relation to this track. One might say: is it a great disaster that you have it? No, but we think it is a slippery slope that, as I said, another subject is restricted and can be restricted by admission requirements and admission tests, and that is why we cannot support that part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191310	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191321	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 59 arises from a decision to extend a very successful experimental scheme including: talent classes in music. This allows the municipalities to better solve the tasks resulting from the experiment until the agreement makes it permanent in 2019. Municipalities will be able to integrate learning centres and public libraries. They are also given the opportunity to create talent classes in music, and then it becomes very incredible that students are not entitled to be talents, but that they actually have to prove that they are through their personal achievements. It could be fantastic if one could assert that principle in several areas, but the trees do not grow into the sky. But all in all: there is music in bill L 59, which is why we naturally support it in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191439	Thank you. I'm here to replace Carolina Magdalene Maier. As the rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law deals with two things: to give the country's municipal councils the competence to establish integrated libraries across educational learning centres and public libraries and to give local authorities the competence to set up special talent classes in music from the nursery school to the 10th grade. We support the draft law as we believe that both elements are positive. In relation to the creation of talent classes in music, I would like to emphasise that in the alternative, we are pleased that the government recognises that the primary school, the common school of ours, can also undertake such a task. We know from experience that talent classes can contribute positively at many levels. We can see from the proposal that they have been shown to increase the pupils' desire for example. to go to school, and it can also attract students to set up these talent classes. It is therefore a good thing to give local authorities the opportunity to do so. We'd like to see more of that. We do not think that it should only be in relation to music classes we have also heard about sports classes in the past. We believe that talent is also very different, and we hope that the other creative subjects and craft trades will also fill more as talent classes, but also as mandatory subjects from 0 to 10th grade We are here in the Assembly Hall at the moment debating interventions in socially vulnerable residential areas, where in the alternative we disagree entirely with the government's obsessive grip, which has been chosen, for example. to force children into crèches, but also to expose six-year-old children to tests. As I said, we disagree very much. However, I would like to stress that efforts such as the creation of special talent classes think we can be an integration tool, because if schools located in socially vulnerable residential areas are given more opportunity to create talent classes, then they will also be able to attract other children and also children from more resourceful families to schools, and in this way, with talent classes, this can contribute positively to the proliferation of schools. I hope that the government will take these considerations into account in its integration work. Of course, all this presupposes the provision of necessary resources, and that is our only focus on the talent classes, that is to say that the other teaching in the local schools must not be affected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191753	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011191802	Thank you. The first point I would like to mention here is talent classes in music, knowing that in reality it must be stressed that the fact that we have elite sports classes and now probably also get talent classes in music is exceptions to the principle that we otherwise honour very strongly in the party I represent, the Radical Left: the principle of the undivided primary school. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say that it is difficult to say no to talent classes in music when we have taken the first step and given the opportunity to set up elite sports classes. I think that is instructive: we can see that if you take the first step, you have broken something that can lead more and more with you, and I just think that we should think about that. The second point on which the proposal is concerned is the joint management of public libraries and educational learning centres, which means that the old school libraries, which are now called educational learning centres, must be merged with the public libraries. I personally have been strongly opposed to this until I came to Grassted Municipality and saw the library, which was combined by a public library and a school library, and which had just been used to maintain the professionalism of one library and the professionalism of the other library, because they have different professional skills. It turned out that it gave far, far more synergy effect than one could imagine theoretically that the two professions complemented each other fantastically for the benefit of all users of the public library. It was also a pleasure to see older people reading the newspaper in the reading room in the library, while it buzzed with children around them. Older citizens were not sad about that. So if you maintain the professionalism of the two different types of libraries or learning centers and the library, it will be a great advantage for a lot of people. Finally, I would like to say that it is the municipal council that makes that decision, and there I would like to send a little greeting to KL and the friends there and say: note that now we are decentralizing a right of liberty to the municipalities. I think we can celebrate that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192022	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192034	Thank you. As we had to deal with these two topics, talent classes in music and integrated libraries, in the public school circle, we were presented with a catalogue of things that might be considered changing in primary school, I think I can say. We said no to something, and we said yes to something. That's the advantage of sitting in a settlement. When we said yes to these things that I want to talk about one by one, it is because the evaluations turned out to be really, really positive, and I think we should listen to that. If we start with the talent classes in music, the experiment has shown that both students, teachers and managers have experienced the musical talent classes as a success that makes the students professionally more skilled and makes them want to go to school. I think that is awesome if, from a political point of view, you can give students a greater desire to go to school. When I was on the town council in Køge and I have stopped mentioning that so many times, but right today I want to mention it I was involved in setting up such a talent class for sports out in a school. It worked excellently. There was a track with sports, and then there were two common tracks. I just want to say that those who went in the two general tracks did not want to go in the sports class, where everything was expected to be extra in terms of running and cycling and doing a lot of sports. In the same way, I am also quite convinced that if there are some students in the upcoming general track, and then there is a third class, for example, there is a musical talent class, then they do not want to spend all kinds of extra hours on music either. This does not mean that they should not also be introduced to music and also like more than today, but I think it is really great for the public schools to be able to say: let us do something extra for those students who are really passionate about something, have really committed themselves to something. Then the bill says clearly that it doesn't change the student's right to be admitted to the district school, so I'm not so worried about that part. Of course, you always have to take care of the slippery slide • the good old slippery slide argument that this is a slippery slope against demands for more talent in the admission criteria compared to in a regular school class. I just think we should take a hard arm and say: it isn't. Then there is the proposal for integrated libraries. We have certainly been working on this in the area where I come from and, contrary to what is the concern of some of the consultation answers: that it will lead to the closure of libraries; it has actually led to the rescue of libraries in the local areas, because there was a need to save money in the library area; and then it was said that the easy solution is to close down those libraries where there are not so many. It's not as durable, but it's the easy solution out locally. Now the local primary school and the local public library will have the opportunity to come together in cooperation, which hopefully will make it possible for there to be both public libraries and educational learning centres locally in the future. I think that is very, very good, and here too both students and teachers and managers have seen the scheme as a success. Then I have sent a letter to the Minister or, in fact, more of a question about whether this would affect the core of the public libraries' task or the core of the educational learning centres' task, because I was a little worried about that. But no, it has been made quite clear in the law that it does not. The objectives of the two legislations still need to be met, even if they are integrated. So we in the SF support the proposal because we believe that it will make reality better out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192406	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192415	Thank you very much. When we give schools more local freedom, yes, the initiatives and the development urge flourish. An experiment with talent classes in music gave teachers and students more professionalism and well-being; they experienced more community and more motivation, discipline and independence. Another experiment showed that integrating the educational learning centres into schools with the public libraries provides more quality and stronger library offerings with a better availability of teaching materials. It's sunshine stories, and we're gonna enjoy it in here at Christiansborg. We must listen to the citizens. They're the ones who know what works and where the shoe presses. We need to spread out the successful attempts so that more people can benefit from them. Experiments with talent classes in music and integrated libraries are now becoming permanent with the bill we are discussing today. I would like to thank the parties that support the bill. With this we give a little more power to citizens for the benefit and joy of a lot of students around the country's primary schools. As far as integrated libraries are concerned, we propose that the local council should decide locally whether this is a good idea in their own municipality. An integrated library is a fusion of the educational learning centre at the school and the local public library. It will then also be the municipal council that decides whether the new library offer should have full or partial joint management and whether the offer should be physically assembled in one site. In this way it will be a locally adapted offer that everyone in the community can use and feel ownership of. With regard to the special talent classes in music, it will also be the municipal council that decides whether it is a good idea in their municipality schools. In a special talented class, students with musical talent will be able to combine their schooling with intensive teaching and rehearsal in a musical instrument. Talent classes must run from kindergarten to 10th grade. Both the integrated libraries and the talent classes are therefore offers which the municipalities can choose to make a reality in their schools. I believe and hope that many municipalities will give schools the freedom to develop good solutions that match their pupils and local areas. We must support local involvement in schools, we must listen to the wishes of the citizens and we must strengthen the development that comes from below. And that is what we are doing with this bill. So congratulations to Alex Ahrendtsen and DF with the talent classes, and congratulations to the students. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192651	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192706	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011192734	Thank you. Now many millions of kroner are being allocated to strengthen Danish education in the approx. 45 schools with many pupils from vulnerable residential areas. However, not all the approx. 1,800 new schoolchildren starting in these schools, who benefit from this huge injection of salt, will only be those who do not have a good enough language. It is not in all families in our society that the Danish language comes naturally in with the breast milk. In fact, the figures clearly show that children in these schools read worse than their peers, even if they take into account the educational background of their parents. A few months ago, I was able to confirm these figures when a parliamentary response showed that the third generation is not doing better than the second generation immigrants. The third generation are children who have four grandparents from abroad, but two parents who were born and raised in Denmark. And that, of course, is not good enough. Those families need more support, and those children deserve something better. Today, we have already introduced language assessments for the three-year-old children. In some municipalities this is already happening at the age of two. I also remember the criticism when it was introduced, but we in the Social Democratic Party now think that it works quite well. Against this background, we can now put in extra places where the need is present, and if the bilingual children need it, the child now has to be in kindergarten and language stimulated at least 30 hours a week. It costs a great deal of tax dollars, but it is human and socio-economic the only right thing to do. With these new rules, they have to be approx. 1,800 new 0-class students on these approx. 45 schools have tested their language when they start. Fortunately, most people speak very well Danish, so they do not get access to this expensive extra education. In the course of the negotiations, we were informed that about 3-400 pupils will have this opportunity, but of course only until they no longer have the need. The vast majority, on the other hand, will lose support during the school year. But according to this assessment from the Ministry, a handful of students from each school, despite intensive Danish education, will not get enough benefit from intensive Danish education to be able to start first class and benefit from it. During the school year 2016-17, almost 1,700 pupils in all schools in the country took 0th grade. With this proposal, it is estimated that the figure will rise to about 1,900. I know that Christiansborg has a desire for young people to quickly pass through the school system, but the most important thing is that they get something out of teaching when they are there. The fact that a child is in 0th grade may be the right thing to do. It has to be it's the rating of 200 more students then now. According to the bill, children are to go to 0th grade if they cannot follow first class education with professional merit. The head of the school may, however, choose to allow the child to continue if the head of the school considers that the pupil's professional level is sufficient to begin primary education, e.g.: if a student is considered to be in a good linguistic progression, that there is parental support from home and that there is good cooperation with the school. We think this is a good policy, although at any time we prefer the child to stay one more year in kindergarten rather than go back to 0th grade. That is why I would also like to state that educators and parents should be given a better opportunity to postpone a child's school start by one year. In the view of the Social Democrats, that would be a good addition to this bill. Finally, I would like to stress that the tests in the 0th class must be carried out in a safe environment and are carried out by teaching staff, as the law says. Of course, it takes a thorough preparatory work to develop them, and here I have to admit that I have become somewhat nervous by the articles we have been able to read where a number of professionals express concern for a pressed timetable. We would, of course, like to hear the Minister's position on this. We're not gonna start this up with anything sloppy. The bill has several other essential elements. Unfortunately, I cannot go into all of them here, but I would like to add a few comments to the proposal to reduce absenteeism. After all, we know that absenteeism is one of the strongest markers of poor well-being. Of course, if children feel bad, their participation in school is also adversely affected by it, and it is a huge failure of these children. As a society, we have a responsibility to track down misfortune as early as possible. Public employees are responsible for informing the City Hall, but we can also see from the figures that, unfortunately, there are still very large differences in how this whole social follow-up works in the country's municipalities. This bill now stipulates that parents will lose the children's check for a quarter if their children have an illegal absence of more than 15%. Of course, sickness and such things do not count. And as something completely new, we are now deciding for the first time on an objective demand that the City Hall be informed by 15 per cent of its absence. A total of 21 million has been set aside. kr. For this social effort. I have serious doubts as to whether that will be enough. I have to admit that I fear that these new rules risk exposing many social problems that are currently going under radar. But that should not prevent us from supporting the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193240	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193244	At the meeting this year, the party chairman of the Social Democratic Party spoke of the fragile young people, said that she could see that more young people were missing and that it was probably because they were being tried too hard. Since then, the Social Democrats have been out to say that we must slow down the pace of young people and that we must at least abolish second-class national tests. I therefore recognise the many good intentions of better language stimulation, and I believe that the Social Democrats and the SF are in complete agreement when it comes to making special efforts in the 0th class; for the sake of the spectators I would also say that we fought that battle for a very long time in the negotiating room, but that we ended up doing different things. SF chose to say: We do not want new language samples in 0th class. Social democracy chose to say: you want to eat them. I just want to hear: does the rapporteur think that it will make children more pressured or less pressured that now in 0th grade, when you are 6 years old, you can risk getting into four language tests in one year?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193351	It all depends on how they get screwed up. It is true that we are now saying about second-class national tests: away with them! We also say, moreover, that we also want to remove the education ceiling that was adopted, and that is precisely because of what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said at this year's public meeting, and I am sure she has repeated this many times since, namely that too much pressure has been put on many of the children and young people who are growing up. I do not think there is any less pressure on children who go to school today and are behind even before they really get started. There are a lot of people sitting up in the ceiling and looking a little empty because they can't keep up, and Danish is the key to being able to keep up with all other subjects. We will of course be aware that this will not be an exam with green dew on the table, but that it will be, as the law says, integrated into the teaching. It is not something they have to do after the hour is over; it must be done in a way where it is educational employees who support the children and help the parents, and not the reverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193454	I just don't understand. After all, it is not the case that national tests are mentioned, that they should be in green dew and that this should be a very formal situation. I am therefore sure that it will also say that it must be a good educational environment that is good for the second classes. The social democracy has come to the conclusion that it is probably still pushing children too hard to give them such a national test in the second class, but think that four language tests, even when they are six years old, are a good idea. What is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193522	We should not tell each other that there is no linguistic assessment of children. It takes place both in kindergarten and at the beginning of school, and those assessments are made by people who do it in a way that does not pressure children and young people. What we are very concerned about is that these new tests will come the first immediately after the summer break, when the school starts the next month of February, and the last one before the summer break will be arranged in such a way that parents and teachers will be aware that it must support language development and that it is not something to beat people up in the head with. Now it's going to go from approx. 1,700, 0th grade, to approx. 1 900, and I do not think it is a great scandal. I believe that the 200 children who are going to go to 0th grade will experience this as a strengthening of their schooling, and not as a weakening.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193616	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193619	I'd like to continue where, sir. Jacob Mark let go. When you read consultation responses to legislative proposals, it happens that there are opposing trends. We have just seen it in a proposal we have been considering on the merger of libraries. It is quite clear here that all the school's actors from those who are in the daily work with the children, to those who run the schools and those who run the municipal school administration, advise against this and believe that it would be harmful to introduce language tests into the nursery class. Does it not impress the rapporteur that everything that is of expertise in the field, all those who know the everyday life of the school, advises against this initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193714	I do not think it is quite right to say that anyone who knows the school's everyday life advises against this. There are also a few in this Chamber who work with the school and who do not advise against it. But of course that is the way it is and that is how I think it should be for all Members of Parliament that we read the hearing answers and take an interest in what it says in them. One of the things I have noticed is that there is an uncertainty as to whether the language tests can be developed at an adequate educational level within the time frame set. And that is one of the things we will be putting the emphasis on in the future legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193750-2	Another thing I wonder about is that the Social Democratic Party can support the indirect introduction of user charges into the Danish primary school. It is the case that three language tests have been carried out and have not passed, so you can buy extra lessons. And it is so technically constructed that otherwise it would be unconstitutional that it should take place during the children's vacation. But Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is not that it is very, very questionable, partly that it introduces opportunities to dump in the nursery class and partly that students can receive extra training in return for payment in one last attempt to prevent them from dumping for the language tests? Isn't it a completely biased approach to having a free primary school offer for all children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193844-2	There is still a fully tax-financed primary school offer for all children. For us it is absolutely crucial that if any education is to be paid, it is not part of the primary school. That is also why I stress in my speech that I consider it to be the case that the primary school policy in this area is about three language tests. The last one takes place before the summer break, and if, after the test, the head of the school considers that this student does not get enough out of first class, then the starting point is that the child in question has to go 0th grade again. If there are then some parents who outside the primary school want to pay themselves to try some extra lessons on a summer holiday to dress the child so well that the child will also be able to get professional benefit from a first class, then that's fine for me. But I think it is important to maintain that it is the three tests that are crucial and that it is then that the headmaster has to make his decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193940	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011193943	I shall be very brief. It is the case today that the head of the school in dialogue with the parents can make the parents understand that the child will be best served by going one more year in the nursery class or in kindergarten before they get to school. As far as I remember, we have been informed that last year 80 children stayed in kindergarten instead of moving up to school because of the headmaster's advice to parents. It is, of course, a less stressful situation to be in if you could do it that way, both for parents and children, so I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comment on why it is not a useful way of using.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194035	As far as I have been informed, I haven't even counted them myself, so in the school year 2016-17 almost 1,700, who took 0th class over, and with this bill it is assessed that's what we were told when we negotiated that well over 1,900 plus/minus is going to go 0th grade over, so that's an increase. I think that, when we look at certain schools, which have many children from vulnerable residential areas, it turns out, even if you clean up the parents' educational background, that they read significantly worse than their peers, is reasonable to say: is there anything here that we can do better? I believe, first of all, that more people should go to kindergarten one more year, and secondaryly, that those who then start in 0th grade and cannot do enough Danish must have a proper refresher injection of intensive Danish education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194138	I do not at all disagree with the rapporteur that it is important that we do everything we can to enable children to speak Danish when they go to school. But there are also a number of years in kindergarten before they go to school, from crèche onwards, and there is also a second focus on this whole concept that we are talking about today under this bill. Everyone agrees that it is important to intervene with that language. What I am talking about is that the transition from one institution to the other institution can be made in different ways, and I am thinking of the psychology of it and not that some form of punishment is motivating. That is what is coming to the fore to ensure that things are going well with the transition from one to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194227	I agree that the starting point should, of course, be that in the transition we ensure that, for example, we ensure that we do so. do not start in 0th class if not the educators and parents and also the school feel confident that the child will actually be able to benefit from it. Now I have a son of my own in 0th grade, and I can see that some were born a year before, and some were born a year later. It may be, when you look at a chart, that it looks stupid that they were not born in the same year, but it works well socially because there are some who have made a proper professional assessment. That is also why I believe it will strengthen this initiative if, in addition to it, parents and educators are given the opportunity to expose school to far more children. There I think we have been a little too stressed in our insistence that children should start the year of their 6th birthday.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194319	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mattias Tesfaye You're welcome. ) The next in line is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194331	Thank you, President. The bill may well be called symptom treatment, although it is a good form of symptom treatment. The right thing would be to put a plug in the influx and then increase the repatriations, but as it is not part of the bill, of course we support this, as we are part of an agreement. It is an agreement that applies to both primary and free schools. In short, it is the excellent idea to introduce language tests from the 0th class, and it is only for students where more than 30%. of them live in ghettos, i.e. is on the list of socially vulnerable residential areas. It is also quite excellent that during the 0th class you are subjected to three language tests. If you pass the first, you will of course not have to move on to the second, but if you do not pass the second, you will have to move on to the third and so on. Then, of course, you also have a fourth option, namely during the summer holidays, as an extra help to parents, and there you must of course help to pay, that goes without saying, when you have received the first three for free. When you have received language help, when you have received language assessments during the 0th grade, it is reasonable that parents have an opportunity to do so voluntarily and that you ask them to pay. And then you have to go back, if you do not pass the fourth language test and do not get through the fifth needle eye, which is that, in exceptional cases, the headmaster can say that the pupil still has to continue in the first class. So there are actually five needle eyes. The estimate, the assessment, from the Ministry is that it will mean that approx. 180 students are going to go back. We will not know if it will last for a few years when it will all have to be evaluated. The good thing about this bill is that it also applies to refugee children from 1st to 9th grade, i.e. the children who receive Danish as a foreign language or go into reception classes or are integrated and integrated into the class and receive language help. When the maximum of two years is over, they're gonna go through these language tests themselves, so there's that parallelity, and that's a good thing. For it would not have been very clever if Ahmed, who is a third generation immigrant born and raised in Denmark, and comes in 0th grade, had to pass the language tests, and that Ahmed's parents saw that Mohammed, who has just arrived in the third grade, could go straight into a class without having to go through the same language tests with much worse Danish in the bag. So there's that parallelity, and we're really happy with that. All in all, this is helping the students, it's helping the parents, and it's helping the school manager who has the state in his back so he doesn't have to stand alone with it. Then sanctions will also be introduced against schools that deliver poor results or poor well-being, and this is either by instructions or ultimately, after a long process, decommissioning. And we think it is excellent that it is now the Minister who is taking over that opportunity, instead of the municipalities, and the same will apply to youth education institutions, but with the more mild form, namely that they are prevented from taking up. Then the proposal also provides for the possibility of stopping the payment of children's checks and allowances to parents whose children have an illegal 15 per cent absence. or above within a quarter. And that's excellent. It is then the head of the school who must inform the municipal council and then decide to stop it. One can of course be concerned about whether the whole notification will be delayed or delayed, and we would just like to ask the Minister how she will guarantee that this procedure will not be delayed and that the time horizon will not be exceeded, as it is the child's best interests that are at the forefront. Another question that I have not really been able to find answers to in the notes on the law is, of course, due to myself, because I am a little in doubt about what is happening to schools that have departments. Does the law apply to matricles or does it apply to the institution? One could easily imagine that a school with many departments could twist around this 30-percent rule, so you weren't part of it. But I would like to ask if the Minister had the opportunity to answer whether the law applies to institutions or cadastrals, i.e. whether schools with several departments can get out of their way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194823	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194827	Thank you. I guess we'll never agree that it's a good idea to do more tests for kids in the 0th grade. I do not think that is what the rapporteur thinks. But I'd like to ask you something else. Can we then agree that it is a better idea to put in place the language stimulation that is given throughout Denmark, exactly in the case of the children we know have language problems than it is to do this unconscious test of children in some exposed areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194859	No, not quite, because we know that the more children who come from socially disadvantaged areas with many immigrant backgrounds, the worse their Danish. We have reports on this, and that is why we are intervening in language tests, which must be seen as helping. It's an aid to the child, so we'll see it much earlier than we do today. We also know that in some cases third-generation children read worse, speak worse Danish, and it is especially children who come from these socially burdened residential areas with parents from Middle Eastern countries and cultures.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011194945-2	Well, we agree that we need to take extra action early on for the children who have problems with the Danish. But what puzzles me is that during the negotiations I was given an answer to a question and the rapporteur also knows that we know exactly which children have linguistic problems, because we are actually already assessing them in the daily offers. But they are not dealt with; they are not dealt with by all those we know have linguistic problems. You could have done that. This could have been chosen, that is to say, to say that all those who have linguistic problems must have additional language stimulation. The model chosen by the rapporteur's party and the conciliation circle is a model in which children are re-tested only from vulnerable residential areas, although we know that some others had language problems in the day institutions. Firstly, is it not a little ineffective and, secondly, a little stupid if we really want to intervene with language help for those who have the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195035	For 30 years, after all, we have tried the model that the SF and the Radical Left and the Social Democrats have been trying to achieve for many years, and the Enhedslisten also for that matter. It hasn't worked. On the contrary, the linguistic skills of the third generation are worse. So now we take the spoon in the other hand. Now we're introducing this tool and this help for the school leaders, for the children and for the parents, and it's language tests that are an effective tool for determining where you stand. And then, when we know it, we can make a determined effort with help, with support both inside and outside the class. And that's what this is all about. After all, it is the child that is at the centre here, not an ideology.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195119	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195121	Thank you. Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen to provoke me today, I've been controlling myself so much all day. However, the rapporteur mentioned a number of parties, including the Radical Left, with the words that for many years we have failed to ensure that these things were done. I should just like to point out, for the sake of history, that from November 2001 to today's date minus 31⁄2 years under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Radical Left has had no influence on this area. It's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen and the other civil parties responsible for what has happened since 2001. It's just for the record.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195216	In historical terms, it has been the case that the agreements on education policy have been concluded, among other things. with the Radical Left, where the Danish People's Party has tried to change the agenda. We have only succeeded in doing so in recent years, among others. because we have got a minister and it is then the current Minister of Education who has a good knowledge of the area and what needs to be done. What matters to us is that things work. With what has been done in all these years, the education sector has been populated with people who have the same political sense as among other things. Mrs Marianne Jelved, we have not succeeded in changing the language skills of the second and third generation students, on the contrary. What has been recommended has not worked. What has been recommended in the sector has not worked. Now we'll take the spoon in the other hand, and then we'll hopefully have these more effective tools. And I believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195319-2	Then there's a little extra chapter on the storywriting for mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's sake and for Denmark's sake: From 2002 to 2011, SF and Radical Left were not part of the school settlement. We did not do so until we entered Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government. So it has again ended with the accusation that there are some parties of a special nature that are not suitable for educational purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195347-2	One is parties, and another is the influence one has in certain sectors. And it is a well-known fact that the domination of the education sector has come from the left and the Radical Left. It shows all the measurements, and it also shows the experience with which things have been dealt with. And there I would just quietly say that the Danish People's Party has put a different line. That is consistent, and it is from the outset. This has not been done all these years, and that is why we are dealing with these problems. We're trying to sweep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195424	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Britt Baker as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195435	This bill is based on a major agreement on combating parallel societies. The draft law specifically provides for the introduction of language tests in the kindergarten class to ensure that all children are able to participate in the social and professional community at school. Being able to speak Danish is an important prerequisite for getting through school, to get into the labour market and to be integrated into Danish society at all. That is why we propose to introduce language tests for children from the nursery school into schools with a high proportion of children from vulnerable areas. With this bill we will also introduce a mandatory language test for pupils in the 1st-9th class who receive Danish as a second language. In this way, there is greater certainty that pupils will get better benefit from the teaching, get better through school and into the labour market and become part of the working community. It is also proposed that increased penalties be introduced for public schools which continue to deliver poor results and for youth education institutions where the quality of education and training is too poor or inadequate. The Left supports this bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195604	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195608	With this proposal, it is intended that the Minister of Education can interfere almost in the detail of the individual primary school. Today, according to the law, the Minister can require a municipal council to draw up a plan of action, but now it becomes the case that the Minister also has the power to approve the action plan, to indicate certain initiatives to be implemented, and ultimately to close a primary school over the head of the school board and over the head of the municipal council. Is it good Left policy that in this way municipal autonomy should be eliminated to such an extent in relation to primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195700	Well, when we start with this bill, it's just to try something new. The efforts we have made so far have not worked, and that is why we need to take new initiatives. Therefore, we need to help children to have a better life, to get better through school, to get into the labour market and to become part of the Danish culture. And then we'll use new methods. That's because we're actually gonna try to do something different and try to do something where there's a chance that it works. However, there are still powers for the individual school, and there are still powers for the individual management a long way along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195743	However, the rapporteur hardly escapes the idea of setting up a completely different type of retail management in the field of school and an unusual disregard for the competence which otherwise lies in the municipalities. I would like to ask you something similar in relation to the free schools. It is usually the case that the Left takes the view that there should be quite a free framework in the free schools. And that is why it is among other things. so that the free schools cannot be required to carry out the national tests. Now, with this bill, it is being proposed to detail also in the field of open school, so that free schools, which are otherwise exempt from national tests, are required to carry out language tests in kindergarten classes. Is this again an expression of the fact that the Left no longer respects the freedom of the free schools, but wants to regulate matters in detail as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195842	But we simply have different interpretations of what retail regulation is. I don't think this is retail regulation. In fact, I think it is an extensive helping hand for those children who find it much harder to speak the Danish language, who find it much harder to become part of the Danish culture. I don't want this to be seen as a punishment, I want it to be seen as a help. We are doing something different, and we are doing it because what we have done so far has not worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195911	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011195914	Thank you. In SF we think it is a very good idea to engage with additional language stimulation, just as we have done in the day offers, and give extra crowns and ears to more teachers for the children that we know have linguistic problems. It is an effort that I think is needed and I think it can also help to lift some of the children who have linguistic problems. What worries me is the introduction of language tests for six-year-old children. I know that several of the rapporteurs of the Left have been out sharing my concern that children and young people are being pushed too much. So I just want to hear: since it's already the case today that 1,700 kids go around in 0th grade and that with these language tests it's only gonna be 1,900 kids, wouldn't it be a good idea to set those special bets in motion out there and then drop the test element so that the kids calm down while we put in extra?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200006	I actually share Mr. Jacob Marks and SF's considerations that we should be careful how much we are pushing. I fully agree with the questioner on this. I have a three-year-old boy of my own. At the age of three in kindergarten, he has been language tested as part of going to an institution, and I was very happy that he was tested language. I was very pleased that as a parent I was told where his strengths and weaknesses were, so I could help put in. I actually didn't see it as a punishment, and the way it was done, I'd just like to say that he didn't see it as a punishment either. He didn't see it as a test either. On the contrary, he came home and told me a lot of enthusiasm about how the talented educators who know how to do this had played this test into him. And that's the way it's supposed to be going on out there, because I'd be very sorry if these kids saw it as a stressful moment. That is absolutely not the intention. Conversely, I would also be very sorry if we again and again, year after year, as Parliament does nothing to help these children learn the Danish language, and that is actually what we are trying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200112	In the SF we have actually been involved in introducing the language assessment that the rapporteur's child has been through, and that is because it is different from the language tests that are adopted here. It is precisely a language assessment in a safe environment with some educators. I know it is said that words do not mean much, but I think there is a huge difference between whether we are talking about a language assessment or a language screening and then a language test, even four of them. Why didn't they say: we set the stakes in motion, we keep an eye on the kids, we do language assessments and we use the ones we already have from kindergarten, and then we drop these tests? It was actually our bid for a compromise when we negotiated this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200152	Now I was not in the negotiations, so I do not know the semantic discussion that has been going on in the course of the negotiations. What is important to me is how it's going to work out there, and of course we have to follow that closely. We need to make sure this is a helping hand. We need to be sure that children do not feel stressed, but that they feel helped. We also need to be sure that the parents know exactly what to support the children in this. In fact, I am genuinely concerned that these children are making even better progress, that they are getting even better into school, that they are making even better progress in society and further into the labour market. That is what worries me; that is what I am concerned about. And then let's evaluate it together continuously, so we make sure it has the effect that I think we're all preoccupied with it should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200235	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200244	After all, the draft law here is one in a series which together constitutes the implementation of the so-called parallel social agreements. Like the other agreements, the legislative recommendations are based on freedom, legal certainty and equality, and a large number of proposals are being put forward which are in the very opposite direction. I find it very questionable that the legislative proposal aims to implement legislative changes which lay down specific rules for certain groups of pupils, simply because they go to schools with more than 30%. pupils resident in vulnerable residential areas. In this way, the bill provides for a marked discrimination against a large group of pupils in our primary school, who are put on anything but equal and who have already been mentioned by several people in the debate, is subjected to quite unreasonable pressure right from the start when they start their schooling. It is a pressure which, in the view of Enhedslisten, will be completely contrary to its intention. The proposal to introduce three or four language tests of pupils in kindergarten classes in schools appears to be an extremely bad idea when you listen to those who have daily responsibility for our schools and are very close to school life. The Children's and Culture Managers' Association, which is the organisation for all the managers of the municipal school administrations, warns in their hearing response against the new mandatory language tests, which they directly assess will have a significant negative effect. And the Children's and Culture Managers Association points out how forcing students to go to kindergarten can lead to large age differences that can have major social and well-being consequences. And they stress that it seems completely incomprehensible that decisions which can have such decisive consequences for the individual child are taken not on the basis of a general assessment of the pupil's language level, but on the basis of the residence of the entire student group as a decisive criterion. It is, quite rightly, I think, characterised by the Children's and Culture Managers' Association as discrimination against pupils. A similar criticism can be found in the consultations from the School Leader Association and the Danish Teacher Association. The school leaders see in the proposal a breach of fundamental principles in Danish school tradition. They point out that the proposal takes no account at all of the importance of language stimulation and development that takes place by being with peers and friends. And the Danish Teacher's Association considers that the proposal is detrimental to the teachers' work in creating quality in teaching and building a trusting collaboration with the parents. Quite grotesquely, I think the proposal will be when it is proposed that parents of children in the nursery school who have failed the first three language tests can buy themselves for extra lessons during the summer holidays. Pay 500 kr. a week, and then we'll help your child through so she doesn't fail in kindergarten class, but can move on to first class. And as the dialogue under Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's presentation, it is quite true that it is technically outside the primary school, but there is, however, a very close link between the language tests in the primary school and the introduction of a participation fee, which I find extremely worrying and do not understand at all that the parties will move into. There is therefore, in general, a lack of sensitivity towards those who know the school very well, a lack of sensitivity which also goes through in relation to the intervention against freedom of the free schools, a lack of sensitivity to the serious consequences of imposing financial sanctions on parents. After all, the proposal not only requires parents to pay for extra language training, but also for them to be able to pay through the withdrawal of child and youth benefits if their children have an excessive absence. We find the proposal here deeply, deeply problematic. We find it problematic that people are prepared to close primary schools over the heads of both parents' boards and municipal councils. All in all, in our view, this is a proposal that is, first and foremost, driven by signal policy, but which, unfortunately, is far from being symbolic, but will have serious negative consequences for many pupils and too many schools. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200802	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011200812	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 60 is, after all, an expiry of the government's initiative to combat parallel societies from March this year and of the political agreements that were subsequently concluded. In the field of education, it concerns the agreement of 9 May between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. Lack of language skills when schooling begins is an independent problem. As a result, the individual child has difficulty keeping up with the school professionally, and the linguistic difficulties will typically persecute the child for the rest of his life. They achieve lower grades and lower life opportunities as a result of poor school performance. It is, of course, in itself a right to react politically, because it means that, to put it bluntly, the Danish Parliament is correcting certain conditions which threaten the well-being of the individual, but at the same time bad language skills also affect the school as an institution, and this has been a little overlooked in the debate here. The progression in classes is slowing down and you never reach the level reached in a class where there are no or few who have language difficulties. If there are more than 15%. children of non-western immigrants in a school class, everyone, and I repeat everyone, not just the 15%, receives a lower life pay. A recent study from the think tank Kraka and Deloitte showed this. So if we tolerate the state of things right now, the majority behind the agreement would also tolerate thousands of children who actually speak Danish fluently being placed in a situation that made them poorer than children from well-functioning classes. We cannot, of course, be a part of this, so that is why the L 60 bill. The other elements of the draft law are a consequence of the main objective I have examined. In the first year of the child, it is of course the parents who have full responsibility for the child being put on the right course. It's only a joke when you say you have to choose your parents carefully. That's not how it really works. In Denmark, the right course for a child is that this child speaks Danish fluently, no matter what family background the child grows up in. There is very solid research evidence for this. Therefore, parents must have a financial incentive not to lose their parental responsibility. The last elements of the bill are then about what to do with schools that do not work. The municipalities will have better opportunities to follow up on schools that are developing badly in time, and if a school is completely dysfunctional, it is clear that it should close down, and that is something that we can now have the opportunity to do. It has been said several times that there have been other plans that should lead the parallel lines onto the same track, but this is the best and most thought-out plan to date, and that is why of course the draft law has LA's warm support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201157	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201201	It was actually the Liberal Alliance that was out presenting this proposal for the first time. So congratulations to the Liberal Alliance for a political victory! When it was presented, it was Mrs Laura Lindahl who was out presenting it. She said that in order to solve the problems of integration, it was time to put in place stop tests. At that time, Laura Lindahl was open to failing 0th grade several times. It ended up once, you know, walking in one time. Now it is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and not the Minister who is here. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur how many times we have to go over. How many times, if the Liberal Alliance had power as they have been watching, would it be possible to fail 0th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201245	It is clear that there must be some limit to how many times you can go about it, because it would seem strange if the children of the 0th class were to be shaved or the like. So there has to be a limit of some kind. There have then been some discussions, and then we have ended up where we have ended up, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201304	There must be a limit to how many times you can go over, says the rapporteur. I am very pleased about that is the rapporteur's recognition. The rapporteur does not provide a specific figure. So I just want to hear the reflection, because I know the rapporteur is good at reflecting: if you send children, who are 6, 7 or 8 years old, to fail tests on several occasions, let them fail several times, and let them go over several times in new classes, does the rapporteur think that this could have consequences for the well-being of these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201335	It also has enormous consequences for the child's well-being not being able to Danish and then go to primary school. So this is a dilemma in any case. What I am hoping for is that the whole package, that is, with what is of sanctions against parents, will also get and should we say it plainly • some irresponsible parents to wake up at a very, much earlier time and make them understand that they must of course make sure, from the child's point of view, that it can speak the language that is the official language in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201413	Thank you to the rapporteur. It does not appear that the alternative rapporteur is in the Chamber. So we move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201423	Thank you. In this context, I am also speaking on behalf of the Alternative, so it is both on behalf of the Alternative and on behalf of the Radical Left that I am speaking now. We fully agree that we need to do something about language development for the children we are talking about here, namely those children who have yet to be able to make sufficient use of the Danish language. We are very prepared to do so if we could have a dialogue on this. However, a resolution has been proposed which we believe contains a number of tools which are counterproductive to what we would like to do. It is proposed here, on the one hand, to have a language test of children at 5-6 years of age and, on the other hand, to be able to take the children's check from parents if the children do not participate in the education and, on the other hand, to impose state sanctions on primary and secondary education, which may ultimately result in schools and educational institutions being closed down. The alternative and radical left are actually quite opposed to the draft law, but we are in favour of finding solutions to the problem. We are opposed to this bill, because it may well have the right intentions, namely to ensure the linguistic development of particularly vulnerable children and to ensure good quality in primary and secondary education, but the draft law is using the wrong means, and this will very likely lead to a number of unfortunate consequences. I would venture to claim that the draft law is both unethical, discriminatory and centralistic, and it is not concepts that promote what we want. It is unethical because it exposes young children to testing and the risk of being punished by having to change the kindergarten class if they do not pass. That is, of course, the whole way to organise it. This is discriminatory because only those schools which have a high proportion of children from socially vulnerable residential areas are affected. And it is centralistic because it breaks with Denmark's traditions that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the primary school, and not the state. That is why, in our opinion, it is actually wrong for the Minister, with this bill, to try to put in place the possibility of being able to close down a primary school. When I think about it, I really think it's very uncomfortable. We didn't have to do it that way. That's my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201643	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011201654	In Denmark we are pushing children more and more; that is my very clear view. We're in a hurry to speed them up. Historically, they come faster from crèche to kindergarten now than they have before; they come faster from kindergarten to school now than they have before, because there is money to be picked up by pressing them quickly. When they go to primary school, they have to be tested 10 times, and for those tests you can test twice, and it can then be 30 times in primary school. I don't think it's a coincidence when more children experience anxiety, more children suffer depression. I don't think it's a coincidence when more kids are insecure. Nor do I think it is a coincidence when more children experience what is called school migration, namely that they really want to go to school, but they cannot do so because they cannot get themselves out of bed and into the school they go to. There is a wise person, even wiser than me, who has given these children a name, namely glass children, because they are transparent and joyless. Not all children are like this, I agree, but I see a tendency, and I think there is a tendency for these glass children to become more and more of them, who are insecure and tired of being tested and who do not find the same joy in going to school as children have had in the past. And if you look at the national test in the second grade, which is really perhaps the closest we get to these language tests, then it's proven that there are many children who are seriously miserable with these tests. There are scientists who have stood in here in the Landstingshall and told that there are examples of children crying and being held at home because they do not want up to those tests. It's not good for the kids. Now you introduce a stop test or a language test, and it's not just one, it's two if they don't make it, and it's not just two, it can be three, it's not just three, it can be four, and then you can almost have a fifth attempt. I just want to say that these are six-year-old children, and I do not think that we will get fewer glass children from having six-year-old children put into trial-like situations that will determine whether they will be allowed to continue with their classmates. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democratic Party, which unfortunately has been included in the agreement, said that it is just an increase from 1,700 to 1,900 children who go about it is no scandal. But it is not only the fact that there are more people going around, it is also the fact that we are once again throwing a new test into our school system and even earlier than before. The Minister of Education has said on several occasions that a hard rear edge is needed to solve this problem. I don't think there's a need for tough rear edges with six-year-old kids. Skillful adults are needed; time is needed for those children who clearly have challenges; confidence in leaders is needed; and early efforts are needed. And they're on it. We have combined language assessments of children in kindergarten. We know exactly who has linguistic challenges. I asked that during the negotiations. But instead of doing something for all those that we know have linguistic challenges and spending the money on them in the 0th grade, we start testing again, but only in some vulnerable residential areas, with these language tests. Why not intervene where we know the problems are? And why ignore both the Social Democracy, the government and the Danish People's Party both BUPL, DLF, the Children's Council, the heads of children and culture, the school leaders who say this is bad for the children and who say that it is stigmatizing, stressful, pressing for the children and really stupid? I don't understand. I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party, with which we negotiated for a long time and which has said that they will be the prime minister of the children after an election, and which has said that we stress children and young people too much, can help to introduce four language tests for some of those I call glass children already in the 0th grade. And I do not understand that the government that has changing ministers saying that we are stressful and pushing children too much, so in another context only introduces stop or language tests for six-year-old children. We want this to be abolished, and we want it to be abolished after a choice, and we want to work for it. And we believe that it can be done by a narrowly possible majority. It has been introduced by a majority bypassing conciliation, which is why we can also abolish it again as soon as there is a red majority bypassing conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202142	Thank you. I think I will start by saying that if there is something that is stressful and pressing for a child, then it is absolutely impossible to keep up with the teaching, then going in a class where those who are in class have some preschool skills, which may be 2 years better than those you have 2 years of age is a lot for children starting at school. These are some of the children we are looking at here who are so far behind in their preschool skills. These are some of the same children who go all the way through the Danish primary school and go out with a character cut that is far below the average far below. They start with such a bad language, a vocabulary, an understanding of the language that they are not able to participate in teaching on equal terms with their classmates, and this is a situation that has been going on for not 1 year or 2 years, but rather for 10, 20, 30 years. So those who are worried about whether there are some children here who are being stressed or pressed, I would just like to remind you of the situation that children have been put in in these areas year after year for so many years. And there have been good adults, and there has been freedom, and there has been commitment, and there have been good wills, but it has just not been resolved. It's not well, but back to the playout here. In March of this year, we presented the playout "One Denmark without a Parallel Society" • no ghettos in 2030 • and the playout consists of a number of initiatives targeted at the places in Denmark where parallel societies are most common. The whole exercise actually resulted from a discussion we had on education, in which I suggested that we proceed in a more holistic way. And so we did. We made a parallel society package which deals with a number of different areas, and we presented it in Mjølnerparken, which is a place where I myself have come very much, namely because my own son has gone to the crèche there. After we presented the show, I went to the crèche to greet some of the educators who still remember me from then on, and it was a happy reunion, and we had a good talk. But the leader over there was a little bit concerned about it, because she thought it was a little weird that such a minister came into the crèche, and I quite understand that. I understand that many of the people who live in these areas are thinking: what kind of people come in here and want us something? But the challenge is that if we do not want them something, if we do not put in here, things will just go on as they are, and we simply cannot be familiar with that. We must take initiatives in those areas where previous efforts have not been made. We must prevent and break down parallel societies, and we must do so in a way that does not undermine the rights and freedoms we have in Denmark at the same time. It is a difficult balancing process, and it takes a very precise effort to ensure that we do not bother all Danes throughout Denmark, but put in the places where the problems are. And it is precisely this precise and determined effort that we are making possible with the initiatives in the legislative proposal we are discussing today. I would like to thank the parties that support this bill, which translates a number of initiatives from the agreement to combat parallel societies. Being able to speak a good Danish is an extremely important key to integration; it is an obvious prerequisite for managing in school, both professionally and socially. Early language learning must take place in the home, and it is the parents' responsibility that the child's Danish is sufficient before school starts. However, the proportion of weak second-class readers is greater in primary schools with more than 30%. pupils from vulnerable residential areas, if compared with other primary schools, and this also applies, even if the parents' educational background is taken into account. This will cause major problems in the future, both for the whole of society, but most importantly for each of these children, who are not doing well in school and who are already behind on points from the nursery class. We have to do something about that. That is why this bill proposes to introduce language tests in nursery schools with a high proportion of children from vulnerable residential areas. If a student does not finally pass the test, the child must change the kindergarten class, but it must be the case that the first-class start can only be postponed once. In addition to the language tests, there is also intensive language stimulation for the children who perform the initial test at the start of the nursery class poorly. Such a course can help the child to get a better language, but I would like to stress that the main responsibility will always lie with the parents. It is and remains the parents' job to ensure that their children are ready to start school, and it also involves a good and age-matching language. The school's job is to teach the children the subjects, but it is a prerequisite that the spoken language is taught at home. It is precisely the responsibility of the parents that is at the heart. It is and remains mother and father who are responsible for their children, for having a good and solid breakfast, for coming up in the morning, and not least for having their school. Unfortunately, there are cases where parents fail to fulfil that responsibility, and with the bill we want to strengthen parental responsibility and make it possible to include the children's check in families where children do not participate in primary school education. With the bill we will also introduce a mandatory language test for pupils in the 1st to 9th grade who receive Danish as a second language. This should give the student a guarantee that they get a good benefit from the teaching. Furthermore, we will strengthen sanctions both against primary and secondary schools if they repeatedly deliver poor results. In the end, it must be possible to close down a school or institution if they are not able to raise the quality. When you choose to move to Denmark, you as parents have a responsibility for your children learning Danish before they start school. And you can see that in families where you speak Danish, the children do better. It is important that all children, regardless of their background, make the best of their schooling, and we are well on the way to that with the efforts made in this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202834	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202845	The minister says trust hasn't worked. I agree that we have made a number of mistakes when it comes to integration, but I am not sure when it comes to the 0th class task that trust has not worked. The Ministry's own annexes show that 1,700 are already going around today and that there is a higher representation of them with foreign origin. With these language tests, it's gonna be 1,900. It is not a significant difference, and I wonder if the extra ones had been discovered when you put in extra language stimulation? It's just to attack the fact that trust hasn't worked. I don't believe it. Actually, I think the headmasters can do their job. I want to ask you something. We know exactly what children have language problems in Denmark, because we have together introduced language assessments in daily offers. In the course of the negotiations, I suggested that all the children we know have language problems, we should set something in motion extra with the funds that have been set aside. The government doesn't want that model. You'd rather introduce these language tests... why?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011202945	First of all, I would like to say that the purpose here is not to change the children. The purpose is that they should learn Danish. And when I say that the measures that have been taken have not solved the problems, it is all the measures that have been taken, the sum of all the measures, the sum of all the commitment, all the good will, mother tongue teaching in all the municipalities. On the contrary, we can see, for example, if we do. Looking at the asylum and migrant group, many of which live in these residential areas, they do relatively less well in Denmark with the education system we have than in many of the countries with which we compare themselves. So this whole illusion that we can solve it with what we've done, we're just gonna have to end it. As for the fact that we now know who the children are, I would say that it is not enough to know who they are. We must take action, and we must also involve the parents. We can't do this without the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203048	We agree that we have not done well enough. We agree that we need to put in extra. That's why I'm surprised that the government is now buying into this model of language tests in a few areas. After this action, there will still be lots of children who have received language assessments showing that they do not have a good language and are not being offered this extra language stimulation. Why was it so important for the government to introduce language tests that one would rather have that model than make an extra effort for all the children who have already been rated and know have language problems? Then you would really have gotten to the root of the nettle instead of just putting in samples in places where you don't know if there are problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203134	Thank you. We start with language tests, exactly where the problems are worst. I think that's a really good place to start. Why don't we just smear out a thin layer everywhere in the country and make an extra effort? But the extra effort that has been made for many years has not worked. There are many municipalities which redistribute, for example, so that schools that have many children who do badly receive much more resources. But this does not necessarily result in better results. In any case, when we look at some groups, we see that the results are moving too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203205	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203209	I would like to say that we may sometimes have doubts as to whether this is the same legislative proposal we are discussing. I mean, kindergarten students in schools, where more than 30%. of the pupils living in a residential area which has been on the list, etc., must pass a mandatory language test. Why is it that it is your postal code address that makes you have to go to a language test? Everyone will then have to go to a language test when they come from such a residential area. Isn't that so? We often disagree, but I think that the Minister often goes in with a professional approach to the way we assess education and training needs. Why, in the name of heaven, is it not an assessment that must be made in relation to the language of the individual child, no matter where the child goes to school, but that living in a particular residential area means that specific linguistic efforts must be made? Yes, I simply think it is unprofessional and unspeakable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203320	I am going into this with my professional and objective approach, just as I am doing everywhere else, and I am doing it here in an area where I know I am getting headwind, but I am doing so precisely because we have failed and because I know that language spoken at home, for example, is a crucial factor in how well children are doing in school and in life. When we put into special residential areas, it's also because we can see a connection between these residential areas and the fact that there is a high incidence of students who are doing badly. Then there may also be a reason to say that it's an entire school that's starting this project. Then it's common to all the students, and then it's something you can talk about and you get involved in together. So can the parents. I think that is a good approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203412	Now I do not believe that it is a good solution to have four language tests during the child's first school year, but if you think that it is so important for raising children's languages and I agree that we should try to find the best solutions to raise children's languages • How can you say that they do not live in a exposed residential area? Yes, I simply cannot understand it and, in my view, the Minister has come to the point where the Minister has failed the factual and professional approach to it and is the victim of a purely symbolic policy, rather than sticking to the fact that when we have to assess the educational needs of children, it has to be done in concrete terms in relation to the individual child. Then it should not be such a mass construction that is based on children's housing conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203511	It is nice of the rapporteur to want to relieve me of responsibility, but there is absolutely no reason for that. Because I've taken the initiative on this myself. That is why I am happy to be there for it. We start by looking at these residential areas, but if it works well, and if we get a good result out of it, which will be different from all sorts of other gripes that you have made in this area, then I would suggest that you spread it. It would be obvious, if you can see over the years, that this has a positive effect. So that would be obvious. So for the whole thing, it's a shame for the students with a test: It's a shame for these students that they don't know Danish. It's much more a pity for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203545	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203550	I would like to start by saying that I was pleased with the Minister's last reply, which was that if this bill turns out to be a success, it would be interesting, according to the government, to look at, if not to spread it further. What I think is at least the biggest problem in this bill is that there are no more children benefiting from intensive language stimulation. But I also know that there is an economic discussion here, because this is not cheap. So let us start by welcoming the fact that the glass is half-filled. But the reason I took the floor was to hear the Minister's reply to an article that has been at Folkeskolen.dk and Svidenskab.dk, which is about TrygFonden's Children's Research Centre saying that there is too little time to develop these language tests. And that is, I understand, otherwise some internationally recognised researchers who have their research printed on language tests for young children in scientific journals all over the globe, so we would like to have them on board. Should we be nervous?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203651	The development of these language tests is under tremendous pressure. This is a controversial area which has been set in motion here, and I am therefore very pleased that there are both some who have taken the lead here and that there are also schools which are already joining the first year. But it is clear that you also need to use the first year to learn how to knit these tests together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203720	Thank you for your answer. The idea is that this summer we will be ready at these 45 schools, primary schools and free schools. Are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203732	Yeah, I think we are. But I could also imagine that when you've been through the year 1 you've learned something and maybe you're making some adjustments. You can imagine that. I don't know. But it will be obvious, when you start with a new method, that you do it in a way that you can make adjustments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203751	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203757	Thank you. In order to encourage the viewers who may be following what is going on here, I would point out that the Radical Left is actually involved in some of this great project of parallel societies and ghetto plans, considering that it is good to go to the root. Therefore, together with the bourgeois government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and therefore also the Radical Left, we are helping to prevent and break down parallel societies by changing entire residential areas. Then the Minister says: you must learn Danish. Everyone agrees that they must learn Danish. That is why we are also included in another proposal, together with the government, the Social Democrats and the SF, that of a better distribution of children in the day institutions. It's actually going to the root too. We expect a great deal of this, and I would just like to say as an encouragement that, although we are against some of what is happening here, we are therefore to go to the root and try to change in a way that leads to improvement. This means that there must be a better distribution of children in the day institutions. 30% may be taken up from vulnerable residential areas, in some places 35%, but 30-35 per cent. of children must come from vulnerable residential areas into so-called ordinary institutions, if I may use that term. This will, of course, give rise to a completely different situation in terms of language development as well. We expect a great deal of this, and I would ask the Minister to consider whether there is no reason to be happy about going to the root.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011203948	I am certainly pleased that the Radicals are joining us here and are part of some of the agreements in the parallel society package. So I'd like to credit for that. When it comes to the language skills of the children, you can benefit from going to a good nursery or kindergarten, but the children learn the spoken language primarily at home. They do. They don't learn it from another child who also has a bad vocabulary. It may also be Danish children who have no big vocabulary down in the sandbox. They learn it from their parents. They learn when their parents look them right in the eye, sing to them, talk to them, play with them. The fact that there are families where you don't talk to your children, and they start at school and don't have a functional Danish is what is the big problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204041	I fully agree with the Minister on that. That is also why I am saying that if you could now go to the root instead of changing something in the last kindergarten year, before going to school, you could start from the very beginning in the children's institutions and ensure that there is a majority of Danish children in the individual children's institutions. It is, of course, the same problem, whether parents come from situations where they are not as good with the language as parents who are good with the language. It is a whole new dimension that the Minister is talking about here. We are talking about: what does it mean to go to children's institutions? That is what the whole discussion has been about today, and not how the parents are arranged. Therefore, it must be an advantage that Danish children go along with the children who come from vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204144	There we are in complete disagreement, because parents play an absolutely crucial role in language tests. It's not just a test, it's a process where parents need to bring home a language package so they can talk to their children so they can take responsibility so they can play so they can sing so they can be with their children and help them learn Danish. That is precisely a crucial part of the proposal we are putting forward here. And it's really nice for children to have Danish friends, but it's not a kindergarten child's responsibility to learn another kindergarten child Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204217	I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181011204231	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 12 October 2018, at 12:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
