ParlaMint-DK_20180405100031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 216 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Fertilizers in Agriculture and on Plant Covers and various other laws. Karin Nødgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on children and young people under 18 years of self-payment for stays at places of residence). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100105	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100152	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100238	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100325	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100419	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100438	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100546	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100615	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100635	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour of 21 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of DF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100725	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Hey! I will take a little break before the first reading, so that those Members who do not need to be present have the opportunity to go out so that we can have some peace in the Chamber before we start the first reading. Let's do it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100841	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405100854	Thank you, President. It is a legislative proposal that contains very good measures to prevent financial crime and to ensure better framework conditions for companies, as well as an approach on capital requirements for public limited companies, which we are a little concerned about. Let me start with the positive. It is absolutely crucial that the authorities know who actually owns the companies in Denmark. It is an important protection against organised crime, money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion. Unfortunately, it has been found that a number of companies do not register the real owners, although it has been a legal requirement since 2017. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is absolutely necessary to make the registration of real owners a condition for establishing companies in Denmark. This will ensure that the real owners are registered, as it is to be expected that a company with pure flour in the bag will know who actually owns the company you want to set up. The information we're asking for should be available for the company. It is also quite natural for me that companies that do not register the real owners should ultimately be able to be forcibly wound up by the right to change. Indeed, it is important that it has major consequences if companies do not provide the necessary information. However, companies that do not disclose their real owners will not be so forcibly dissolved. The process will be that the Danish Business Authority sends a reminder to the company so that it has the opportunity to put things right within 4 weeks. During that time, I believe that law-abiding companies have plenty of time to get the information about the real owners in order. That is why I also believe that the threat of forced resolution is an appropriate and probably quite educational penalty option. The draft law also contains several elements which we in the Social Democratic Party welcome: companies and associations with limited liability must be able to be converted directly into public limited companies; entrepreneurship must be able to receive a capital injection or a contribution, at the same time as they are converted into joint companies; and the dissolution of companies into changers can take place through telecommunications. These are proposals that ease the burden on business, so we can, of course, support them. The last part of the proposal aims to translate an element from the business package that the government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left last autumn. One of the initiatives is to lower the capital requirement for companies wishing to set up a limited liability company or convert a limited liability company into a limited liability company. We are fundamentally sceptical about this proposal. In the consultation responses, the Association of State Authorized Accountants warns against the relaxation of the capital requirement. They do so because they, like me, believe that we must safeguard the reputation of the good Danish public limited companies. Danish travel companies generally enjoy great reputation and are good at attracting investors. They can, because the companies are surrounded by seriousness. It is therefore worrying that the capital requirement is proposed to be lowered from the DKK 500,000. $400,000. It also makes very good sense to have high demands on companies that will be set up as public limited companies, especially because there are many other opportunities to set up capital companies with lower capital requirements. There are entrepreneurship companies that are almost free to set up, and you can set up a joint venture for DKK 50,000. So there are plenty of options if the companies do not yet have a size where they can raise the capital requirement of DKK 500,000. Overall, the Social Democratic Party can support all legislative proposals, with the exception of lower capital requirements, which is why I would ask the Minister to split the bill so that the lowering of the capital requirement becomes a separate legislative proposal. And if the Minister responds to this, the Social Democrats will be able to support the positive initiatives contained in the bill and vote against what is about lowering the capital requirement. With these words, I look forward to a constructive committee procedure. However, I should like to add that unfortunately the rapporteur of the Alternative cannot be in the Chamber. He is at a conference next door and I should like to say that the alternative is generally positive about the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101256	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101309	In his speech, the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned that it was almost free to set up an entrepreneurial company in Denmark, these 1 crown companies. Perhaps I should mention here that it is certainly not free for society, because they have already built up a debt to the public sector of over 1⁄2 billion. kr. So somewhere it costs money to have these IVS companies. The Danish People's Party is at least a little critical of continuing with the model we have today for entrepreneurship companies. However, with regard to the bill, we will say that this is part of an agreement that the government concluded with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left back in November 2017, and it is an agreement that contains up to 35 different elements, all of which aim to ensure better growth and entrepreneurship tools here in Denmark, better conditions for our private business owners and investors. There are three elements that are part of this bill. This is partly the reduction in the capital requirements for registering public limited companies in Denmark from the current DKK 500,000. to DKK 400 000, and that is partly in relation to ensuring the legal requirement of what a formal owner and a real owner of an active company is. It is good that we now have the registration requirements, even more than they were in the past, so that we also have the opportunity to take action if the ownership registration is not correct. The third element is that the government is also proposing the introduction of a legal basis for converting companies with limited liability if they wish to become public limited companies. All three elements are some that make it both better and more credible to run an independent business in Denmark. And, of course, we support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101459	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101508	As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, this is the quite good agreement that was made between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on a business and entrepreneurial package in November last year, an agreement which basically aims to strengthen the conditions for operating in Denmark and strengthen the entrepreneurial effort. For that is what we need to ensure not only growth but also prosperity in the longer term. After all, the money has to come in the box from somewhere and some have to earn it, and it is a question of ensuring attractive conditions for our businesses and our entrepreneurs. The bill here translates a number of those elements. Among other things: and perhaps the most important thing, which has also filled more in my predecessors on the platform's speech, is that we lower the capital requirement for public limited companies, so that it should no longer be DKK 500,000, as it is today, but DKK 400,000. This brings us to a level where we can better compare ourselves with some of our neighbouring countries. In fact, we could set the limit even further down and still go away in accordance with the requirements that lie at EU level, but in order to ensure that it should be a little cheaper to set up a limited liability company, but also to ensure that the credibility and high level of trust that exists, cannot in any way be called into question, a reasonable balance has been found which means that we do not impose any unnecessarily high capital requirements which make it difficult for people to establish a limited liability company. At the same time, we are strengthening our efforts to ensure that we get proper registration of the real owners of companies, so that it should be disclosed when registering new limited companies and companies, partnerships, limited liability companies and commercial foundations. It makes good sense, of course, that when you set up a new company, the real owners must be informed immediately, but it is also to ensure that it can be enforced in the future too, and if you delete it afterwards, yes, then there is an opportunity in the end simply to break up the companies if, despite repeated reminders, they do not provide the information that we have agreed here in the Folketing, of course, must be present. Then it is also made easier to transform limited liability companies into public limited companies. Today it is an administratively cumbersome process, it is actually relatively unnecessary and therefore it is now made easier to convert companies into public limited companies. Finally, the ban on postal deposits in connection with the re-registration of entrepreneurship companies is also lifted, so that in future it will be possible to make deposits in the form of values other than cash, such as through shares or other companies. It is basically a quite sensible legislative proposal that supports positive developments in ensuring good conditions for our businesses and making it easier to become an entrepreneur, and that is why we naturally support the proposal from the Left. Then, as something I have not tried before, I should like to welcome from the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill. This is not surprising, of course, as they are part of the parties to the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101847	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405101855	Thank you very much. As has been shown, this bill is at least partly a coinage of the so-called growth and business package that the government made together with the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party in the autumn. It was a deal that Enhedslisten was outside. We did this because it is extremely inequitable. A number of tax reductions are being introduced which benefit the vast majority of the population and 90% of them. The Danes do not enjoy it at all. It is an agreement which is financed by some drastic cuts in our public transport system, namely DSB, and which also takes money out of the room for manoeuvre that has been created, among other things. know that the retirement age of the Danes has been raised and where, when they did so, they promised that that money would be used for welfare. That was, in fact, the main reason why we were last outside that agreement. It is antisocial, and it is financed in a way that takes the money from the welfare, contrary to what has previously been promised to the Danes. We do not really think that, when you look at the content of the agreement, there is much help for small entrepreneurs and small self-employed people. Let us, for example: look at the share savings account. I know that this is not what we are dealing with today, but it is an account from which to invest in quoted companies' shares. Now it is not the case that Danish listed companies are in need of capital. On the contrary, they are out to buy shares again, and in fact, with the construction that money is being drawn away from investments in small entrepreneurs, because investments in shares in listed companies are being taxed. If we were to do something for the very large and important group in our society of people who are self-employed, we would have to look much more closely at social security. It is still the case that, as a self-employed person, you are far worse off when it comes to unemployment insurance when it comes to maternity, when it comes to pensions and other conditions that are so much helping to discourage people from starting up themselves, which means that we have a group of people who are in fact in many areas worse off than employees and who, as we saw during the financial crisis, are some of those who are most severely affected when the big players, the banks and others are driving our economy beyond the edge. Another area that should be addressed is the unequal competition that we see when so many companies avoid paying taxes. We have just seen that there is a tax gap of 14 billion. kr. for companies. This means, therefore, that there are good and honest companies out there that are poor competitive because other companies choose to cheat on taxes. We should do something about this if we wanted to do something for growth and industry in Denmark. As far as the specific proposal is concerned, it contains a number of elements. Some of them are positive. The demand to tighten up this registration of real owners is, of course, a real, good and important part, for which we ourselves have been working for many years as a tool in the fight against money laundering and tax fraud. It is very good that it should be extended and that there should be stronger sanctions against companies that are too poor to register. There shouldn't be loopholes or what do we say? So that is very good, and we support that element, of course. At the same time, however, we are sceptical about a number of the other elements. This applies in particular, as other rapporteurs have said, to the reduction of the capital requirement for public limited companies. We do not think that is wise. We do not believe that this is necessary. In general, this incentive to convert into public limited liability companies is not something we see as an important task for a number of other companies. There are, in fact, other forms of enterprise which have a stronger democratic element and we do not see any need to push for conversion into public limited companies. If one were to address something about forms of company, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also mentioned, then one should address the IVS, i.e. the entrepreneurship companies, where we have seen a completely insane development in setting up them with very, very high costs for the public sector. The idea sounds very good. A crown, then you have a company, but if it costs the state, I don't know how many crowns, that all sorts of companies are being set up that are never used for anything really out there, then maybe it's not the best solution. You should look at that instead. So, overall, we from the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102409	The Liberal Alliance, in turn, can support the bill. As part of the business and entrepreneurial package, it was agreed that it should be easier to set up a limited liability company. With this bill, we're lowering the capital requirement for a limited liability company to 400,000 kroner. and therefore facilitates the conversion of a limited liability company into a limited liability company. It is of course important for a company to be able to operate in the corporate form which is most appropriate for the company, and that is why we think this is a very good initiative. With the bill, we strengthen the registration of real owners at the same time. It is, of course, a continuation of an ongoing effort to ensure that one as owner cannot hide behind ingenious company structures. This must help prevent financial crime, and we can also support it, especially because it is now being done in a more unbureaucratic way. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102507	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the alternative and the Radical Left are covered by other rapporteurs, we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102524	In SF we think it is quite reasonable to make registration of real owners of companies a condition for any business. That is common sense, and it is really strange that it has not been changed in the past, but it is clearly some efforts in which we support the Minister and also the work that is being done internationally in order to be able to follow cash flows and counter economic crime. The consequence of this must also be that, despite several reminders, the real owners of their business have not been registered, and there will then be forced dissolution. We are opposed to reducing the capital requirement from DKK 500,000. for $400,000, so there are, as several of my colleagues have mentioned, both positive and negative elements in this bill. After all, the agreement is the implementation of the agreement reached by the government with DF and Radical Left in autumn 2017 on business and entrepreneurial initiatives with 35 different areas. SF wasn't in the deal. We think that it was a very, very unfair agreement that did not affect what the agreement was sold on either, so to speak, that it should be something for the smaller entrepreneurs and the smaller ones. We support the proposal from among others. The Social Democratic Party to divide the bill into two so that we can vote for the good elements of the bill and vote against, first and foremost, the reduction of the capital requirement for companies from DKK 500 000. $400,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102719	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405102734	The purpose of the draft law is to amend company law so that a number of reductions are made in relation to the establishment of public limited liability companies and in relation to the conversion of companies from limited liability companies to limited liability companies. In connection with the very good business and entrepreneurial package agreed in November, we also agreed to reduce the capital charge for public limited companies to DKK 400,000 in addition to a lot of other good initiatives. from the current DKK 500,000. The reduction in the capital requirement will make it easier to set up as a limited liability company. When we bring down the capital charge for this form of company, we will also, at the same time, get closer to the levels that are in our neighbouring countries. After all, we are still a long way from the EU's minimum threshold, which is EUR 25 000. In this way, we will make it easier for Danish companies and entrepreneurs to establish themselves as public limited companies, and thus we will also make it easier for them to compete with similar companies in the EU and in our neighbouring countries. This is something we in the Conservative People's Party find very positive. We think it is important that we keep a sharp focus on how we can improve conditions for Danish business, among other things. because it is only through a competitive economy that creates profits and jobs that we can afford to finance our common welfare. The draft law also provides for some administrative relief in the case of company conversions. The proposal thus reduces the administrative burden of converting limited liability companies into public limited liability companies. It seems frankly a little silly that you first have to turn a company into a joint venture and then be able to convert it into a limited liability company. It seems to be unnecessary administrative trouble, especially for start-ups, who grow and want to transform themselves into a public limited liability company, that they have to change company form several times. So, of course, we also support that element of the bill. Then there is also an element in the legislative proposal that has been mentioned by several rapporteurs, which is about tightening the rules in relation to real owners. Of course, we support that too. We think it is important that there is transparency in our registration of companies and that it is possible to look about behind company structures and find out who are the real owners. We think this is important, partly in terms of avoiding cheating and criminal activity, partly in order to create maximum credibility for our Danish registered companies, so that they have the greatest credibility in relation to both national and international counterparts. In conclusion, we also support the opening up of postal deposits in entrepreneurship companies, because we think it makes very good sense that there is a good flexibility in providing capital for the establishment of a company. So, with these comments, of course, we support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103031	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103040	Thank you for your comments. As several of the rapporteurs have mentioned, the overall aim of the draft law is to improve the framework conditions for operating in Denmark. The starting point is the very ambitious business and entrepreneurial agreement concluded by the government with the Danish People's Party and Radical Left in November, which strengthens the basis for future growth in Denmark. One of the initiatives among the many positive initiatives that make life easier for companies in Denmark is a proposal to lower the capital requirement for public limited companies. We propose lowering the capital requirement for public limited companies from DKK 500,000. $400,000. This will bring Denmark into line with the countries we usually compare with. We've looked at the different countries... the Implementation Council has asked us to do a neighboring country check... and it turns out that in the vast majority of our neighbouring countries, except Norway, there are lower capital requirements than in Denmark. So it will bring us to the level of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. With the proposal, the government will also ensure the forward-looking registration of real owners of newly established capital companies, which since May 2017 has been a duty for a broad range of companies. We make it a prerequisite for registering newly established capital companies, companies with limited liability... It is the I/S and the K/S... as well as commercial funds to register their real owners. The Government also proposes that, in order to enforce the current obligation to register real owners, the Danish Business Authority will be able to transfer capital companies, limited liability companies and commercial funds for forced winding-up by the law of change if there is nothing registered about the company's real owners. The proposal is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the rules and to ensure a real penalty for those companies which do not wish to make the required registration of their real owners. Finally, the government proposes to facilitate access to the transformation of limited liability companies into public limited companies. As the rules are today, it is only possible for cooperatives with limited liability to convert directly into public limited companies. Associations and limited liability companies must first make a change to cooperative before they can convert into a limited liability company. It is a heavy and unnecessary administrative process. That is why we want to provide better conversion opportunities for so-called limited liability companies wishing to operate in the form of limited liability companies. Finally, we propose that the ban on postal deposits should be lifted in connection with the re-registration of entrepreneurship companies. This will enable non-cash deposits to be made in the future in connection with the re-registration of entrepreneurial companies into a real limited liability company. In those words, I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103351	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103355	Thank you, Minister. After all, we are a number of parties who, here in the rapporteur's speech, have expressed the wish to have a split of the legislative proposal. Because when we have such a bill as this, which is a pile of weddings with different elements, then it will be really nice for those of us who cannot support everything, that we can give full support to what is positive, and then we can vote against what we will not support. So I would like to hear: is the Minister sympathetic to those parties that have expressed a desire for the division of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103425-2	Yes, I will be. So we can say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103440	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103448	Okay, that's it. Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103500	The debate is open, sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103515	Thank you. In Denmark, it is a pleasure to be a business politician and, at the same time, a great supporter of green change. The contradiction between growth on the one hand and the fact that my generation grew up in the 1970s and 1980s, on the other hand, is that the two things can go hand in hand. Growth and jobs in the wind turbine industry and more and more renewable energy are going together. Today, the wind turbine production industry employs as many as 31,000 men and women in Denmark, and the total turnover in 2016 was 98 billion. kr. That's impressive. But we must not rest on the laurels, and we must, from a political point of view, be in close dialogue with the wind turbine industry and ensure that there are the best opportunities to continue the fine and important development. That is the main purpose of the legislative proposal we are now considering. It is about creating increased testing facilities for large prototype wind turbines in Denmark, so that in the future we can also be competitive as an advanced production country in the wind turbine sector. The continuing development of the industry presupposes that the industry and the research institutions have good opportunities to test new wind turbines near the companies' development departments in this country. The testing facilities help to maintain investments and jobs in Denmark. At the same time, good testing facilities are an extremely important tool to support the reduction of the costs of wind energy. Megavind, a strategic partnership for wind energy, pointed out in its research strategy from January 2016 that there is a need to establish additional sites for testing prototype wind turbines in Denmark and that there is a need to test higher turbines than is possible today. We have listened to this in Parliament's parties, and the bill lays down the planning framework for the extension of the two existing national test centres for large wind turbines in Østerild and Høvsøre. At the same time, it is proposed that the existing law on a test centre for large wind turbines at Østerild be amended to include both national test centres for prototype wind turbines. The draft law also allows each of the two test centres to be extended with two new test sites for prototype wind turbines to a total of 16 test sites. In addition, it is also possible to set up prototype wind turbines up to 330 m in height in Østerild and up to 200 m in Høvsøre. And with the adoption of the bill, the Minister of Industry will be responsible for the implementation of necessary deterrent and compensatory measures around the two test centres. And there we have to be honest and recognise that the places for the new test wind turbines will of course affect nature and people. That is why it is also good to see that the legislative proposal ensures that there is some kind of replacement nature in the areas, and it is also very positive about the dialogue with local citizens in general and the pilot owners directly concerned, in particular, who have been there, and that local and public hearings and citizens' meetings have been carried out in order to make this bill even better. To conclude, I must make it clear that the Social Democratic Party can of course support the bill and look forward to the test centres with future research creating more investment and thus many new jobs in the wind turbine industry in Denmark. I welcome the alternative and say that the alternative is positive with regard to the legislative proposal. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103852	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405103904	Thank you. I do not think I will start by repeating what the whole bill is about. I think the previous rapporteur did so quite excellently. I have a question. It is true, as has been said, that the bill is the implementation of a political agreement made last March between the government, in other words the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, and then the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, and since then the Radical Left has also acceded to the agreement. That's really good. One of the things I remember fighting for when we sat and made the settlement was noise from wind turbines. This is point 8 of the agreement, and it is clear: under the auspices of the agreement on a national test centre for large wind turbines in Østerild from 2010, a number of studies have been launched on noise from wind turbines. When the results of the studies are available or by the end of October 2017, the conciliation circle shall meet in order to start negotiations on the necessary changes to the wind turbine notice. In the construction legislation presented in the Danish Parliament in spring 2018, the conditions for the neighbours to the new mills will follow the amended wind turbine decree. Then it is the case that the study, which, I believe, has been under way since 2010 by the Danish Cancer Agency, has not yet been completed and, of course, it does not make sense to amend a wind turbine decree when the study is not complete. Now I can be a little bit in doubt about which windmill order to comply with when this survey isn't finished. And you have to ask when that will happen when you expected it in September last year and we write April 2018. Is it going to be 5 more years or 2 months or 1 month, or is it just on the stairs? In fact, it was important for the Danish People's Party to get something done about these wind turbine announcements in relation to citizens affected by wind turbine noise. So I am a little puzzled about the fact that we are now making a legislative proposal where there are a lot of calculations in the proposal itself about what noise limits should be observed, because my point is that if we change the announcement here in a month's time, isn't it the new one they have to comply with? For that is what the Danish People's Party has gotten into the agreement. And I would very much like the Minister to answer that, because one thing is that things can go slowly here in the Danish Parliament, but when you have a study that started back in 2010, you have to assume here in April 2018 that it is damn near over. At least I'd expect that. That is why I look forward to hearing what the Minister has to say about it. So it will certainly be one of the questions we are asking from the Danish People's Party, since it is part of the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405104151	Thank you. There are no comments, but I would like to say that, damn it, what I am going to call a scam gang word, so we should not say that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405104205	It's a rather long process behind this bill. There is the recommendation from Megavind back in 2016 to meet the need to establish additional test sites to ensure that the framework conditions that need to be at the top are there, because it is crucial that we ensure the leading position that we have in Denmark in the wind turbine area. It must, of course, be maintained, but it must also be extended. On the basis of the wishes and needs analyses, the work went ahead and was politically determined with the agreement last March to increase the number of test sites by two in Copenhagen and two in Østerild. I must also say that there has been a thorough process. There have been many meetings and studies and discussions, and I am, in fact, very pleased that the concerns that have been localised have been very good at listening to together. Among other things, it has. This meant that what was originally on the drawing board, namely that in Østerild there was to be expanded by a northern and a southern mill, was changed to two southern ones. In fact, it was the same thing that happened in Køvsøre. It was precisely because we have all been concerned about finding a balance between ensuring that there were the necessary test sites and, of course, minimising the genes for the affected neighbours as much as possible. I know that six properties are still being affected, and if my information is correct, there is a voluntary transfer agreement with the four of them, and there are negotiations with the last two. An agreement has also been made with the affected campsite for compensation. It is, of course, violent when we give the legislative authority to expropriate for this purpose, and it has been important for us in the Left that it would be an emergency solution if we got there. That is why I am very pleased that in the process we have listened to the objections that have been raised and have moved the two proposed northern mills both in Høvsøre and in Østerild to extra southern mills, so that we have minimized the impact on the neighbours and have ensured that this affects as few citizens as possible. It is also possible to increase the overall height of the two test centres, and again there are limitations built into it again for the sake of the neighbors. So I think we have made a great deal of effort to find the necessary balance to ensure that we have world-class wind turbine test centres. It's a huge experience now it's Østerild, I know best to move around the area. There are also a lot of people who come and visit it on a tourist basis. A nice visitor center has been set up. This is now also being established in Høvsøre. For this is fascinating, but it is also a prerequisite for maintaining the strong position we have in Denmark that we have world-class test facilities. We achieve this and, as I have said, we take as many considerations as possible, and where forest is to be grubbed up, replacement forests will be established. In most places it's a factor 1:11⁄2. So I think we have found a very good balance, which exploits the potentials that are both places. We take into account the affected neighbours and pilot owners, and at the same time we have facilities to support a strong Danish position within wind. Then it is no surprise that we in the Left think that we have found a very good balance and that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405104617	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405104628	It might be interesting if the Left were equally up to its feet when it comes to the expropriation of general housing and the consideration of the citizens who live there. So it will be exciting to follow what it is for some residential negotiations that will run in the near future. In Enhedslisten we think it is important that we have the opportunity to develop better and larger mills in Denmark, and it has to be said that the Danish wind turbine industry has succeeded in producing mills which are constantly growing and where it is quite natural that those mills should be tested in Denmark before they go out to the market. Therefore, there has been this pressure to see that it is higher test mills that can be set up. What we now have the prospect of is a legislative proposal which can ensure that it can be up to 330 m high mills. We can then ask ourselves how long this law can be sufficient to meet the wishes of industry. I really think we should have a little in the back of our minds when we adopt such a bill here. When are we going to set up even higher mills? Is it then in a few selected test sites that you could accept? In fact, I think that should be taken into account now. I think it makes sense to try to bring together a law that contains the two test centres. We in the Enhedslisten are not included in the political agreement that was made for Østerild. The centre now lies there, and we can see from the process that has been here that there have been proposals for more test sites than the draft law contains. There has been a process in which we noted that both Denmark's Conservation Association and the Danish Ornithological Association are in favour of the extension of the Østerildtestcenter, and therefore we can fully support that part of the bill. I think it's a little more complicated with regard to Køvsøre. In fact, we would very much like to have an up-to-date status on the work that has started to find replacement areas for the Natura 2000 area, which is affected by the southernmost mills, according to the proposal that lies here, so get a status on how far one has come. I can see that a working group has been set up. There are concerns in the consultation answers as to whether the natural conditions are adequately dealt with when it comes to Køvsøre. We in the Enhedslist will await the answers to that status before we finally state whether we will vote in favour of the bill. But we are in favour of what to say, the first part, which concerns Østerild and, in the case of Køvsøre, we would like to have an updated status on the extent to which it is possible to find locally some replacement areas for the Natura 2000 areas that are being reduced. We can see that if the solution proposed were to be chosen, there would be fewer expropriations than if enlargement had been applied in the northern area. So it has some factual reasons, but has nature been given sufficient priority in the solutions that come? Then I also think that the consultation answers indicate that it is a real shame that the Danish People's Party and the government came up with the abolition of green scheme, because it has something to say whether you are locally compensated for the genes that may be caused by large wind turbines being put up in your neighborhood. I think it is a pity that we do not have a system in which we are, as it were, ensured that we have something to give to the local population when we put up mills. Then I can see that it has been tried in an earlier agreement that you have to work with the night lighting that is on large mills, and I am also aware that there are some EU requirements that make it a little more difficult national to decide for yourself what to tone down of night lighting, but I actually think it is an important aspect to continue working on, i.e. to come up with solutions where there is least light on the mills at night; that is to say, that you have intelligent solutions where the light can turn on if it is the case that there are flying objects coming near the mill. I think that is essential to continue working on this. I think it would be interesting to see to what extent it would appear that night lighting can be reduced in the future at the mills located in the two test centres. This is important because there are large natural areas close to the two test centres. So we are waiting with our final position until we have received answers to the questions about the nature interests of Høvsøre.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105106	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105115	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we support the bill as it stands here. I am sure that many people have learned part of the first project at Østerild, when enlargement was to take place there, because there has been a great deal of consideration for the locals and negotiations in a very positive way, I think. I would also like to highlight what we heard from the Danish People's Party: the noise ratio. When you develop windmills and can only get the price down by increasing the mill size, you can finally question whether it is a windmill; that is, with 330 m it is more like a power plant we are talking about. So if we do not manage the effects of such large buildings on the environment, and I am thinking in particular of noise, I think we are going too fast. There are not many people in this country who can understand that you can sit and investigate something like this since 2010. There must be some other interests that can be involved. I do not know, but I would very much call for the whole noise side to be given some influence when we develop these power stations, because that is very necessary. I also think it is very positive to say about this. We're going to have sea winds in Denmark and preferably as the first country to set up these mills without subsidies. That is certainly the ambition of the government, and it is a very sensible ambition, and perhaps we should have had it at a much earlier stage. Then it is obvious that in this context we need test places, so there is not so much discussion whether we should have it or not, because we cannot avoid it if we are to be on the super league in this area. So in those words, I would say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105321	Thank you. The alternative and radical left are covered by social democracy. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105336	Thank you. There should be no doubt that SF supports this proposal, and we do, of course, because continued research and development in wind turbine technology is crucial to the green transition. The test areas are therefore also necessary for the development in Denmark and in the Danish wind turbine industry and the jobs associated with the industry. But the mill types will also contribute greatly to the global transformation when the companies set up larger and more efficient mills at a global level. So we also contribute to the global climate challenge by having Danish companies so far advanced in their shoes. We are pleased that the process has succeeded in minimising neighbouring genes as much as possible through the southern location at Høvsøre, and we will of course also follow in the SF the work to find the compensatory areas to replace the agricultural land that must be removed from Natura 2000 protection, because the Birds Directive can no longer be maintained in the area. I believe that this can be done, and I think that there has been a great deal of sympathy from the Minister when it comes to finding solutions to substitute forest. At Østerild we also think there is a fine balance in things. I also think it is fair to say that the already restored areas of Østerild contribute positively to nature and biodiversity in the area. So experience shows us that it is possible to make replacement nature. That's why the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105511	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that when we are here today looking at new test sites, it is because it is a success story where Denmark is absolutely leading, where we have a producer who has started in West Jutland and is today the world's largest producer of wind turbines, Vestas. 98 billion is produced for, and there are some 30,000 employees. We must, of course, make room for them to have the opportunity to test it, and that is why we have the L 198 bill on the table today. I also think it should be borne in mind, when we talk about Østerild, that this is the story of a case in which, when it started up, there were many demonstrators and, fortunately, today it has ended up being a success story and where it has become a major tourist attraction in the test mill itself. The aim of the bill is to meet the need to expand this facility in Høvsøre and in Østerild for the large prototype mills, and that is why Denmark can still be competitive in the production area with wind turbines. This is an important prerequisite for the industry and the continued development of this industry and also the research with good conditions for testing these wind turbines in Denmark. We can see that Megavind, which is a strategic partnership for wind energy, has pointed out in its research strategy from January 2016 the need for more test sites and to be able to test higher turbines than we have today. When you talk about bigger mills, it only goes one way. It hasn't been too long since a 750-kW mill was a big mill. Now 3.2 MW mills are being erected in rural areas. It is the latest in our area, in Lemvig Municipality, that has been raised by wind turbines, and what you are practicing right now is as high as 9 MW. So we're going to see this development continue, and that's why we have to say that we're going to have some offshore wind turbines that are going to be very, very big. They will be power stations, and that is why, of course, there is a great need for us to have the opportunity to test them. Then I would like to say about Høvsøre in relation to the location in the south of the two mills, where one came into Natura 2000, that today it is quite ordinary agricultural land that is being cultivated, and what we are doing now is finding a replacement for it. However, just for information, Natura 2000 has been put out in some places on a map of years ago, which may have been a mislocation. That is now being corrected a little, and I think that is fine. At the same time, an agreement has been made with DTU and the municipality of Lemvig to provide visitors' facilities in this area, and DTU has also agreed to go in and participate in the development of the planned Climate Torium at Lemvig Harbour, which will help raise this area and show what is going on. So the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105847	Thank you. Minister of Business, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405105856	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. They were positive almost across the board. The starting point is also a broad political agreement which we reached last year and which aims to meet the needs of the wind turbine industry in order to be able to test large prototype wind turbines in Denmark. It is quite elementary that the trend is towards increasing wind turbines, and it is an important prerequisite for the continued development of the wind turbine industry that industry and research institutes have good opportunities to test the great new wind turbines in Denmark. The business creates both growth and a great many jobs throughout Denmark, and at the same time they catch a development where the costs of wind energy are reduced. This is all something we support with this bill. The bill allows each of the two national test centres for large prototype wind turbines in Høvsøre and Østerild to be extended by two new test sites, so that there will be 16 test sites at the two national test centres. In addition, it is possible to test larger and higher prototype wind turbines. In Høvsøre, mills up to 200 metres total height can be tested, and in Østerild up to 330 metres total height. In this context, the draft law provides for the possibility, as necessary, of clearing forest areas in Østerild with a requirement that the forest being grubbed up be replaced in the ratio of 1 to 1 1⁄2. The replacement forest will be established as a varied forest planting and will preferably be established locally in Thy. Similarly, the law requires different measures to be taken in Høvsøre to compensate for one of the new test wind turbines being erected inside the Natura 2000 area at Nissum Fjord. Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility of making the expropriations necessary for the extension of the Centre. Unfortunately, we cannot quite get rid of housing, but we have managed to keep the number down to a total of six. Since the political agreement was concluded in spring 2017, enlargement has been the subject of debate in the local areas around the two test centres. I myself have attended citizens' meetings in both places, and we have in the process adjusted on the original proposal, both in terms of the number of new test sites and their location. This is among other things. This was done on the basis of input from citizens' meetings and the other public about the proposal. I think that the discussion has been beneficial to the final proposal. I think that the draft law has found a solution which has the right balance between the need for the wind turbine industry to develop the major wind turbines of the future for the benefit of the growth and development of society as a whole and the consideration of both neighbours and nature around the two centres. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, asked about the noise regulation and the agreement that is crystal clear, that noise should be taken into account and that the study should also be looked at. Of course, we abide by that. So the situation is that all new mills which are set up must be notified to the municipal council as environmental authority before the establishment takes place. Similarly, the modification of a set wind turbine which may result in increased noise emissions shall be notified before the change is implemented. It is clear that the test centres and individual mill owners must follow the noise regulation and the notification must contain evidence that noise requirements have been complied with. In the subsequent monitoring of the plants set up, the municipality may require measurement of the noise emitted from the mills and, on the basis of the measurements, issue evidence of compliance with the noise requirements. If the noise requirements are not complied with, this is an illegal situation and, under Article 68 of the Environmental Protection Act, the municipal council is obliged to legalise an illegal situation unless the relationship is of secondary importance. Why, then, is the extension of the testing centres not awaiting the outcome of the investigations under way in the fight against cancer? I think it is important to listen to the researchers and act on the basis of those results when it proves necessary. The first part of the study on whether windmill noise can affect human health was published here in March, 3 March. The results of the study suggest waiting for the remaining parts of the study to get a better picture of whether wind turbine noise has an impact on human health. We discussed this during the negotiations on the agreement. The Minister for the Environment and Food has indicated that it will convene a conciliation meeting when the full picture of the cancer investigation is available. On the specific question put by Mrs Pia Adelsteen: what noise regulations apply? There is, of course, the noise regulation that is in force today. If there are changes to the noise statement, among others. as a result of the new research results, new mills or changes to existing mills will mean that the two test centres will of course be included in the changes. So right now, the rules of the noise regulation are in place. If there is a new noise notice as a result of the new research results, new mills or changes to the mills that are up there will be covered by the new changes that may come if agreed as a result of the studies and research that are in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110501	Thank you, Minister. There is just one question from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110504	Thank you. So, I have no doubt that when windmills are set up today, it is of course the current windmill decree with noise rules etc. that must be complied with. There is no doubt about that. But it is also the case that when we were sitting and having these negotiations, I said: I am not interested in more wind turbines coming up until we have looked at the windmill decree. That's why it was written into the deal. We had to look at it on the basis of a study that was expected to be completed last year, but it was not. It's only taken eight years. I should now like to ask the Minister: when is the study expected to be completed? After all, there is no reason to sit down and make compromises and agreements on the basis of a study that is expected to be completed when you see when it does not turn out to be finished, by the way, just drive on as if five and seven are equal. Well, I just don't understand the way to do this, I just have to admit that. Because if it takes 3 more years before the second part of the survey is finished, and it turns out that there are some major problems, then we risk that we have already got these 330 m tall mills that are higher than the Eiffel Tower. I think that's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110622	We live up to the agreement one hundred per cent, and I understand the frustration that exists about the fact that the investigations have not been completed. I do not know why they have not been completed, and it also seems like a very long time that these studies have been carried out. However, as I mentioned in my speech from up here, the Minister for the Environment and Food will ensure that negotiations are convened as soon as the final results are presented and, as I understand it, some preliminary results were presented on 3 March. The Minister for the Environment and Food has indicated that he will, of course, convene a meeting of the Conciliation Committee as soon as the results of the research have been improved. I understand Mrs Pia Adelsteen's frustration that it has to take so long. I don't know why it's taken so long to get that study done, but it seems like a very, very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110716	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110717	I think I would like to make a problem of this, because right now we are sitting here and saying yes to the possibility that wind turbines that are higher than the Eiffel Tower may be erected. That's the way it is. And we simply have no idea whether this has a consequence for people in relation to noise, because that study is apparently going to take 10 years or what I know to do. It certainly takes a very, very long time. I myself said from the platform that it does not make sense for us to change the announcement when we do not know the results. It may be that there is nothing negative in it, and then there is no reason to change the noise rules, but if there is a negative effect from wind turbines that are higher than the Eiffel Tower, will the Minister and I was just about to say that you should ask all the parties to the agreement so that there is something that needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110810	It is always necessary to comply with the noise regulation which is in force at the time, and if it is the case that there is a new noise regulation, if you agree on it in the circle of rapporteurs in the environmental field, then the new mills must of course be covered by it and if there are changes to the mills if they come after the new noise regulation. But you have to deal with what the rules are like today. I find it difficult to conjure up an investigation when there are some scientists sitting with it and then press them on the stomach and say: you must be finished right today. That is certainly not something we can do. But there is an indication from the Minister for the Environment and Food to convene a meeting as soon as you have a better overview of the results of that study.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110905	Thank you, Minister. No one else wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405110929	Members of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary decision to temporarily suspend the EU's negotiations with Turkey for an extension of the customs union. B 73). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111052	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111107	Denmark has been a member of Schengen for almost two decades. This helped to remove border controls at the internal borders of the European Union. It can make good sense and has been of benefit to Denmark, but it presupposes an effective and well-functioning external border control, and it has not worked satisfactorily, and so it still does not. That is why it makes sense for European cooperation to take new steps to strengthen the control of external borders, and we see today's two motions for resolutions as a step in that direction. With this motion for a resolution, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is asking for the consent of the Danish Parliament for the government to agree on behalf of Denmark to the European Parliament and the Council regulations on the amendments to the rules on residence permits for third-country nationals, the amendments to the Schengen Borders Code and, as something new, the creation of a common immigration and exit system. The latter, in particular, has had our interest for some time, both at home and among our fellow party members in Brussels. The European Committee already gave a mandate in December 2016 to the Government to inform the European Commission that Denmark would implement the decision to establish a common entry and exit system. We are therefore pleased that it now appears to be feasible. With the new system for people who do not have a residence permit in EU countries, their name, nationality, travel document used and the border crossing used will be registered. That information will be available to other Member States and we believe it can help to get better control of who is travelling in and out of Europe, when they are doing it and where they are doing it. It is only fair and reasonable that the people of Europe should be better informed about who is staying in their countries. Social democracy can therefore warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111256	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111305	Thank you. This resolution is, in fact, an example of typical EU legislation. The EU takes over responsibility for securing the EU's external border, for abolishing border controls between countries. So border controls are abolished, but are external borders under control? No! Neither in one way nor in another, not even in the case of what is right, namely foreigners who enter Europe legally. Today, there is no control that foreigners who have been allowed to enter Schengen on a temporary basis will also leave Schengen again when they have to. Their papers are stamped, but there is no registration of their entry and exit from the EU. It's like a hello man's ax handle. The prerequisite for inviting guests into your home is that you can get rid of them again, not that they bivouake in your backyard, eat of your garbage container and rob the neighbor when you need a little extra. But that is de facto what the European Union has accepted so far. Now the European Union will finally set up a system to monitor which third-country nationals enter and leave the European Union and whether they travel on time. And that is, of course, a step forward. But, of course, we should not think that it is this proposal that saves Western Europe from going down as a result of illegal immigration. The main problem, of course, is not the foreigners who enter Europe legally; the main problem is illegal immigration. The foreigners who, on the pretext of being persecuted and the foreigners who cross up to several borders in search of the best possible life for the lowest possible effort, are the main problem, and that problem has nothing to do with the entry and exit system. It will still be possible even if you do not have your travel documents in order to be allowed to enter Europe if you use the spell of asylum. Then all the barriers fall away, and one can de facto move around Europe as it suits one, if it was not just for the border controls between the countries which a number of countries have been allowed to maintain most graciously by the European Commission. So okay: this proposal does not mean anything to the big problem, but it could mean that in future we will be informed when a foreigner who has been allowed to enter the Schengen area has not left before he or she should have left Schengen. And that is a step forward, and, as we know, we do not say no to in the Danish People's Party, even if they are small. It is positive that in future we will be able to follow the travel patterns of foreigners in Europe, and if we had border controls between all EU countries, including airports, we would also be able to follow the travel patterns of certain people within Europe. That would certainly be an advantage, but unfortunately we are not there yet. However, the Danish People's Party is sceptical about the fact that this new immigration and exit system is linked to a higher degree of automated border control. We are of the opinion that it has a distinct value to face a border guard rather than some mechanical gate system, where you put your papers on a screen and the gates open if things are apparently in order. You don't get nervous facing such a gate if you don't have clean flour in your bag. You do that if you're facing a real person. Border guards cannot be replaced by electronics in our view. That is why, in committee, we will try to find out how deeply this demand for automation is. We also wonder why information about people who have not left the country as it should seem to have to be removed after five years. Why do they have to do that? If we haven't found the person, why should his data be removed? And if we have found him and sent him out again, why should we not know that he has previously violated the rules on entry and exit? Having said that, we are inclined to support the proposal because, after all, it is an improvement on the current, lawless conditions that have prevailed for far too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111718	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111722	Thank you, President. We in the Left think it is very important that we strengthen the control of the external borders and contribute to a more well-functioning Schengen area, at least when it comes, as I said, to the external borders. The motion for a resolution here is about obtaining the consent of the Danish Parliament that Denmark subscribes to the EU regulations on the establishment of a common immigration and exit system. A system will therefore be set up to store information on when and where non-EU citizens are entering and leaving for short-stay stays in the Schengen countries. And when you think of the system we have today, which consists primarily of good old-fashioned passport stamps, I think it's hard to disagree that this is a really fine step in the right direction. By setting up this system, the Member States and Europol will also be able to cooperate more effectively. For example: Europol shall also have access to the common register in order to prevent, detect and investigate serious criminal offences. I also think it is worth noting that an action like this reflects some of the very positive things that come from the European Parliament and the Council in terms of strengthening our external borders. Many point to the European Union as one of the reasons for the problems we have with the migration and refugee crisis. And then I would like to be honest and say that, of course, the European Union has some major challenges in terms of safeguarding and protecting our external borders. But there are also some really, really good steps to be taken. One can mention the Turkey agreement, the increased effort in Libya, and now, in relation to the control of third-country citizens, I think this action is really, really good and something that we obviously could not do alone. That is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405111924	Thank you. The government proposal is about the intergovernmental accession to the EU regulation on border controls on third-country nationals entering Schengen. At present, border authorities only have passport stamps to check whether a third-country national has previously entered Schengen. The regulations covered by the motion for a resolution introduce a comprehensive recording equipment with the creation of individual files, the recording of photos and fingerprints, etc. on entry. The information shall be stored for five years for persons who have exceeded their period of leave and for three years for other persons. This will, of course, allow the authorities to better monitor who is travelling in and out of Schengen, and although many of the recent terrorist attacks in Europe have been committed by people born and raised in Europe, it is clear, of course, that stronger controls can also have a preventive effect. At the same time, it is essential that, in the fight against terrorism and crime, we do not throw out fundamental democratic rights that we want to preserve with the bathing water. For Enhedslisten, it is therefore essential that we strike a good balance between the legal certainty of the individual and the security of the state. We will work to ensure this in the committee process.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112048	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112056	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are positive and are prepared to give the government the consent to join the EU regulations relating to the establishment of a common immigration and exit system. In the Liberal Alliance, we look forward to the establishment of a new system that will provide a better overview of where and when non-EU citizens are entering and leaving the Member States. This knowledge is necessary for the proper functioning and effectiveness of Schengen cooperation, including: contribute to countering illegal immigration. We therefore support the motion for a resolution in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112140	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112146	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have explained what this is all about, so I shall not repeat it. The question I would like to raise was Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen (PPE), rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. And there are still some questions from the European Committee on Personal Data which we are waiting for the Minister's reply and which I look forward to seeing. But all in all, this looks really good, also because it's going to make things easier at the external borders in terms of entry. So we support it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112249	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112254	Thank you, President. It's moving fast here. In this case, too, as in yesterday's cases, which were also concerned with the adoption of joint EU agreements, which we are not, of course, part of because of our legal reservations, we are of course in favour of Denmark joining this agreement to strengthen the external borders. So here too I would just like to thank the others for the community, and thank you for the judicial cooperation. It is true, as several rapporteurs have said, that it has taken too long for the European Union to reach these agreements. But Denmark is not in, so I would certainly be a hypocrite if I shouted at the others not to act in good time, since we ourselves are not involved in trade. It is a good thing that this is being dealt with in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112400	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112405	We can support this proposal. It is basically about the fact that when you have Schengen cooperation, you have to have enhanced controls at the external borders, and that is what this resolution is implementing on the basis of EU rules and the special arrangements we have on these matters, in relation to Schengen and judicial cooperation. So this is sensible and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112442	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112446	Thank you. As has already been said, we do not currently have a common system to check whether third-country nationals actually leave when they have to. We have a system without internal borders between the Schengen countries and it is a system that has its advantages, but when there are 26 countries that share external borders, controls on entry will have to be common. There is therefore a strong need to improve checks on entry and exit, especially across the EU's external borders. The regulations adopted by the European Union address this particular issue and seek to resolve it through European cooperation. We must, of course, participate in this cooperation, which is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112540	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112543	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving this motion for a resolution. I have, of course, noted that there will probably be some questions, whether some technicalities or something else, during the committee procedure, and I will of course answer that question. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is primarily to obtain the consent of the Folketing that the Government, on behalf of Denmark, subscribes to the EU regulations relating to the establishment of a common immigration and exit system. The Government considers that a strong control of the external borders is essential for the proper functioning of the Schengen area. The Government is therefore in favour of the establishment of a new system in which data will be recorded and also stored on when and where non-EU citizens have entered and left for short stays in the Member States. Similarly, the system will contain information on refusal of entry for non-EU citizens crossing the external borders of the Schengen area. The EES could also be used to allow Member States and Europol access to the system for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. It is the government's view that the new system will improve our ability to counter illegal immigration into the European Union and also strengthen efforts in relation to the current terrorist threat. It is therefore appropriate that the regulations relating to the establishment of an EES be implemented in Danish law. Let me conclude by saying that the motion for a resolution also provides for Denmark's agreement to a regulation on the common format of residence permits for third-country nationals. This is merely a change of a technical nature which relates to a more modern and safer form of residence permits adapted to technical developments, and this is, of course, positive. Given the Danish reservation, Denmark did not participate in the Council's adoption of the regulations mentioned in the motion for a resolution and the regulations are not binding on and do not apply in Denmark. However, the Regulations constitute a development of the Schengen acquis and Denmark may therefore, pursuant to Article 4 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark within 6 months of the adoption of the Regulations, decide to transpose them into Danish law on an intergovernmental basis. And if the resolution is adopted, and there is much evidence that it does, it means that the government will therefore inform the Council that Denmark will implement the regulations in Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112906	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112938	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405112955	This resolution naturally follows on from the last debate and I shall therefore be brief. Again, it is the Foreign Minister who asks for the consent of the Folketing to join common European decisions, this time a regulation that is still being negotiated, but which deals with travel information and travel authorisation for third-country nationals who are exempt from the requirement of a visa • it may be people with a diplomatic passport or a service pass or crew members on ships and aircraft. We believe that the new regulation will strengthen joint European cooperation at borders and that it can help to ensure a more flexible and effective border control, and that is why the Social Democrats are happy to give this authority to the government, as we have already done in the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113047	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113054	Thank you. It is true, as in the previous motion for a resolution, that this is not a revolutionary initiative which will significantly change Western Europe's problems of illegal immigration. On the other hand, it is a proposal that will put a small patch with a beautiful motif on a bleeding wound. However, when the European Union does not want to deal with the fundamental problem, namely the ability to circumvent all other provisions on when to get legal access to the European Union, just by using today's answers to "Sesam, sesam, open up," namely the word asylum, then it is good that some gaps will be repaired which, if not the fundamental challenge was so epic in dimensions in itself, would appear grave. For the outside world, it seems quite grotesque that the EU should set up fine, fine and probably well-functioning systems, such as: this Entry/Exit System and ETIAS to short-circuit the very same systems just seconds later by allowing foreigners who choose to invoke asylum to enter the European Union without hindrance. What is the point of the whole thing, then, you have to ask. We can set up effective systems to prevent all the wrong people from entering Europe, but if the wrong people can just come in anyway, if they want to make a request for asylum where their identity documents and passports have been lost and they pretend to be someone they are not, then all this extra security can really be indifferent. It does not matter because the right to claim asylum apparently undermines any other right, including the right of the people to live in security and security. There is simply a little Titanic about this proposal: Beautiful, efficient and seaworthy it looks, but we have already hit the iceberg and the ship takes in water. In this situation, it is a question of all men coming to the pumps, because we do not have enough lifeboats for all of us, although I can understand that a member of the Swedish Parliament has now given up the fight to such an extent that he has decided, in the form of the Swedish Democrat Kent Ekeroth, that he intends to emigrate to Hungary when his parliamentary term expires in September, recognising that his own country is lost and without a political majority with the courage and the heart of a man to take up the fight or save the pieces, as must be called in the case of Sweden. In the best of all worlds, where the European political elite would be prepared to put their people's future ahead of the observance of outdated, naivistic and self-undermining conventions, a proposal such as this would certainly make a significant difference, but in the present situation, where the majority of Western European politicians have not grasped the importance of population replacement and, worse still, do not seem to care what it is for a world they leave for their children and grandchildren to grow up and live in, then a proposal such as this does not mean one. Nevertheless, we support the proposal, in the hope that a new generation of politicians will understand that Europe cannot remain the same with other people in it, and that there is a need for a breach with the conventions that place it Europe, if the values conventions otherwise claim to defend, in the grave. As soon as there is a real will to defend Europe against mass immigration, this proposal too will be able to make good before this happens, on the other hand, hardly so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113427	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113431	I would also like to be fairly brief, as this should be seen here as a natural extension of the previous resolution, in which we are taking another step in the right direction towards better control of the external borders of the European Union. That is very good, because I believe that we must do everything we can to improve the security of Europe's external borders. With this specific motion for a resolution, Denmark joins the EU system ETIAS, which deals with travel information and travel permits, and this must ensure that we have better control over who is calling at Europe's borders. We wholeheartedly support this, as it is a natural extension of what we also wholeheartedly supported just now, namely B 104.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113521	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113526	Thank you. The government's proposal is about an intergovernmental accession to the EU regulation on ETIAS, similar to that of the US ESTA, in other words, a system whereby visa-free foreigners must be pre-approved via the network or an app and checked background. The Enhedslisten believes that today we have a very restrictive visa policy and are open to change, but the question is whether it is the right changes that are made with this proposal. We are concerned, in line with both the Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament, about the legal certainty of citizens in relation to the exchange of sensitive personal information which could potentially affect completely innocent people. Of course, we will be asking about this in the committee process, as it is vital for us that we stand guard over the fundamental freedoms of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113635	Thank you. There's a question or a comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113641	I was just gonna ask Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen, if it's Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's view that some people are forced, i.e. foreigners, people outside the European Union, outside Schengen, to make a request via ETIAS to be allowed to enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113705	After all, it is an arrangement that is being discussed and where there has been a lot of discussion in, among others. The European Parliament in relation to the fundamental legal certainty of its citizens. It is a debate that I am not fully up to date, that is, exactly what is being said, but we feel that it is crucial for us that there is a great deal of concern for the legal certainty of citizens. That is what we need to have thoroughly examined in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113735	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113738	What about the legal certainty of EU citizens? What about the right of EU citizens to live in a reasonable degree of security and freedom and security? So here we are dealing with a group of people who come from outside and who want to visit our countries for one reason or another. I do not understand how the possible legal problems of these foreign citizens should be overcome by the fact that we in Europe need people who enter our countries not to be people who have a bad mind. So I just don't understand Enhedslisten's nuance here. How can it be more important for Enhedslisten to give priority to the legal certainty of non-EU citizens over those who live in these countries and who need the security that lies in a system like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113829	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113830	It is clear that we must have security and security, and we in the Enhedslisten are also in favour of this. I also said clearly in the rapporteur's speech that this is a priority. At the same time, it is essential that the arrangements we then make do not violate fundamental freedoms. This is, of course, due both to the concern for citizens from third countries, but also to the concern for our own citizens, because the rules and systems that we are adapting to in the European Union are some rules that we would like to have to face up to in order for others to be able to make. We see there sometimes with an ESTA, such as... The United States has that there are also Danes who have problems completely unfounded. We would not want to create the same problems in a new regime within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113919	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405113923	The motion for a resolution we are debating here must ensure that Denmark is able to join the regulations in establishing a common EU system for travel information and travel authorisation. In the Liberal Alliance, it is quite natural that Denmark should adhere to the regulations on the system. Indeed, it provides a better opportunity to identify visa-free third-country nationals who pose a security risk before they reach the external borders of the Schengen area. The system must therefore help to improve internal security in Europe, and it is difficult to oppose it. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114014	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114019	Thank you. I'm not here to tell you what this is about either. This has been explained quite well. We have been very, very critical of ETIAS in the European Committee on Treatments here, and we have not supported the government's mandate because we believe that there are some fundamental challenges in terms of personal data in it. It is also something that has been raised in Parliament and several groups have been very critical of it, and I have to admit that I do not quite see that the end of the road has been reached. I asked the Minister a number of questions about ETIAS at the time, and the answers did not really give me much comfort. There are problems in making this inter-operationality that you can give others the opportunity to search it because how are they going to process the information they are looking for and extracting, and how long can the information be stored? There is also the question of disease lists. Here we can remember especially with horror, since HIV and AIDS-infected people could not enter the United States. We are not going to go there again to start registering such things about the citizens for five years. There is also complete legal certainty for the individual if you get a refusal. I think it is a challenge here to create a common system in which each country has been sought to deal with the complaint, but there are no uniform rules for it. Finally, there is the question of cross-border bus transport, for example: how is the responsibility of the individual operator in relation to travel? Having said that, it is of course crucial that it is part of the Schengen acquis, and that is why we must, of course, be involved so that we do not get out of Schengen, but I think there are some major challenges in what we should have discussed in committee. Much of it is also in the implementation in Danish law that comes, i.e. how we exactly do the things. So it's such a more subdued support from the alternative to this. There are some more specific questions about some of the things that we have already asked about in the European Committee when it was discussed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114246	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114250	It is therefore the worst possible justification, to say yes to a proposal, that we are in fact opposed to the proposal, but that we should not smoke out of Schengen and that we should therefore say yes anyway. Nor do I believe that the voters of the alternative will be clapping their hands off. But I would like to hear Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, whatever it is you want. For now we found all the hairs in the soup and there was a lot, but is the alternative basically satisfied with the way the system is today, where, if you happen to be a resident and a citizen of a visa-free country, you can simply enter Europe without any control whatsoever? In the opinion of the Alternative, is that reassuring?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114342	No, that's exactly what I'm saying. I would point out what the problem is in this and it is: how do we store that information? Who can search that information when you start crossing large databases in that way? That is precisely the challenge. It is not really so much that you have to go through some kind of registration, but that is how we keep the registration, how long we keep it, and what exactly for some information we choose to put into that registration. In fact, I think that these are very important issues, and I think that all voters and not just the Alternatives can understand that are important issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114414	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114415	I believe that a great many voters feel that they would like to see some control and control over who is coming into Europe. After all, it has been found that the European Union has actually given up on this. Then you do so little here in this and the previous proposal that makes up for it. But I simply do not understand the fear of the alternative. What's that fear about? After all, these are not European citizens who are being registered. They are people who voluntarily choose to enter the European Union because they are going on business visits or family visits or they are going to visit the little mermaid, or what do I know? What is so terrible about us actually registering these people who come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114503	Basically, the alternative does not mean that we should have a surveillance society where we have recorded extremely sensitive details of each citizen on this earth in a large database that everyone can then go in and tamper with. It's a basic criticism we have of this. The question is, how do we hit those personal data? And that is what I have asked about in my rapporteur's speech. I did not say that you should not register, but asked: how do we register, process and work with the extremely sensitive information? I myself gave the example of HIV-infected and AIDS-stricken people who have had problems travelling during a period of fear of that disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114539	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114544	Thank you. The comments I made earlier on B 104 also apply here. I am glad that we can join, and I think it is very timely that the government here is at the forefront and is trying to come up with something so that we can join as soon as this is adopted. As the previous rapporteur actually said, I would have had some more influence on the content here, but we do not, of course, have that, because we have a reservation. Unfortunately, I do not have a government that can seek to influence the details of the data in this regulation because Denmark is not part of it. And although the government is not mine, the talented lawyers in our official work are all ours, and I am sure they could have contributed here. Instead, we are doing so through the European Parliament, where we have also sought a great deal of influence in our political group, in which one of the major governing parties is also involved, on the very subject of data protection. This is very important, and that is why the negotiations continue in the European Union. So we are optimistic and in any case have sought the influence there, and there is support for this from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114718	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114724	We also support this proposal. It is very much in line with the arguments we used in connection with the previous proposal that we had, in other words, that it is important that the external borders are better managed. There has been such a little debate on the substance of it, but it is actually quite a ghost debate, including the one we have here today, because the regulation has not yet been negotiated. It is still being negotiated, which is why it is perhaps a little strange that we have the first reading of it today. I understand that we would like to have a different basis for joining it before Parliament opens again, but in reality we should at least wait until we know the outcome of the EU negotiations to deal with it definitively. In fact, that is also what we decided in committee at a meeting here the other day, in other words that in the timetable we have set we will wait as long as possible to have this second reading because we do not yet know the outcome of the EU negotiations. In addition, to the extent that the substance of the regulation itself is to be discussed, it is much more important in the Committee on European Affairs to take that discussion than it is with this resolution, which, in fact, one can say, is a kind of stamp that we can endorse it. Of course we should be able to agree with that. If not, we can get out of Schengen, and Denmark must:
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114901	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405114906	Thank you. In the same way as the previous proposal, this proposal deals with improving checks on entry into the Schengen area. However, unlike the previous proposal, this proposal intends to allow the authorities to check third-country nationals without a visa before starting their journey. The proposed ETIAS system is very similar to the US ESTA system, which has worked well for many years. If the system detects something that could be problematic, it is sent for assessment by manual processing. It is therefore not the IT system alone that determines whether a travel authorisation should be granted. By joining this arrangement, we will be able to ensure that anyone entering Schengen has been screened before they even board the plane. In this way, we will also relieve our staff at the external borders and provide greater security when entering Europe. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115020	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115025	Thank you for receiving this motion for a resolution as well. It is, of course, intended to obtain the consent of the Folketing in accordance with Article 19 of the Constitution that the Government, on behalf of Denmark, can agree to the regulations relating to the so-called ETIAS system. The government is in favour of the creation of a new common EU system which will allow for ex ante controls and, if necessary, of the possibility of refusing visa-free third-country nationals entry into the Schengen area. The new system, called ETIAS, will undoubtedly strengthen the control of the EU's external borders. Specifically, a visa-free third-country national will have to obtain a travel authorisation by means of an online search before he or she commences his or her journey to the Schengen area. The information provided in each search will automatically be compared with information in other EU databases to determine whether there is a reason to refuse a travel authorisation. If there are no hits in the databases, the travel authorisation shall be issued automatically within a short period of time. If, on the other hand, the ETIAS system establishes that there is a hit in a database, the case will be taken for manual processing. If it is considered that a third-country national poses a risk, the person will, as a starting point, be refused a travel authorisation. This is therefore a system which is largely similar to the American ESTA system, as Mr. Naser Khader was talking about just now. For the sake of good order, let me also make it clear that a travel authorisation will not be an undertaking that the third-country national will be able to enter the Schengen area with certainty. This decision must continue to be taken by the border authorities at the time of entry. As a result of the Danish legal reservation, which has also just been debated here, the ETIAS Regulation is not binding on Denmark and does not apply here. However, the regulation constitutes an extension of the Schengen acquis, and Denmark will therefore, as stated in the motion for a resolution, be required to state whether the regulation is implemented in Danish law on an intergovernmental basis. If the Danish Parliament consents to it and all the evidence suggests that the Danish Parliament does so, the ETIAS Regulation will be implemented in Danish law, and before the entry into force of ETIAS I will submit a draft law on the adaptation of the rules of the Aliens Act on visa-free admission to Denmark in accordance with the requirements of the regulation, among other things. travel authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115340	Thank you. There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115343	Thank you. I just need to ask the Minister for Integration to confirm that this is a specific matter. If it is the case that a third-country national from a visa-free country makes a request through this system, ETIAS, and is refused entry, is it not correct to understand that if that person is suddenly out at Copenhagen Airport anyway and says that he or she wants asylum in Denmark, then we are obliged to let him or her enter anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115419	We are obliged to deal with asylum. In any case, we are, and we will be, even if this comes into force, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115428	Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405115437	Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 1 p.m. to the last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405130109	I'm actually calling the bell to resume the meeting. We had to get to work on the last point, namely the debate on Question No. F 20. It is now the case, if anything is to be done, that the questioner is required to be present in the Chamber. At the moment there is no contact with the questioner, which means that we will not be able to complete the meeting if the questioner does not appear quite quickly. We'll give it a few minutes, or we'll have to cancel. We are sitting very still waiting for that to happen. So for the time being, I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405130221	We shall resume the sitting, and this is the last item on today's agenda, the debate on Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 20. The questioner, who was not here on time, and I am addressing him with that, because it is not fair to other participants in the debate that we have now arrived, and so we start with him for a reason for the question. Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405130254	Thank you. Let me begin by apologizing to the President and Members of Parliament for being late. I'm sorry. And when I get my breath back, I guess it's gonna be okay. We see heated debates in the Folketing regularly, but it always takes place within the framework of something recognizable, something normal, if you may say so. But today's subject here is not within that framework. Sometimes, in the big world, countries and governments do things that are considered inappropriate, and when that happens, the world community usually reacts fairly firmly and with good reason • even though you sometimes wonder what it really is that seems to absorb world opinion. In other, more serious cases, we also see that countries and governments behave in a way that is certainly not worthy of a civilised nation. Here, too, the list of various offences is long and nobody is forgotten. Naturally, in our part of the world, we often have an eye for it when other countries do not live up to the democratic values of which we ourselves are so proud. We look with displeasure at how other nations are jumping to escape this difficult democracy and that annoying tradition of respect for the individual. Unfortunately, the examples of hard-handed dictatorships are countless. The systematic repression of political opponents by an undemocratic regime, however unpleasant it may be to say that it is unfortunately part of the world's current disorder. Another, not unknown phenomenon, is the imprisonment of random people by regimes and dictatorships, as well as the torture and killing of citizens that are seen as evil. But the fact that people appear to be subjected to systematic imprisonment, subsequent medical examinations followed by execution, and finally to being cut up and taken out organs sold to the highest bidder, is simply so incomprehensible that I truly lack words. And that seems to be what's going on in China. This crime has a character that is impossible to put into words, and if I could, it would not be very nice words. The Falun Gong movement seems to be particularly exposed to this inhuman persecution, which I have not been able to find, after earnest search, anything suspicious or subversive by not being able to justify the persecution, but it might give a clue of an explanation. Yesterday I was visited by a few representatives of Falun Gong, and they could tell that Falun Gong professionals are generally healthier people because they do not smoke tobacco or drink alcohol. What if it really is the case that people in China are selected as cattle for slaughter for organ trafficking on the basis of the quality of their organs? Again: I just need words! It is important that democratic countries dare to focus on crimes against humanity, and that is why I want this matter to be debated in the Folketing today. I look forward to an unpleasant but important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405130613	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. That gives us the reason for the question, and it must now be answered by the Foreign Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405130627	Thank you. Claus Kvist Hansen, Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Tilde Bork, Søren Espersen, Marie Krarup and Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party have raised the query debate F 20. Information is first asked about the persecution of members of the Falun Gong movement in China. Secondly, the government's position is that the Chinese authorities allegedly extract bodies from captured Falun Gong practitioners and other political and religiously persecuted prisoners in China. First of all, I can inform you that the information on the treatment of Falun Gong practitioners by the Chinese authorities is limited. Overall, however, there is no change in the treatment of Falun Gong practitioners by the Chinese authorities. Thus, according to human rights groups, individual practitioners of Falun Gong continue to be persecuted, who are monitored and detained arbitrarily, arrested and convicted and subjected to both physical and psychological abuse. The practice of Falun Gong has been illegal in China since 1999. According to the Chinese authorities, a review of the Chinese regulation of religious activities entered into force on 1 February of this year, i.e. in 2018, and the review aims to combat extremism and limit the exercise of faiths that are not state-aided and are not state-approved. The assessment is that, in general, the regulation is being tightened up. The Danish Government is continuously following the human rights situation in China closely, and the situation is continuously being discussed with China. I would like to stress that the government finds reports of Falun Gong's perpetrators being arrested and subjected to abuse quite worrying. We have therefore also, as part of the European Union, raised this issue with China, among others. in the context of the most recent EU-China human rights dialogue in June 2017. The Government will maintain that Denmark, together with other countries, continues the critical dialogue on religious minorities with China and continues to support the work to promote their conditions in China. This also applies to the rights of Falun Gong professionals. It is then asked about the government's position that the Chinese authorities allegedly extract bodies from captured Falun Gong practitioners and other political and religiously persecuted prisoners in China. This question follows on from the question debate on 8 December 2016 and is therefore well known to the Danish Parliament. Let me repeat: the government's line is also firm here, and we, like the rest of the Folketing, take a clear stand against all forms of forced organ transplantation. This is also clear in the adoption text for which the Nine Parties of the Folketing voted in 2016. As you know, China has decided that all transplant organs should come from voluntary donors with effect from 1 January 2015. There has simply been a ban on forced organ transplants and organ sales. The decision means that illegal organ transplantation and organ trafficking are punishable under the Chinese Penal Code. On the official Chinese side, it has been established that the decision has been implemented and that all organ transplants in China today are based on voluntary donations. Overall, and since the matter was last discussed here in the Danish Parliament, there is no new and consolidated information on whether the ban on involuntary organ transplantation is now fully implemented throughout the country. It cannot therefore be clearly confirmed or denied whether in some parts of the country there are still cases of the use of organs from prisoners of conscience. The same applies to other forced organ transplants and organ sales. In any case, such continued practice would be illegal in China. However, while the cessation of past practices in China cannot be clearly confirmed, leading international organisations in the control of organ donation have acknowledged the Chinese authorities' efforts over recent years and pointed out that significant improvements have been made to the issue of forced organ transplants in China. This applies, among other things, to: The United Nations Health Organization, as well as the independent recognised expert organisation The Transplantation Society, which has previously strongly criticised Chinese conditions in this area. In line with the adoption by the Danish Parliament of December 2016, the Government also intends to continue to follow developments in this area. Let me conclude by saying that the government still intends to raise the issue of human rights and seeks to improve the human rights situation in China through the channels available to us. We do so both bilaterally in direct dialogue with China and through EU cooperation, where the conditions of Falun Gong professionals are actively addressed to China. This happens, as mentioned above, among other things. in the EU-China permanent human rights dialogue, which this year is expected to take place before the summer. Denmark attaches high priority to this dialogue and proactively supports the agenda, as well as our permanent participation as observers. Experience shows that mutual respect and constructive dialogue deliver the best results. This also means that our dialogue with China can be honest and critical also on sensitive issues and in what we disagree on. The government will hold on to that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405131217	With this, we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the time being, and we shall begin the debate. And that is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party, who is the first in the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405131229	Thank you for that and thank you to the Secretary of State. I was looking a little back at how the debate took place a little a year and a half ago, and I was aware that it was pointed out in several places that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was a little vague and that perhaps the criticism expressed against China was, what should we say, almost colourless, that it could be seen as almost nonsensical. I feel a bit the same tone again today, when the Minister refers to the fact that it seems that things have improved and that there has been a critical dialogue and that, moreover, a little has been said here and there. And I must respect the fact that this is the way in which we have chosen to tackle this issue. Of course, I had hoped, both then and now, for a rather more sharp attitude to what we are dealing with, that is to say, a clearer distancing. And I am also thinking of the rapporteur for the speech of the Danish People's Party when it was presented there in December, that is, by Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who says something like that at some point in history some people will sit back and look back at how we dealt with this problem when we knew about it. And I think that was actually incredibly right and correct and noble; there must be no doubt that there is a clear rejection of what is evil, and this is, in my view, evil. And that's why I wanted the Secretary of State to be a little harder in the felt. If you look at how the Chinese have reacted over the years, I also think it is a little striking that you start off by completely rejecting that this is happening, it has nothing on it. Later, a law is drawn up to deal with the problem that has not taken place. Very recently, three weeks ago, a Chinese official said that in the last 10 years 220 people have indeed been arrested and saved 100 victims from this incident over the last 10 years, that is, within the period when it has not existed. I think that is a rather contradictory way of presenting things, but peace be with it. Where I get a little uncomfortable then, when he elaborates, it's not easy to stop this kind of underground activity, they get smarter and smarter, and they're hard to identify, so as if this problem still exists. I am certainly not comfortable with the handling of this by the Chinese authorities, nor am I particularly pleased with the somewhat neutral attitude that the Foreign Minister seems to be presenting. With these words I shall then make a proposal for adoption, and it is on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten. And I hope that the order is correct, but at least that's the way it is. Allow me to read out: Proposals for adoption The Parliament expresses its concern about developments in China, which is marked by further centralisation of power and increased repression of democratic rights. Parliament's concern also applies to developments in Hong Kong, where the existing democratic room for manoeuvre is narrowed, among other things. with attacks on the democracy movement and the dismissal of opposition parliamentarians. Parliament calls on China to respect its people's fundamental human rights and to stop the persecution of democracy activists, trade unionists, national and religious minorities, including Falun Gong, Tibetans, Christians and Uighurs. Parliament calls on the government to make these demands to the Chinese authorities and to all assemblies where human rights are on the agenda. At the same time, the Folketing takes note of China's criticism of the illegal organ harvest and demands that China immediately stop the use of organs from persons who have not been freely registered as organ donors. The Danish Parliament calls for cooperation between Chinese and Danish health institutions to be suspended until China has implemented transparent and credible organ transplantation practices. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20180405131633	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal put forward will be included in the negotiations. I would point out that the vote on this proposal will take place on Tuesday, 10 April. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405131647	Thank you, President. Organ donation is a good thing. Organ donation is, of course, that for human reasons, you donate your organs that can save the lives of other people. I also hope that everyone who follows this debate today has mentioned health.dk and registered as donors. But if organ donation is something you do by illegally pulling organs out of prisoners of conscience, then suddenly it is no longer a good thing. Illegal procurement, illegal trade and illegal use of organs are simply horrible. It's unethical, it's inhuman, it's all those un-words we can even think of. That is why I am glad, although it is not very long since we have had this debate in the Folketing last time, that we will have the matter reversed. It is important that we stick to the fact that we are working for a world where people are treated properly, and that is not exactly what we are hearing about. I do not think that the Minister is so keen on what is actually going on in China, and that can of course also be very, very difficult. And consolidated information... I think that's what the minister used... is apparently hard to get. But that does not change the fact that there are persistent rumours of what is going on and that it is difficult for the Chinese authorities too to put an end to the illegal trade. But let me just say that it is a government's responsibility to ensure that this kind of thing is stopped. So I can only say that we in the Social Democratic Party are deeply concerned about this problem and would very much like Denmark to do what can be done, both bilaterally and also via the European Union, to ensure that this does not continue. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption, because now I am the first rapporteur for the parties behind the proposal, and it is the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative, the SF, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party who are putting it forward: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to continue to raise with like-minded countries issues concerning the conditions of religious minorities vis-à-vis China, including about Falun Gong, which has been an illegal religion in China since 1999. The Folketing rejects all cases where religious minorities are actively prevented from exercising their faith. Parliament is concerned to reiterate its clear disapproval of all forms of forced organ transplantation and calls on the government to counteract this practice wherever it takes place. The Folketing urges the government to continue to follow developments in this area, including assessments of involuntary organ transplantation in China. The Folketing attaches great importance to the strategic partnership with China, including close cooperation and equal dialogue based on mutual respect. The Danish Parliament supports the government's priority for progress in the field of human rights in China and that human rights are constantly being taken up with the Chinese Government both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue. • V 46). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132111	Thank you. This proposal is also included in the negotiations. There is one brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132120	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The reason why I put a question to the rapporteur is, in fact, the proposal for adoption by the rapporteur's party. I would like to know why it is so damn important to apologize, I do not know if you can use that expression, but why it is so important for the parties behind this proposal for adoption, to emphasise and attach so much importance to the strategic partnership with China and to express mutual respect, and I shall come after you when what we are talking about is genocide. That is what we are talking about: people being murdered because of their urge to practice a special form of religion. I think it is inappropriate when we have a debate in the Folketing today that organs are being stolen from living people, that there is a majority in this House who think that what should then be expressed in this regard is a great deal of mutual respect and strategic partnership, and I must come after you. Why is it important for the Social Democratic Party to express this in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132240	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his question, and so perhaps the rapporteur can nod: did I hear correctly that the rapporteur called it genocide? Was it genocide that was used as an expression? Yeah, it's gonna be nodded. To this I would say that it is usually the United Nations which defines when genocide is involved. I just think you should have that in mind. Having said that, I do not think that our proposal for adoption can see anything other than that we are deeply concerned about this problem. Social democracy is deeply concerned that people are involuntarily subjected to organ transplants, but that does not change the fact that we are also generally giving priority to the human rights area with China. That is exactly what is written here in an equal dialogue. That is the way it is, in other words, that we have an equal dialogue with the countries we are trying to influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132343	Many strange things have been said in the course of history about other countries, their magnificent victories, and I shall come after you. What offends me, and which I think in reality violates many people, is that in a situation where what we are debating is that you take prisoners, steal their organs, let them die as a result, stand and talk about equal dialogue. I believe that it is extremely difficult to have an equal dialogue with a regime that is behind this kind of thing, and I would ask the rapporteur to reconsider, review his conscience and then assess whether it is a good basis for having an equal dialogue. Are the values represented by the Chinese Communist regime and the values that we have as a free democratic country equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132438	I think I have stressed very, very strongly that everything that concerns an illegal and involuntary organ harvest, donation, trade, is abhorrent, even for social democracy. But it is also the case when we talk about foreign policy that if we can only have a debate with countries that are equally committed to democracy and human rights and all the good things that Denmark does, it would be a cousin-cousin party with the Nordic countries. So if we are to engage in dialogue with other countries, then we also have to accept that these are countries which certainly do not necessarily respect what we others see as human rights. But we would like to have a dialogue with them, that is the way to influence them, and a dialogue is, after all, that you both talk and listen, and that is the way it is, no matter which rogue state or other, Denmark is in dialogue with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132544	With that, we thank the rapporteur and move forward, and then we have reached Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen of the Liberal Party Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132554	Thank you for that to the President. Here, too, in the Liberal Party, we have the clear view that what is indicative of the happening in China, namely this organ harvest, is profoundly, deeply and deeply and deeply seriously serious. That is also why we are very pleased that the proposal for adoption which the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Gjerskov, just read out, is quite right because, on the one hand, we say very clearly that if it occurs, it is far out of the line of what can be allowed and that, therefore, we should look into it and, on the other hand, there is also a recognition in that text. The realization is that if you think that a country with approx. 5.6 million people can just go in and say to China: Now you hear, we want it and that and that, and we want it tomorrow, and it has to work that way, then that dialogue is very, very quickly concluded. Actually, it's never gonna happen. That is why we must also recognise that if we really want results in this area, if we really want some positive progress to be made on human rights in China, then we need China to listen to what we are saying. That is why we have had this, we have to say, balancing where you have the constructive dialogue. So every time the government is present in China and it doesn't really matter what ministerial post it is... the constructive dialogue is being taken up. It is not something the bourgeois government has invented; it is something that has been done for decades in changing blue as well as red governments. And that is also the only way forward if we want to move just a little, because China is such a big country that we have to do it this way. Does that mean that there is nothing else to do with China? No, it doesn't. One of the areas in which I think we should be more prominent is in fact what is happening in Denmark. After all, we have again, one can say that we have heard examples that include: The Royal Theatre has been pressured not to set up plays because it was associated among other things. with the Falun Gong movement. We in the Left feel that this is deeply, deeply disgraceful, and we also think it is very serious if it is true. It must be the case in Denmark, in a liberal democracy, that freedom of expression is one of the core values. That is why we must reject this kind of thing. The Royal Theatre is a self-serving, independent organization, so I can't control them; I can just make a clear call from here, and it's done. In relation to the further progress, it is the case that we want to take advantage of our EU membership, because here we really can see the benefit, feel the joy of being part of a group of countries. This means that we will have a greater value and weight when we talk to such a large country as China. For where Denmark may be a little easy to exclude in such a democratic dialogue, it is rather more difficult when we come up in the order of the European Union. That is why I am very pleased that the government has clearly indicated that EU membership will also be exploited in this regard, because I believe that something really can be done there. Does that mean miracles tomorrow and China will be a democratic, Western-oriented country? No, I'm afraid not. But I really think we have the opportunity to move away some small but necessary steps in the positive direction. So from the left, we welcome the debate. We are pleased that we are trying to focus on what is going on in a closed country like China. We are also very pleased with the proposal for adoption, which seems to be adopted by a relatively broad majority because it is moving in the right direction. Then we'll see what comes out of it, but we're at least confident.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405132959	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133003	I do not imagine that we in Denmark can tell the Chinese regime where the closet should be. I do not believe that we are doing this either by adopting the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. But if nothing else, we are doing the right thing from a historical perspective. That's what Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is in favour, I don't know, and I'm going to ask Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen: Is it such a step forward, as Xi Jinping is currently doing in China? Is it a step forward that we should have such a new Mao who can sit forever and rule China? Is there any progress in Hong Kong? I mean, I don't understand all that talk about equal dialogue and so on, because where does it go? Well, I do not see that it is going in the right direction in China. I think it is going in the wrong direction in China.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133115	Thank you. I do not think that one would say that one would at least go wrong in the city that I am the biggest fan of the Communist Party in China; it would certainly be as far away from the truth as it could possibly be. That is why I think it is very wrong what is happening in relation to the presidency and everything else. We could have a long discussion about that. What can we do? What am I seeing of positive things? Well, it's actually the regular Chinese. The average Chinese lives today in a very, very closed country where censorship takes place, so YouTube, Twitter, Facebook etc. is illegal. But the country is still opening up more and more that ordinary Chinese can be allowed to travel out of the country and thus also experience another world, a world where something is going on that you don't get to know about when you watch state television, when you go on the local Internet, etc. etc. That is where I think there is a budding hope that one day, hopefully, the ordinary Chinese will say: Aah, perhaps we should go in a western direction rather than in the closed direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133219	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133220	I love China, I love Chinese culture, and I think it is an amazing cultural country, which has unfortunately been destroyed by the regime they have and which I do not know whether to call communist or rather red-fascist. But I'm just gonna have to pray, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen answers precisely yes or no to the question: if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is looking at the plunder of power of the Chinese Communist Party, does he see it moving in a more democratic direction or in a less democratic direction in these years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133303	But we cannot answer 'yes' or 'no' to that, because there are some things that go in the negative direction, but also some things that go in the positive direction. The fact that you are beginning to gain more economic freedom is also freedom in general for the general Chinese. That you then still have a country so far behind in terms of democratic rights, well that is undoubtedly correct. But economic freedom is also freedom in general, and that is where it goes in the positive direction. Democratic freedom is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133331	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133333	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I must also express a little disappointment at the follow-up which I, like the rapporteur, have shown on the basis of the proposal for adoption. One thing I notice, however, is this tendency to pull the European Union on its feet and say: the European Union, they can do something. It is the European Union that can really say something to China. So I am thinking a little of: what if all the countries of the European Union have the same vague attitude as the rapporteur's party? Then you don't get anywhere. Then there is a united Europe, which has a constructive dialogue and hopes for the best, as the government seems to be doing. Does the rapporteur not think that it might be appropriate for Denmark, as we do in so many other contexts, to take the lead and show the way that the European Union can then follow? For the other EU countries may also be able to stand a little bit on their toes and not really know if they dare to jump out of the closet if you have to put it that way. And there the government in Denmark has the opportunity to put the line instead of hanging behind it and letting the EU be the big brother who says all those things that you might not want to say yourself. And I can also have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur really has. The final point is the question of constructive dialogue. I remember thinking, when I heard the concept of constructive dialogue for the first time many years ago, that we do not understand what is meant. It could be anything. It can be a talk of nothing, and I'm a little afraid it's here. Does the rapporteur have any opportunity to quote literally what has been said directly to the Chinese in a so-called constructive dialogue? And has it been heard by the Chinese?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133511	First of all, it is deeply surprising to me that the Danish People's Party cannot see anything positive about the European Union. I must admit that this is the greatest surprise at all in the debate here. But the rest of us, who live in the real world, can see that the fact that you are a larger group of countries, which then also comes up to a larger volume economically and in terms of the population, means that of course you also speak with a bigger voice than a small country like Denmark. That's the way it is. It's ABC in diplomacy. That is why it is an advantage to take advantage of EU membership. In relation to what has been said in the constructive dialogue, Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen very well that I cannot quote that, because these are confidential papers. But Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen sits in Foreign Policy Name and therefore reads even the minutes that are made after each meeting, where there is a minister who participates with his Chinese counterpart. There you go. Claus Kvist Hansen could also see that the constructive dialogue is being taken up. But I cannot quote from it because it would be illegal and I do not want to break the law here from Parliament's platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133615	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133617	Thank you for your answer. I will look carefully in the various minutes. However, with regard to the European Union, I have obviously not been clear enough in my constructive dialogue with the rapporteur. For what I am actually trying to call on the rapporteur is that Denmark is using the European Union and is a spearhead and is putting a slightly more critical line towards China. I think the rapporteur should certainly take that along. I know, of course, that in many other contexts the rapporteur is very, very pleased with the European Union. Here there is the possibility that Denmark will fill something in the EU debate. I think the rapporteur should accept this with a kissing hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133652	I look forward to walking hand in hand and promoting that we should have a strong EU line in this field too. I would very much like to take that with a kissing hand, so let us just make the agreement that the Left and the Danish People's Party also believe in this area that the European Union has its justification. I should like to join in fighting for the European Union to continue the good, strong, constructive dialogue in this area too. So thank you for the invitation, and I am happy to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133714	We're grateful to Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405133723	Thank you. The former rapporteur talked about the fact that it would be good if China listened to Denmark. I often believe that it can be quite difficult for the Chinese Government to hear anything critical from Denmark. What is being heard from the Danish Government is that the critical dialogue is being conducted behind closed doors. In other words, no one hears it if it is said at all, which can sometimes be doubted. But one can at least understand from the speech by the Foreign Minister that the Danish Foreign Minister listens to the Chinese Government when it claims from this closed, authoritarian, deeply oppressive regime that there is nothing to come for and that there is at least an improved situation. I do not think I am the only one to look at the violent repression and the secrecy of the Chinese regime which will suspect that what the Danish Foreign Minister believes to be improvements, when he hears it from his Chinese colleague, is really a song from the hot countries that have little to do with reality. That is also why it is so important to criticise the repression that is taking place. Unfortunately, it is very rare for us to hear criticism of the violent repression that is taking place. This is not a matter for the Danish Government alone. If we look at the European Union's statements, they are also extremely weak. However, when there are sometimes countries that come forward and criticise repression in China widely, as we saw, for example, when eight countries were there a year ago, among others. Sweden, Germany and England, who were criticized, then the Danish Foreign Minister refused to join. The Danish Government therefore refused to stand with our neighbouring countries, which was, of course, what the rapporteur of the Left said could be something important to do. This is bad because developments in China are deeply worrying. We see an authoritarian regime that does not hold back from giving it full throttle with a market economy, but at the same time grossly suppresses fundamental democratic rights and where, right now, there is a violent centralisation of power around President Xi Jinping. It can be said that the idea that the introduction of a market economy would only lead to a fight with repression, which some votes in Denmark have also put forward if we go back in time, has proved to be untrue. In recent years, there has been a sharp narrowing of the democratic room for manoeuvre in Hong Kong. In the past, there was some special status with extended civil rights, but the democracy movement has been severely crushed, opposition parliamentarians have been forcibly removed, and publishers, who were otherwise at the heart of publishing critical literature about the regime, have mysteriously disappeared or been imprisoned. There is also a violent repression against Falun Gong, and it is unfortunately not only Falun Gong who is being oppressed, although that is the main reason why we have the debate today. There is also the problem of organ harvesting. We also see that there are other political activists, trade unionists, national and religious minorities here of course Falun Gong, but also Tibetans, Christians and Uighurs who are being oppressed grossly. That is why it is crucial that we from the Danish side do not flatten the Chinese regime. Denmark must clearly call on the Chinese Government to respect its people's fundamental human rights and stop the persecutions. That criticism must be made on all occasions and in all relevant forums. Not least, of course, it is important to work together with other European countries to do so, to back up our neighbouring countries when they criticise what the government has at least in the past refrained from doing and standing up for each other when, for example, Sweden or Norway is hit by the anger of the Chinese regime, so that we do not leave our neighbours to roast alone, but that we stand side by side with them in the defence of human rights and by standing up against the Chinese regime. This is, of course, not least true of the criticism of the human rights unbelievable organ harvest, which should lead Denmark to take a clear critical line and impose or require China to immediately cease and stop the use of organs from persons who have not freely registered as organ donors, just as Denmark should, of course, also cease cooperation with Chinese health institutions until China has implemented transparent and credible organ practice. That is why we are tabling the proposal for adoption together with the Danish People's Party and the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134239	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134243	Thank you. I hope it was a statement when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen just stood and said in his speech that he is in doubt whether the government really had a critical dialogue when meeting with its Chinese counterparts. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Nikolaj Villumsen, through his membership of the Foreign Policy Name, gets the same papers as I do and therefore gets the same minutes from the individual meetings where it says that there has been the critical dialogue. Is it because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen thinks the officials are making falsified records, or is it because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen does not read the minutes, or why was it said?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134319	It can be said that this is the case with a criticism that goes on behind closed doors and that we are Members of this House who have a certain right to see that it does not at least become clear and clear to everyone. And I do not think that, in view of what I know, the Danish Government is doing enough to criticise human rights violations and criticism of the lack of democracy in China when you have the opportunity to do so. Of course, this is not the same as saying that nothing ever happens behind closed doors. But I think it is a misguided thing to think that one can push such a violent and oppressive regime as the Chinese one by going quietly with the doors. In other words, if you do not say things clearly so that people can understand them and then the defenders of democracy in China can see it as an active support for them, then it really does not have any effect. And that is probably why the Chinese regime is so fond of the position of the Danish Government, that is, because this behind closed doors position actually means that there is nothing to be referred to publicly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134423	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134425	That was a very long answer to say: I was wrong. But that is fine, we will take note of that, and I am glad that we trust that the critical dialogue will then take place, which you can read for yourself when you are a member of the Foreign Policy Group. I'm just gonna have to ask, what is it, sir? Nikolaj Villumsen wants beyond that? Is it a press conference at Heavenly Peace Square or something when you're visiting? And how much coverage Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen you will be allowed to get through the normal Chinese media on such a visit? Or is it just an attempt to disagree with the government when the government is actually trying to do what Enhedslisten is asking, namely to conduct the critical dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134504	In other words, we have always believed in the Enhedslisten that there should be a critical dialogue with China. We thought so, since it was a Communist party which led a oppressive and alleged Communist policy, and we think so when it is a Communist party which is pursuing a capitalist policy that grossly suppresses its own population. And I think I lack the same will to criticise the Chinese regime, even after the introduction of a market economy. I think that is very much lacking in the Folketing, and I find that sad. I think that what the Danish Government is doing is inadequate. I think that what we should be doing was, of course, quite specifically criticising what is going on, but also working for other countries to do the same, and then supporting it when other countries do. That is why I am highlighting this letter in which eight countries submitted a criticism of the repression in China, but the Danish Foreign Minister and the government refused to be among the group with among others. Sweden, Germany and England, who made the criticism. I think that is a wrong strategy to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134609	With that, we thank Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen Thank you), and the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134618	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by stating that we in the Liberal Alliance are, of course, opposed to the kind of violations of religious freedom described in connection with Falun Gong, just as we are strongly opposed to any form of compulsory organ donation. The Liberal Alliance wants the government to include these points in its continued critical dialogue with China on their treatment of religious minorities. In this respect, it is of course important that Denmark makes an effort on its own to raise the issue with China, but it is essential that Denmark also, in cooperation with other countries, particularly through EU cooperation, continue its dialogue with China. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that dialogue can come a long way. This is the way in which we should try constructively to promote, for example, the conditions and rights of religious minorities in China. Denmark has a good, credible voice when it comes to defending freedoms, and we must, of course, use that voice. That is the approach of the Danish Government, and we support that approach in the Liberal Alliance. Finally, I would like to point out that China has decided that all transplant organs should come from voluntary donors with effect from 1 January 2015. I also note that the Danish Government intends to follow up developments in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134800	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134804	First of all, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party must be the first to be happy that the Liberal Alliance has come to the conclusion that dialogue is going the longest. I think that is a point of view that we share a long way along the way. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he has taken the trouble to look at the relationship between, on the one hand, the number of people who, according to the Chinese authorities, have wanted to be part of the Chinese organ transplant system and, on the other hand, how many organ transplants the Chinese authorities themselves say they have carried out. Has the rapporteur looked at the two figures and compared them before the rapporteur took the floor?
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134903	I would just like to start by thanking you for the comment on the approach to good dialogue and assure the questioner that the Liberal Alliance is always happy to enter into a constructive dialogue with the Danish People's Party. Then the questioner asks whether I have looked at the proportions between the figures for applicants for organ transplants and how many actually get it done. No, I haven't looked at those numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134937	Is that a signal that Kenneth Kristensen Berth wants to be back in? That's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405134946	This is just because the figures I have here show that, if there is a link between the two figures, it should mean that out of a population of 40,000 people it is they who have indicated that they want to participate in organ transplants, one in ten of those people should have died in one year to match the figures. I do not know whether the rapporteur will be able to see it from the platform. I understand if the rapporteur is unable to do so. But if you think about it a little more, you can see that it is probably not so realistic that one in ten of this small group, which has agreed to allow organ transplants, just dies. There is simply a discrepancy between the figures, which is very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135045	As I said, I do not know the figures to which the questioner refers, and that is why it is of course a little difficult to stand here and take a position on them. I think there is just saying that the Chinese regime is not a perfect regime. We don't live in a perfect world. And what I think we should each humbly try to do on the basis of the different stands we have is to try to make the world better. And this issue of protecting minority rights and protecting citizens from abuses by states and others around the world is something that concerns both my party and the Danish government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135124	With that we thank Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative, who is immediately on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135134	Thank you, sir. President. I would, of course, like to join in the chorus that has already taken place today condemning what we are discussing here, namely the persecution of Falun Gong members, this organ harvest, which, unfortunately, is still taking place, although China says otherwise. The reason why it is important to stress it again • We have already discussed it in this Chamber after the last election • is that there are ongoing criticisms coming from other countries of China where we do not always participate equally actively. There I think it is worth looking at how we back each time there are criticisms and that we are not those who are a little in the second generation, but that we are actually going all the way along with the other countries that live just around the corner, in other words Sweden, Germany and so on, when it comes to human rights and criticism of the violations that are taking place. That is what the proposal for adoption is all about. It is a proposal which is very similar to what we put forward in the last debate on the same subject and with the same parties, in other words, emphasising that we need to be very loud in this area and that we need to emphasise this criticism. This does not mean that you should not talk to other countries and that you should not have trade with other countries, but you can criticise at the same time, and you can also be clearer in your criticism than what we are seeing today. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate, so we have been able to discuss it again. It is good that all of us here from the platform, as I have heard so far, have stressed once again that this must of course not take place and that there is a clear criticism of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135328	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then we have actually reached the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe, who is on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135342	Thank you for that and thank you for raising a debate on human rights. I think this in itself is a very important signal from the Danish People's Party. There is no doubt that we are seeing strife. And this isn't just about organ transplants or forced organ donations, you might call it the most serious case. For it is also generally a question of refusing people to practice their religion. It is also an essential breach of human rights. So we share the concern and also share the view that it is important for Denmark to join the critical dialogue and that it is always part of the dialogue when we cooperate with China. Because there are many good reasons for working with China, not only the economy, but it is also an access to dialogue. That's why it's so important to us and it's also why there's something about this collaboration in our proposal for adoption that the collaboration is also a channel for this critical dialogue. That is why we also support the statement made by the government, on which we are co-sponsors, in which we emphasize cooperation, but also the critical dialogue in cooperation, where cooperation can deal with everything else, but where we then remember to mention these things and bring them up when the opportunity arises. We think this is important. Then I would say that this is a more general issue. We have had a somewhat similar discussion in connection with the Dalai Lama's visit to Denmark a few years ago, when there was also a discussion about how much to take account of China and how critical the dialogue we have can be, etc. etc. There are also other large countries, i.e. I myself am concerned about the conflict in Kashmir, where there are also quite clear human rights violations. But there is also a balance: how to bring them to squares in dialogue and cooperation with India? So it's hard. We just have to admit it when great powers commit this type of abuse. At any rate, I am convinced that boycotting these countries is no use as a small country of five million. On the contrary, it is useful to have close cooperation, but then always bring the critical dialogue into the cooperation, so that you have an opportunity and a platform to raise your criticism from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135625	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we have reached Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405135640	This has become a slightly more general debate on China, and I think there is certainly a lot of reason why we should be taking it here in the Danish Parliament. If, for example, you're gonna have to... looking at how the reaction in Denmark and other European countries has been in relation to Russia lately with the recall of diplomats and sanctions etc., I have to say that I think it is justified that this has been done. But when you compare Russia with China, it is hard to argue that China is in a better situation than Russia is, for example, in terms of human rights. It is also difficult to argue that China conducts a less imperialist foreign policy than Russia does. The recent foreign policy mention was in the Philippines, and I can guarantee that the Chinese bullying practices in the South China Sea are something that really gives cause for concern in a number of the countries that are there. And the fact that China, if I may say so, is gaining more and more power. Chinese economic growth is enormous, and Xi in particular has very great ambitions to make China a global player; China is not today, but there is no doubt that there is an ambition that one should be the one that must give rise to some reflection, including on how we deal with it. Because this is the world's largest country. It can then be said that it is not, of course, because much is being thought out of the box in the Danish Government, at least as far as that is concerned. But there I think it might be useful to have a major debate on it. I just don't think it should be on the basis of Falun Gong, and that's where I think these China debates are running a little off track. That is what becomes the basics of it. I fully agree with those who criticise China's treatment of Falun Gong. But Falun Gong is not the only ones treated badly. There are Muslim minorities who will be, and you have Tibet, and you have the intervention in Hong Kong, etc. There are many different issues that need to be discussed there and that cannot be reduced to Falun Gong. In any case, I think that China's policy must be based more firmly than what we have witnessed here today, including on the part of the government, also in the way in which Parliament discusses these matters. We are behind the proposal for adoption made by a majority of the Folketing. If we had a vote, we could also vote in favour of what has been put forward by a minority; it has many excellent elements in it. However, we think that there is an important signal in the fact that the Folketing criticises the Chinese handling of Falun Gong and also organ donation, and that is what is being done here. It is said by Enhedslisten, Alternativet og Dansk Folkeparti that one is completely passive in relation to the Chinese. However, in the proposal for adoption, which is supported by a majority, one is not passive. After all, this is a clear criticism of the Chinese authorities, and I think it is important that a clear majority in the Danish Parliament would like the whole Parliament to indicate that we are behind this criticism. Then we can have different disagreements about the so-called critical dialogue. In the SF, we are in favour of it. After all, it cannot be avoided if you are to have any influence whatsoever, and of course you also have to do so with other EU countries, etc. etc. But what is at the heart of this proposal for adoption is that China is criticized for their handling of Falun Gong and criticises China for their handling of organ transplants. That is why I think there is good sense in the fact that the Folketing is behind this proposal for adoption. It is also characteristic that, when the last debate was held in the Parliamentary Chamber on China and Falun Gong, the parties that had other proposals for adoption ultimately voted in favour of the proposal for adoption tabled by a majority. I do not know whether we want to do that today, but at least I think that the Folketing should send out a clear overall signal that we do not think that what is happening in China in that area is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140138	Thank you very much, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140144	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I note, of course, that the Socialist People's Party is behind the proposal for adoption made by the government and other parties. And when I hear the rapporteur commenting on what has happened today, the rapporteur emphasizes that it is not only Falun Gong but also Uighurs and Christians and a number of others. But they are specifically mentioned in the proposal that has come from the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, and I wonder whether the Socialist People's Party really does not belong more to that wing and should support our proposal instead. Because there are several other places in what the rapporteur is presenting, where I hear that we want to see a sharper criticism of China, and the rapporteur therefore finds it primarily in the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140247	We do not, of course, conduct foreign policy through discussion of words; through a motion for a resolution here in Parliament. Well, there's a little student policy on that. You take a wording here and a wording there and ask why others could not vote for it. I think that the central point here is ■ and it should also be the central political signal quite apart from the various wordings that can be discussed back and forth ■ that virtually the whole parliament is behind a criticism of China in relation to the country's handling of Falun Gong. And I think that is a very central message coming out. It was the last time, and it is today. And it's important that you hold on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140334	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. As I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber who have not been on the floor, we have actually reached the point where the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now going to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140354	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very good and constructive debate, which basically expresses the last speaker that there is a united Parliament, which is concerned about taking a strong stand against forced organ donation, and which supports the ongoing need for a critical dialogue with China. Then we will be able to weigh and weigh the words differently, and then two proposals for adoption have come out of that. I would just like to conclude by emphasising that the Danish Government is continuously following the human rights situation in China and that we are constantly taking talks with China. The Government will maintain that the government, together with other countries, continues the critical dialogue on religious minorities with China and continues to support the work to promote their conditions in China. I would also like to conclude by stressing that the government's line is also absolutely firm: like the rest of the Folketing, we are clearly opposed to all forms of forced organ transplantation. This is clear both in the proposal for adoption proposed by the majority of the Folketing and in the proposal for adoption in 2016 which was supported by nine parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140533	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall now proceed to the floor of the rapporteur of the questions put to us, Mr President. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140543	Thank you. Basically, I would just like to say thank you for a good and important debate and one, which I also mentioned at the outset, actually quite unpleasant debate, at least in terms of what the subject contains. For once, I will be inspired by the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party and avoid going into bickering about wording, because the subject is too important and at a level that is too high to squabble too much about vocabulary. I'd like to go that far. If I may conclude a little on today's text, I suppose it is about two pages, if I may say so, in the Chamber. One is in favour of a critical and strict line, and the other is in favour of a more critical and tighter line, if you are to put it that way. But we're on the same side of the divide. I don't really think I want to add so many more words to it. I would just like to say that I believe that this issue will come back and that it will continue to do so until the day that the great world is absolutely certain that the monstrous conditions which I, for my part, am at least proven to be taking place in China have been brought to an end. Whether you are protesting in each small country or at EU level or how this is going to happen is perhaps less important. The important thing is that some people have to stand up for this matter. Some have to protest, some have to tell them it's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140721	Thank you very much, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140727	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the questioners for a good debate. I think it has been positive, as much as the Danish People's Party has today emphasised the issue of human rights and, above all, the protection of human rights, also for religious minorities. But I just want to ask whether this means that the Danish People's Party has changed its position. For it is no more than 1⁄2 years ago that the Danish People's Party announced that the Human Rights Convention should be written out of Danish law. And then I am a little surprised that it is precisely human rights that are being fought in a debate on China, if you want to have it written out of Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140821	With fear of betraying my own words 1⁄2 minutes ago about not going into word clues, I would say that, in the case of the Danish People's Party, there is a difference between human rights, basic freedoms, and then the Convention on Human Rights. There is a difference, and when it comes to fundamental rights, you don't have to look very far. We might as well be based on the freedoms of our own constitution, so we would actually be covered. They could also have been used as examples of the rights that the Danish People's Party believes China should respect. So to talk about issuing conventions and then putting it up against the monstrous thing that is going on in China, I think is a strange combination of two in fact different things. Human rights are based on the 1948 UN Universal Declaration, as I recall. Human rights conventions have come much later, and it is more refined and more detailed and some think burdensome. I do not know whether that was enough for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140928	Otherwise there will be another opportunity, because there is one more brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140931	Thank you. Then I would just like to conclude that there are apparently human rights and human rights and that one thing should apply to China and another should apply to Denmark. And basically, I think that's a mess. However, in any case, I am just glad that we at least agree that human rights should also apply in China.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405140957	It could also be said that I know China has signed the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but they have not signed any human rights conventions. And to sit and discuss what kind of human rights that China does not follow, I think is a little absurd. We could have called it freedoms, too. But the short of the long term is that as a world society, it is not implicitly possible to see the killing of peaceful people and the extraction of organs without consent and the like that we have been discussing all day.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405141036	With this, we thank the rapporteur for the questions. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I would also remind you that the vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 10 April 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180405141056	Although we have now got spectators on the ranks of spectators, it is still the case that there is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 April 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
