ParlaMint-DK_20181012100008	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an annual quota ceiling of 0-20 derogations for the purchase of summer houses in Denmark where the obligation of residence is not fulfilled). Andreas Steenberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the requirement for the assessment of integration of children). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the development of EU cooperation. R 3). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 26 October 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100105	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100120	Thank you, President. On behalf of Social Democratic MEP Erik Christensen, I am going to read this speech. He has the good human quality that he can only be one place at a time and he is currently in the European Committee. So I read his speech here: L 50, which we are discussing today, must be seen in the context of Law no. 359 of 29 April 2018 on the amendment of the withholding tax law, the law on equations, the Law on seafarers' taxation and the Law on registration fees. The bill amends the so-called DIS Act, and the bill aims to ensure the possibility of collective coverage with Danish professional organisations for all seafarers on ships that primarily carry out a number of offshore activities on the Danish territorial sea or continental shelf. The draft law thus provides a legal solution to ensure Danish working conditions on these ships. The draft law means that it is clear that the above ships are covered by the Danish model. At the same time, the bill means that seafarers on ships carrying out a number of activities in the offshore industry, also known as hotel ships, will be subject to tax-free hiring rules. The bill should be seen as an initiative to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of the Danish offshore sector in the global market. It is clear from the consultations that there is broad support for the legislative proposal by all parties in this area. And it is important for the Social Democratic Party that the Danish model is secured on the ships mentioned above and that the Danish competition situation in the offshore industry is strengthened. It is important for us that Danish pay and working conditions are ensured so that unfair competition from foreign workers does not arise in this area. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. Finally, it should be pointed out that the part of the bill dealing with the tonnage tax scheme and the DIS tax scheme requires the approval of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100306	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are no comments. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100317	Thank you. After all, the draft law put forward by the Minister of Industry is a draft law that picks up some of the things that were included in the business and entrepreneurial agreement that the government entered into with a number of parliamentary parties back in November 2017. The bill will give you a model that ended up being a law-based solution to ensure that the social partners can enter into agreements on pay and payout structure in relation to many of the ships operating in Danish territory, such as watch and supply ships, pipe laying and cable ships and also the large complexes where you have hotel and parking facilities for those working on drilling platforms, etc. In the Danish People's Party, it was with a firm intention that we agreed to this part of it; we said clearly that if there is to be this expansion of DIS at all, it must be an agreement in which both social partners will be able to see themselves in an overall agreement. And we saw, in a way, that it was a contractual solution, in which even in good custom a common agreement was reached and then had to test, if that would not be enough. However, the negotiations have dragged on to the Contact Committee of the DIS, and it ended up being that the most achievable thing was to create a legal solution. And that is what we will have implemented with the bill that is here, and it is very much in line with the fact that we will have these workers' rights guaranteed, also in relation to the additional types of ships that will be included in the DIS model. So we welcome it and, as I said, it is part of an earlier agreement with the government and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100520	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100527	Thank you. As the two previous rapporteurs have explained, this is a follow-up to a very good business and entrepreneurial package that we made last November. We are expanding the DIS scheme, and here is a follow-up to ensure that we dealt with the discussion and challenge of how collective bargaining was handled. We are following the recommendations made by the social partners, so that conditions are in order. I am basically very concerned about maintaining a position of strength within what we call the Blue Denmark. It is always particularly nice for a Leftman to talk about Blue Denmark, and fortunately this is something of the Blue Denmark that is widely agreed. We need to be sure that we maintain a Danish position of strength, and this requires that we constantly look at the framework conditions we offer to shipping companies and the whole of Blue Denmark, and this proposal is thus a very good extension of the many initiatives that have been taken, also in connection with a maritime growth plan. This is very positive, and that is why we naturally support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100649	Thank you. The next is Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100654	Enhedslisten supports this bill unconditionally. We even welcome the fact that it is a step forward, albeit a small step, in the fight against the shameful section 10 of the DIS Act. The draft law must be seen in the context of the draft law on the extension of the DIS scheme, which was adopted in the spring and which Enhedslisten voted against. This bill was almost made conditional on the social partners in the field, CO-Søfart and Danske Rederier being able to make a joint recommendation on how to ensure proper pay and working conditions for seafarers on the ships that will now be covered by the DIS scheme. On behalf of the trade unions in CO-Søfart, Metal Maritime introduced a law-based solution which would ensure that the professional organisations in Denmark could collectively cover all seafarers on board ships under the Danish flag regardless of their place of residence and nationality. In other words, it was an exception to section 10 of the DIS Act. 2 and 3, similar to the exception already applied to ferries operating between Danish ports and ports in the countries around us, the so-called ferry-DIS. With this bill, therefore, we have a legal solution that meets the requirements of seafarers' organisations to be able to cover the ships in question by collective agreement, even if they are now covered by the DIS scheme. As this is, after all, more State aid to an industry which already has relatively favourable conditions, the scheme must be approved by the European Commission. But there are certainly no good opportunities for this, since the European Commission has not so far had any objections to this system or similar arrangements in other Member States. On the other hand, the UN Labour Organisation, the ILO, which deals with industrial relations, has repeatedly criticised Denmark for paragraph 10 of the DIS Act in particular. 2 and 3 which are believed to be contrary to ILO Conventions No. 87 on freedom of association and the protection of the right to organize and No. 98 on the right to organise and hold collective bargaining, both of which have been ratified by Denmark. In the Enhedslisten we will continue the fight against the shameful and Udanan section 10 of the DIS Act. We hope that one day we will succeed in creating a majority in this matter in order to remove paragraph 10 (a). 2 and 3 and thus allow the Danish seafarers' unions to fight for proper pay and working conditions for all the sailors employed on board ships batting Dannebrog in the stern. Meanwhile, we welcome the fact that the seafarers' unions have managed to obtain another derogation, so we now have both a ferry DIS and an offshore DIS, and this suggests that it is possible to get rid of § 10. There is hope ahead on the horizon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012100951	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101023	I'm sorry I was just a little late. In return, I shall be brief. The proposal here aims to ensure collective coverage with Danish professional organisations for all seafarers on ships. The proposal is a follow-up to an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on business and entrepreneurial initiatives, which was concluded on 12 November 2017. The proposal is therefore part of a major legal complex aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the Danish offshore sector by extending the DIS tax scheme. That agenda is important for the Liberal Alliance, which is why we are also included in the agreement on business and entrepreneurship initiatives. The agreement must be followed up and it must guarantee the possibility of concluding Danish agreements, as we do now, and the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101115	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101126	Thank you. I should like to welcome our rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, and to say very briefly that we think that the draft law here immediately seems sensible. It contains the recommendations made by the social partners in the wake of the extension of the DIS Act, which is why we are positive. We have not taken a final position, but we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101153	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101202	It has, of course, been examined what we are discussing today, that is to say, Bill L 50, and, as Radicals are included in all the agreements that are behind this proposal, we naturally also support the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101215	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen? No, she's not here. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101230	Thank you. Denmark is among the world's leading maritime nations, and that is how it should be. The legislative proposal we are debating now follows on from the extension of the DIS scheme that we made earlier this year when we agreed on the business and entrepreneurial package. Here it was agreed that we would extend the DIS, but provided that an agreement was reached between the social partners to ensure collective coverage and orderly labour market conditions. The social partners have subsequently come back with a recommendation that a legal solution be drawn up to ensure Danish working conditions, and that is what we are dealing with now. Of course, we can back that up. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very pleased that we managed to extend the DIS scheme, so that Danish seafarers will also become more attractive in the future, for example. works in the offshore sector in the North Sea. It is simply incredibly important that we have good conditions for our seafarers, because their competences are important if we are to maintain Denmark's strong position in the maritime area. Overall, Blue Denmark employs about 100,000 people in Denmark and accounts for more than 200 billion exports. kr. annual. Many of the competences used and used by shipping companies, repairers and shipyards, etc., start to be developed at sea, at sea, and thus become the food chain into the industry. The risk for it was a risk if we had not done this DIS extension was that Danish sailors would gradually be outperformed by foreign labour, and thus the land-based part of the industry would also be able to look forward to losing important competences that would disappear abroad. Denmark has the world's fastest growing shipping register, and this is really good news, because it means that there will be better opportunities for Danish sailors to retain the skills of Danish ships and thus also retain the competences of all of Blue Denmark. So in the future, Denmark must also be a strong maritime nation, and we must maintain the position we have traditionally held as one of the world's leading maritime and trade nations. This bill is something that is moving in the right direction in terms of strengthening the Blue Denmark, and we can of course support that in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101456	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101504	Thank you. Thank you very much for the positive reception of the bill by all parties. I'm glad. It is also just a follow-up to a broad political agreement, so I am, of course, pleased that there is also support for the concrete implementation here. Draft law amending the Law on the Danish International Register of Shipping is an extension of the extension of the DIS tax scheme for seafarers working on board a number of special ships adopted by the Danish Parliament in the spring. Enlargement followed up on the extension of the tonnage tax scheme to include several activities, which were also adopted in Things here three years ago. These changes will help Denmark to maintain and expand its competitiveness as a maritime nation in the global market. The bill here is a follow-up to the agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on business and entrepreneurial initiatives concluded on 12 November last year. The social partners have recommended that we amend the law in such a way as to allow us to conclude agreements, and that is what we are doing today. The purpose of the bill is therefore to allow Danish agreements to cover all seafarers, wherever they are resident, on ships that primarily carry out a number of offshore activities in the Danish territorial sea and the continental shelf area. By offshore activities we understand activities typically carried out by guard and supply ships, pipe laying and cable ships, wind turbine and construction ships, ice handling ships and ASVs, which are responsible for Accomodation and SupportVessels, what we also call hotel ships. It is the intention here that the draft law should enter into force at the same time as the extension of the DIS tax scheme. The amendments to the DIS tax scheme and the extension of the tonnage tax scheme must be approved by the European Commission in accordance with the maritime aid rules before the schemes can enter into force. Provided that the European Commission grants State aid to the extension of the DIS tax scheme and the extension of the tonnage tax scheme from 2015 in the near future, the draft law may enter into force here on 1 January 2019. However, as I said, thank you for your support and I look forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101735	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101751	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012101806	Thank you. The bill contains a number of follow-up actions on the 2016 Plan Law Agreement, of which the Social Democratic Party is, of course, right, very happy to be a part. We are, on the one hand, because the agreement brought us into the worst liberalist thistles that the then Left Government had in play and, on the other hand, because the Social Democrats have contributed to a much more balanced draft law than would otherwise have come out of it if we had not been at the negotiating table and in the agreement. I am not going to list all the various measures in the draft law, but say that the setting up of the viable villages committee was a very, very good idea. We believe that the more than one million Danes living in the villages of between 2 and 1,000 inhabitants around the country must be guaranteed some municipal tools, so that the individual municipality focuses on the continued viability of the villages and in the municipal plan must carry out strategic planning for the villages. Municipalities must take a coherent position on the possibility of developing villages and must incorporate the guidelines for the development of villages. These are good positive actions supported by the Social Democratic Party. However, I would like to remind the Minister for Industry quietly that this is only the implementation of two of the 17 proposals from the committee, so we look forward to looking at the others. The draft law then provides for the possibility of land being set aside in a local plan in the so-called impact areas which are subject to odour, dust or other air pollution. A derogation or authorisation may also be granted for the construction of new residential buildings, similar to offices and the like, if the local plan requires the buildings to be airtightly closed. It's a matter of taste, but I wouldn't like to live in a home where you couldn't open the windows, but if people want a sea view and can do without fresh air, they're very welcome to do so. With the agreement, we have also ensured that those who move into these homes cannot subsequently come and impose restrictive requirements on the surrounding companies and demand that they be able to open their windows again in this way. If you buy a house where the windows can't be opened, you've gone into it with your eyes open. Then there is a section that has been made as a follow-up to the work of the expropriation committee. It is good that the legal status of citizens is improved by expropriation under the law of plans by increasing transparency and introducing a five-year sunset clause for local plans as a basis for expropriation. The proposal states in the Plan Act that expropriation may be carried out only in favour of general public interests, with the aim of clarifying the legal situation by expropriation under the Plan Act. It is important for the Social Democratic Party to stress that the change does not restrict the municipalities' existing access to expropriation in order to implement a local plan. The marine plan is a directive which has been adopted and which will result in Denmark having a marine plan by March 2021 at the latest. The aim of the introduction of marine planning for specific sectors and interests is to promote economic growth and the development of both marine areas and the exploitation of marine resources in a sustainable manner. The draft law proposes that transport infrastructure should become a new sector which must be planned for in the marine plan. There is good reason, for example. take into account the approach areas over water of publicly available airports. However, we can only support this on the essential condition that the Minister makes sure that it is safe in the matter of the directive. So we need to confirm that during the committee procedure. The bill provides for the possibility that the marine plan may be exempted from publication or announcement in the Official Journal, which would mean that the marine plan can be published as a user-friendly digital map rather than as a traditional notice with coordinates. That is fine, but we must also ensure that IT security is at its top and that it can be established at any time what specific marine plan has been in force at a specific time. We would also like to see that clarified during the committee procedure. Finally, on the basis of an overall assessment of the individual actions, the Social Democrats are in favour of the draft law, but before we can give our final support, we need to clarify whether transport infrastructure is within the scope of the directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012102233	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. The next one is sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012102243	The draft law that we are now considering is of a slightly more diverse nature than the draft law that we started with in relation to the DIS. These are a number of changes to a relatively new agreement on planning legislation here in Denmark. It contains a number of different initiatives, which the Socialist rapporteur also explained in a way to the vast majority of things. The municipality of Læsø has long expressed its wish to be able to grant a derogation for the entire year's residence in summer cottage areas. This is believed to have positive economic consequences for the island and to promote the development of the municipality. This is one of the proposals included in that agreement, and we support that. However, we would like to be sure, in the interests of safety, that at the same time we will also have an examination of what is to be done in practical terms if those who receive these permits do not want to have their accommodation returned to normal summer cottage afterwards. We need to clarify this in the context of the work of the committee. Then, with regard to the work of the committee that was set up, on viable villages, I would say that there is no one here in the Kingdom who does not want our villages and our rural areas to be viable, and that it is also true, as the Socialist rapporteur said, that with this bill only two out of a wide range of different points come true. With this bill it will be the case that the municipalities will be obliged in their municipal planning to undertake strategic planning for village development opportunities. Very many Danish municipalities have already done so, many municipalities have been good at making village development projects, where they may have chosen some of the municipality's smaller urban communities out, but where they have at least taken into account what they are able to do in purely local politics to make cities more future-proof and ensure that there is still a desire to live there and that there is also an increase in the number of inhabitants. And I hope that here in the Folketing we can find common ground to continue working on some of the other proposals that the committee has made. The draft law also contains a concrete change in the law of plans, in relation to the wish expressed, among other things. The municipality of Aarhus has had to establish housing in harbour areas. It is true that we are also opening the way for housing to be built in places where it can be associated with certain types of dust, traffic and air pollution, etc., provided that there are these so-called hermetically closed windows. You shouldn't be so afraid of that, I would say. I mean, if you take New York, where 26 million people live, I actually think they're happy they can't open every window like that. It should also be borne in mind that at the same time there are all these filtration systems. For example, the new Comwell hotel in Aarhus is built in the way that half a floor has been installed, which alone ensures that the air is continuously replaced and cleaned, so that there is always really good and clean air to breathe into the homes. So there are a lot of ways to do it, and I am sure that you also take care of it. It is the case that we also ensure with the bill that the companies located at Aarhus Harbour, for example. DLG and Karlshamnfabrikken, of course, are still able to meet the production requirements of their type of business. As far as expropriation is concerned, it was, in the context of the planning agreement back in 2016, a wish from among others. Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party that we had a look at how to ensure better conditions for the expropriation victims. That is why we are also pleased that, after all, we have now come to the conclusion that those exposed to expropriation should be given greater legal certainty in relation to the transparency of the Expropriation Plan Act, and that the five-year sunset clause has also been introduced, which ensures that not only can we put timetables into local plans without having any sense whatsoever, in relation to the fact that there are also people who own the affected land and housing. So, as I said, the bill contains many different elements. All of them share the view that they deal with our planning legislation, and the Danish People's Party can support the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012102739	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012102748	It was important for the Left for us to have the law of plans liberalised, and I share the view that Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party has, that is, it was good that we had an agreement. But I certainly do not reveal anything by saying that we did it in a slightly different way, because our ambition, for example, to have given the municipalities even more opportunities to make decisions themselves, which are not to be decided centrally, was greater than the agreement that we got the country. In fact, we think that we could have given a little more space to ensure even stronger development, among other things. in our rural areas, than where we landed. However, we have reached an agreement, and it is of course important to note that it was a broad agreement and that, in doing so, stability has also been created around it, even though the level of ambition on the part of the Left was greater than that on which we landed. I think I should have brought that. We are then following up on the legislation that we have made in the past • some of the things that had to be examined in connection with the conclusion of the law on plans, for example, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, in relation to some of the recommendations made by the Committee on viable villages. And, of course, I share some of the surprise that others have also expressed that it should be quite natural for the municipalities to make strategic planning which takes a position on the possibilities for the development of viable villages, but now we are putting it in place as a requirement that it should be an entirely natural and integral part of municipal planning. There is also a follow-up to the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation. With this proposal, we will ensure that the legal status of citizens is improved by expropriation through increased transparency and the introduction of a five-year sunset clause for local plans as an expropriation basis. I clearly share the view expressed by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that if a municipal council considers that there is an area where a municipal plan must guarantee access to expropriation, then it must also be clarified within a reasonable time frame. Having a potential expropriation hanging over our heads for many years, I simply do not think we can offer the citizens. Either you have to expropriate or you don't have to. And a five-year sunset clause seems to me to be quite a sensible provision. The third part of the draft law is something that also follows directly from the planned law agreement. After all, we were inspired by what was called the Hamburg model, which ensured clear rules on how to build, including in areas where there is smell, dust or other air pollution. In what we did in the first place, we made it possible to build office buildings, but there has been a desire for housing to be built in these areas as well. But, of course, there is a requirement that the building should be airtightly closed and mechanically ventilated so that people can be assured of proper air quality, but at the same time also, and this is the whole objective of ensuring a balance, so that the companies located in the port area in advance do not run the risk of being subsequently faced with a requirement that they now have to reduce their production because they have now built housing. There, I believe, we have found a sensible balance that takes account of existing companies, but also allows municipalities to build attractive housing, which is then airtightly closed, so that no smells and noise nuisances are caused if you open windows or are in outdoor areas. In addition, Læsø is included in the list of islands where exemption for the full year rental of summer houses can be granted. It has been a wish locally, and it must help to ensure better opportunities. Finally, there is a change in maritime spatial planning. That has been explained in the past, so let me skip the details of it. Basically, this is a follow-up to a planned law agreement aimed at ensuring a slightly freer framework for development across the country, and we will be following up some of the things we had examined. I think these are sensible, constructive changes, and we of course support them on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103222	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103229	From Enhedslisten's side we find it positive that the proposal here focuses on the municipal planning of the many villages in the Danish country. But that is not the only element of the bill. In fact, the draft law is a jumble of many different proposals from the strategic planning of villages, as I have just mentioned, to housing in the context zones, to expropriation regulations and then something about maritime infrastructure installations. Frankly, this is a rather messy way of dealing with legislative proposals. And if we just stick to the process before I address the content of the bill, there are also many of the consultation parties who notice that the consultation on the bill over the holiday months is very unfortunate if you want to take the consultation parties and their input seriously. Having said that, I would like to comment on the substance of the draft law. The Enhedslisten, as I mentioned earlier, is very positive about the part of the bill which deals with the strategic planning of villages in connection with municipal planning. There are over a million Danes living in rural areas and villages, and therefore it is important to take proper care of the framework that exists for the lives and lives of these people. It is therefore quite time for this part of the planning of the municipalities to be properly raised and for an active position to be taken on the development of the many villages around the country. So far, so good. On the other hand, we are not in favour of the second part of the draft law. We do not want to allow housing to be planned in so-called consequence areas which are burdened with dust, smell and noise. In the view of Enhedslisten, this is a completely wrong way to go and will only lead to more conflicts between homes and businesses. It benefits no one, neither companies nor homes, and frankly it shows bad planning. The fact that the bill provides for the possibility of imposing requirements for housing to be fitted with airtight windows and windows that cannot be opened at all, we believe that this is a completely backward way of dealing with environmental problems. With planning, we must avoid conflicts between different land uses, not encourage them. So we absolutely cannot support this part of the bill. A third part of the bill is about giving the possibility of a full-year residence in the summer cottage areas on Læsø. In the view of Enhedslisten, care should be taken to allow you to live all year round in a summer house area. There may be important issues associated with e.g.: to provide local services to those areas, and the areas are not planned to live there throughout the year. Having said that, there may also be local conditions that mean that it may be a good idea. That is why I should like to say that the Enhedslisten is not opposed to this part of the legislative proposal. I should just like to say from the SF that they share the same view and that we will propose that the bill be shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103541	It'll be noted. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103551	Thank you. The proposal here must, of course, follow up the recommendations of the Committee on viable villages and the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation. In the Liberal Alliance, we have long been concerned about strengthening legal certainty about expropriations. Unfortunately, in Denmark we have seen lax practices which are not worthy of the rule of law, a state in which the municipalities expropriate for all kinds of and impossible private purposes. A proper tightening-up is needed in this area, and this bill is taking a step in the right direction. Indeed, a five-year sunset clause is ensured in relation to using local plans as an expropriation basis and more transparency in the process. We think this is extremely positive and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103643	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103702	Once again, I would like to welcome our rapporteur on this subject, Rasmus Nordqvist, and say the following: we think it is good to have a strategic planning for villages, but, like Enhedslisten has explained, we are very concerned about the part that is particularly important in terms of building housing which is airtightly closed. This is a significant shift from the polluter-pays principle. Instead, it will then be builders, private professionals who have to pay, and residents who have to bear the consequences. The municipality of Brønderslev points out that these hermetically closed buildings are likely to be unsellable and, as Martin Odgaard from Aarhus School of Architecture says, I consider this problematic. Partly because it is an excellent principle that you can breathe into your own home with fresh air and partly because it makes our housing climate totally dependent on mechanical solutions. So as a starting point, we're against this proposal. With regard to the proposal for derogations on Læsø, we are also in line with the view that one should be careful of such derogations. After all, there is a reason why we have a division between cottage areas and permanent residence. So, like Enhedslisten and SF, we are actually proposing that the proposal be split up so that we can deal with the components individually. There are some who are quite OK, and there are some who, in our eyes, are going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103853	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012103902	Thank you very much. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party rightly said, there is no one in here who does not want live and sustainable villages, viable villages in Denmark, and I think that is actually a good place to be, so that we agree that this is what we all want. Then you can discuss whether we agree entirely on what an attractive village is. For it is clear that one must be able to develop, that one must be able to live there, but in reality we see that focusing on the landscape around a village, nature, cultural history and the environment around the village is just as important as being able to talk about what an attractive village is. So we'd like to see if we can further clarify this bill and also see if we can avoid scattered settlements coming closer to the larger cities. Otherwise we will also see that it goes from being villages and starting to grow together with the cities, and then we lose some of what I think is quite unique about the Danish landscape, namely that we have the cities so much more focused and that we then have the open country. So we would like to go in and look at that in the committee work. For the proposal to make it possible for a full-year residence on Læsø: It is clear that you can be skeptical about how many holiday homes you have to make it possible for there to be a full-year residence in general in the country. But I would say that the islands are a special case, and I think there is good reason to listen on Læsø, when they say that they believe that it is some of the things that can help create life all year on Læsø and thus also make it possible to maintain a store or other functions. So we are in favour of this, and we are also in favour of taking transport infrastructure into maritime planning. Then there is an area that is really difficult here, and it is whether to put housing in polluted areas where there is smell, dust and air pollution. Of course, one can imagine that there is a port area where there is some industry and where one wants to develop and where it can be attractive to put some housing, but then we might generally get into a situation where the municipalities think: Well, then we can give some extra permits for a polluting industry to develop here. Or: We are trying to build something more here, where the citizens might not have imagined what it could mean to live with smell pollution, dust pollution and air pollution. I do not really think it is entirely worthy of Denmark that we should have places where you cannot open the windows of the buildings. I mean, we talk about it as if it just had to be airtightly closed and you shouldn't be able to open the window because it's so polluted outside. Oh, is that the country we want? Yes, I really doubt that, and I really think that the municipalities must decide whether they want housing or whether they want polluting industries. It may be that you have to offer a profession to move somewhere else if you want to develop with housing in an area. So to me, it is a little irresponsible to go out and say that now you just have to be able to stop opening windows when there is smell and dust and air pollution. Isn't it better to get the pollution out of where people live? Now that I have listened to the rapporteurs before me, I can hear that both the alternative, SF, Enhedslisten and we are asking questions about this, and I also heard some uncertainty from the Social Democrat rapporteur. So if we could actually change this a little bit, I would actually rather we cut it a little and see if there should just be a derogation in some places, for example. is a port area where there is some industry that is very dependent on the port or whatever it may be, rather than giving it this permission. I would actually rather than share it, that we cleaned it up a little, and there I think we might also talk to other parties here in the Folketing, who think it is important that we do not let people live in an area where they cannot open the windows because there is smell, dust and air pollution. So we are waiting for this proposal and will ensure in committee that questions are asked about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012104257	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012104308	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, is a follow-up to the draft law, and I will not be here to recapitulate all the elements, but just briefly mention some of the proposals. Among other things: It is proposed that in future municipalities should undertake strategic planning in relation to the villages when drawing up the municipal plan. I think that's really good. It can be said that it should, of course, be a natural part of the work on the municipal plans in the municipalities, but nevertheless it has been felt by Viable Villages that it is necessary and recommended that it be laid down by law that this obligation be given to the municipalities, and we do so with this proposal, and I think that is quite reasonable. Then there is a proposal for expropriation, which is also recommended by the Committee on Expropriation, which will increase transparency for citizens. In addition, this sunset clause will also be made, which means that citizens have a greater time horizon for possible expropriation. I think that is very sensible. This will help to increase the legal certainty of citizens and, in general, to increase transparency. Then the draft law also contains a number of other initiatives, such as: About here with summer houses on Læsø. It is clear that if you live in an area where there is depopulation, where there are fewer inhabitants, there will be some houses empty. That is where I think it is very sensible if you can use them for summer houses for part of the year. It provides some activity in smaller communities and it can create opportunities for the development of some industry and some tourism at times when you might otherwise not be able to. So I think that is very sensible. Then there is an initiative on the planning of construction in areas which are subject to dust, noise and air pollution, and here too I think that a sensible balance has been found in the legislative proposal, which takes account of the existing industry on the one hand and creates the possibility of developing new housing areas on the other. So we can support that too and, of course, we can support the entire draft law from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012104510	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs, but the Minister for Business ends. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012104521	Thank you for your comments, and also for your comments in the area on which we do not entirely agree, and which is probably the main element of the legislative proposal which deals with housing in areas of smell, dust and other air pollution. But most of the draft law seems to have very broad agreement on that, and I am pleased about that. It is, of course, a legislative proposal which contains a number of different elements, and therefore also a legislative proposal with a rather long name if you include what is in parentheses. But there you can see everything it's about. If we start with strategic planning for villages, I understood it in that way that there was full support for it from all parties. It is also sensible, because it is a good proposal in which we focus on the country's villages and village communities and follow up the recommendations of the Committee on viable villages to commit municipalities to strategic planning so that they actively decide how the villages of the municipality should be developed. And I myself think that is a very good idea, also because there are many municipalities where you may have villages, but where they may not necessarily dominate in the municipality. It is important that they are also remembered. I see it as an essential tool for promoting local political discussion on where and how local development will and can be created in villages and rural areas in order to have viable and attractive villages. So thank you for your support for that. Then there was the question of expropriation to implement local plans. There we want to improve the legal status of citizens, and we are taking a step further by following up the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation for amendments to the law on plans. We propose to introduce greater transparency for citizens about expropriation by writing directly to the law of plans that expropriation should only be carried out in favour of general public interests. As such, it is not something that changes the local authority's legal status. As such, it will be as it is in advance, but now we write it directly into the planning law, so it is clear, even when working with the planning law, so that one remembers only to expropriate to sensible general public interests. In addition, a five-year deadline for expropriation is also proposed following a local plan, so that citizens are given greater predictability in relation to whether they may be expropriated. I know there are many parties that have had as a great wish, and I am so glad we can accommodate that. Then there is the question of housing in areas suffering from smell, dust or other air pollution. It is, after all, an attempt to meet the growing demand for housing in the larger cities. I think everyone knows that it is especially Aarhus Municipality that has pressed for them to be allowed to build some homes down in their harbour area. After a long discussion, where there have been a great many parties and where we have tried to achieve as broad a consensus as possible, it would seem that a relatively broad consensus can be reached on the possibility of housing being built on land that is subject to odour, dust or other air pollution, if there are air-tight windows, but at the same time also air flow and access to open spaces. We adjust the rules so that municipalities continue to have the opportunity to plan and secure a mixed city with different urban functions, i.e. restaurants, pizzerias and the like, and with application side by side with housing. I think this is a good compromise. You could have gone further. Some people, for example, have wanted us to do this. could also build balconies in areas where there are air nuisances. There has not yet been a broad enough consensus on this, so that we will include it in the draft law. We stress that it is not just narrow interests that push something through, but that we are trying to reach agreement both in the municipalities concerned and in other actors who are interested in this, including, of course, the business community, so that no one is at risk of suddenly being chased away from their businesses. Then we have the proposal for summer houses on Læsø. It is the case that there are already a large number of islands where you are allowed to use holiday homes for a full year's residence, and we also give Læsø the opportunity to do so, so that they can attract more residents. Hopefully, this can contribute to a favourable development on the island. I did not notice that there was any objection to it from any of the parties in the Folketing. Finally, we have the element of marine planning. It is about Denmark having a comprehensive physical plan for how we develop the sea by 2021. The plan shall promote economic growth, the development of marine areas and the use of marine resources in a sustainable manner. In order to ensure that the upcoming marine plan provides a full picture of the plans for the use of the Danish marine waters, we add transport infrastructure to the list of sectors for which planning is required. This means that, in concrete terms, if we now believe that at some point we should build what should we say 'a Kattegat bridge or a bridge over to Sweden at Helsingør', then there is the possibility of reserving some areas for it, so that it is ensured that no windmills, for example, are built that stand in the middle of it and thus make it difficult to build those connections later on. We also propose the possibility of the marine plan being designed as a digital map. This assumes that the marine plan can be exempted from publication in the Lovtidende, as it is not technically possible to publish digital maps through the Lovtidende. A future digital solution we believe will give the public and the authorities easier access to the marine plan. So we play with open cards and everyone can see what's in them. There were some things that various rapporteurs asked for clarification through the committee procedure, and of course we are at our disposal for that. I look forward to the continued examination of the proposal, but thank you for your support so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105212	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105215	Thank you. Up through the 1970s, we were the first country in the world to have a pollution minister and a pollution legislation, later an environmental legislation. And up through the 1980s and 1990s we managed a large proportion of the very violent pollutions that came from point sources, typically industry. And there was a healthy principle, which is also enshrined in EU legislation today, that pollution must be stopped at source and that it is the polluter who has to pay. It is therefore the polluter who is responsible for reducing pollution to the absolute minimum. And it will be controlled by the authorities and followed up if not. That is why it is a very violent thing that lies in this proposal, namely that you actually turn it upside down and say that if there is pollution in an area, we can still build homes in which people can live, as long as they are dense. Does it not worry the Minister that this proposal to build housing in such an area and in such a way as to allow companies to have pollution that is bothering us and that we simply shut our citizens away instead of shutting pollution inside the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105328	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105329	In fact, I think it is to turn things upside down, because there is no question of companies being allowed to move into residential areas. These are companies that are already in the area. So those who could feel chased away are really companies. 'Cause they're already there, and then there's going to be some homes. And the concern of companies is that later, by building housing in an area, some people risk coming and saying that they must not be there because they are hurting those who now live there. Well, we have to have companies in Denmark, and we also have to accept that some forms of production in Denmark cause some local air pollution. There doesn't have to be a problem with that. Well, I don't think there's a problem with a bakery, and then there's bread in the local area. I think there should be room for that. This is, after all, an attempt to find a compromise in which it is said that companies should be allowed to stay, but there are also some who can benefit from some very, very attractive port areas, for example, by being allowed to live there. And they can choose not to. If you as a citizen do not find it attractive to live there, at least there is no compulsion to live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105443	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105445	But we do have good planning for that in the planning law today, that is to say that you have residential areas, you have business areas, and that is precisely separate in order to keep track of what genes should be where. So it's a healthy principle that we've been working on for a long time, and in my view, this actually creates a slippery path towards saying: Well, if this company expands and needs to have a greater strain on, for example. smell and noise, etc., so we can just shut the citizens in the homes by closing them to the air. This is the slippery slope that I am very concerned about in this proposal and that is why we are very critical of it. We propose either to divide up the bill or, as Mrs Ida Auken suggested, to look at whether this can be done in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105535	I would say that there is, of course, a very, very thorough attempt and for a very long time also to find the best possible compromise, and that is what the draft law here expresses. I understand the concern, I understand the views, but I think it is a balanced compromise that has been put forward here, where there is room for both citizens and businesses. I do not think there is anyone who loses by giving the opportunity to build some homes that you can then choose to move into or that you can choose not to move into.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105609	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181012105632	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 October 2018, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
