ParlaMint-DK_20181220090013	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 134 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc.) Employment Minister (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill No. L 135 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions and the Law on the highest, middle, higher general and ordinary early retirement pensions, etc.) Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 73 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a recycling criterion in the Procurement Act) and No. B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of the recycling of building and construction waste in general housing). Finn Sørensen (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Request no. F 33 (What can the Minister say about the consequences of the introduction of a ceiling for cash benefits, 225-hour rule and repatriation allowance?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090126	The items entered in items 6, 14, 16 and 23 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090151	No amendments have been tabled following the interruption of the third reading. The debate is open and the first to speak is the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, for an oral recommendation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090204	All I have to say on behalf of the Committee on Finance is that the amendments have been dealt with correctly and that we can proceed with the examination of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090226	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090236	Thank you. The alternative has said that we will explain our position at third reading. During yesterday's debate, my good colleague, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Minister for Finance, whether this Finance Act does enough for the climate. And after a little dialogue back and forth, we got an explanation that it does, among other things. because there will be climate labelling. We interpret this as saying that the government believes that this financial law is being done enough and that the rest is up to the consumers, that is to say, to take the right climate choices, and that there is a great deal of discussion about climate labelling. When we start making it, there will be a lot of debate about whether we can even make such a climate label that makes sense. We are convinced that this financial law does not do enough for the climate at all, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090339	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Nobody wants to make a brief comment. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090350	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour of 100 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF, KF and IA), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090420	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090437	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF). The vote is over. In favour 43 (S, EL and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2, also tabled by Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 by the Minister for Finance, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090528	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090544	Here, too, I should just like to explain our position, which follows what we have for L 1. So we are also voting against L 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090548	Thank you. No one else wants to speak. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090554	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090624	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090708	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 and 6 of the Finance Minister as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and voting is possible. That's it. For the vote 42 (S, EL and SF), against 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2-4 also tabled by Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) as rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 and 8 of the Minister for Finance as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090817	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090824	Here, too, I shall explain our position, which follows the one we have for L 1, so we shall vote against L 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090834	Thank you. We shall then vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and we shall be able to vote on it. The vote is over. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090902	No amendments have been tabled. Is there anyone who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090932	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220090959	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091016	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstained 0 The bill has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091058	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 99 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091136	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091144	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091218	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091304	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091317	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091348	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091358	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091434	No amendments have been tabled. I can see that there are some who would like to make a statement. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091453	Thank you. There has been a lot of debate on this bill, and so we in the Danish People's Party would like to make a few comments on it. The Danish People's Party supports the bill, of course, and there are a number of elements in it. The first and most important thing is that applicants for Danish citizenship must shake hands with an official at a ceremony to obtain citizenship. It is the position of the Danish People's Party that you should of course shake hands and thus thank you when you acquire citizenship. Of course, if you do not want it, you should not have Danish citizenship. Nor is this the case if, for example, one does not want to shake hands on Islamic religious cleanness because the one to hand is woman, unbeliever or unclean. We simply do not think this is something that we should attach weight to by the Folketing or outside municipal and local authorities. When these basic ceremonies are done, one simply has to conform and accept that here in Denmark it is so that if a person reaches out to another person, that person naturally takes his hand. That is the way to show respect. The second element on which the Danish People's Party has put its mark is that the fee for obtaining citizenship is now being increased. The Danish People's Party considers it reasonable that people who acquire Danish citizenship and who, moreover, have to be self-supporting contribute to the costs associated with it. And the third element is that there is control over how many people are coming and how many are missing from the language courses in Danish. So we support it from the Danish People's Party. We are surprised, however, that the Social Democratic Party has thrown itself into a second round of slingshops here too. Vote yes! After all, the social democracy itself has been out in the media and has said that they think it is actually a good move. They think it is quite reasonable to shake hands with an official, of course. But if you really mean it, you have to vote in favour of the bill and you do not vote in favour of the bill, it must be because, in the end, you do not really mean it. The Danish People's Party will certainly vote in favour, and we will do so with a clear conscience. If you want to become a Danish citizen, you must also acquire Danish values and Danish culture. And there it is quite common to show respect for another person, and if there is one who raises his hand, one obviously accepts it and refuses to accept it, it is because one does not show the appropriate amount of respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091705	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091712	I would like to put a fundamental question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: where is the limit of this behavioral police which is now interfering in my entire life? Now we are going to discuss what kind of food we are going to eat, what clothes we are going to wear, and now also whether I should shake hands with some people I don't know or don't want to shake hands with. Is there no limit to the almost totalitarian view of society that lies behind the fact that legislation should determine everything about how I should behave in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091745	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091752	The legislation does not determine everything, and I do not understand the way Mr. Christian Juhl makes it on. For the reality is that some people who have Muslim background have come to this country, I am not talking about all of them now, but some of them, and they are the ones who are trying to dictate how we should live our lives here in Denmark. I think that what we are doing on the part of the Danish Parliament and on the part of the Danish People's Party is simply that we push a little again the other way, that we say that we think it is wrong if there is such a clean-up idea that men and women are not worth as much, etc., that there is something that is allowed and something that is forbidden on the basis of such a religious notion, an Islamic idea. We think it is wrong if that is what should, for example, be the norm-making factor for how we conduct a constitutional ceremony in Denmark. It shouldn't be. Then, of course, it is also a problem that in the past there have been some unwritten rules that we have all basically accepted, because we have had a culture in common, a form of association that we have been used to, and the unwritten rules sometimes need to be written down because some people have come here who do not want to respect them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091845	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091849	The rapporteur used the words 'need to conform' in his speech. I was born in a liberal society where we try to have a quality that says that we are different people, and I cannot understand that there should be laws for what kind of clothes I have to wear, or what kind of food I have to eat or my children have to eat in kindergarten, and now also as crazy a thing as if you have to shake hands when you meet people. I do not understand why the parties that call themselves liberal will be involved in this kind of tyranny or almost the unification of our society, which is happening in these years. I don't understand. I don't understand why I have to live in a society in the way that I don't get my personal freedom as I always had it. It just needs to be systematically reduced. I think it's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091938	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220091942	I'd be happy to admit that this isn't very liberal, but sir. Christian Juhl asked the liberals. The Danish People's Party is not a liberal party, we are a national and conservative party, and we have no objection to there being a framework and there being some guidelines in relation to how to act in Danish society. We think that is quite reasonable. In relation to what is eaten in day-care institutions etc., the discussion comes from the fact that some have come to Denmark, which we have accepted, which we have been hospitable to, and then they come and dictate what is to be eaten in day-care institutions. There must be no such thing as pork, it must be halal-slaughtered, etc. So let us say that we cannot allow ourselves to come here and decide, and that is what this discussion is all about. Then it is also the expression that if you meet a public representative in connection with you being a Danish citizen, it is reasonable that you show respect, and so you do, by reaching out your hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092031	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092037	I just want to ask sir. Martin Henriksen, about Mr. Martin Henriksen believes that it is respect that in religious communities men and women sit separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092053	Suit yourself. It is within a religious community, so if you do such a thing somewhere, you have to do it yourself. But if, for example, they go to a constitutional ceremony like what we are discussing here, it is not a religious ceremony, but it is a constitutional ceremony. And it should not be the case that, for example, Islamic rules must be decisive in how we are to run a constitutional ceremony in Denmark. But what you do inside a religion, you have to do it on your own.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092113	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092117	This means that it really has nothing to do with respect or not; it is a purely symbolic thing. For respect for the opposite sex one can undermine the moment one assumes the place. So it's pure symbol, and it has nothing to do with real respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092135	Yes, it has exactly something to do with respect. That's basically what's all the hops in it. I'm just pointing out that this is the attitude of the Danish People's Party that there is a difference between a religious act inside a religion and a constitutional ceremony that we are discussing here. For a constitutional ceremony is not a religious act and so there is a crucial difference. And yes, you could call this a symbol. It's a symbol of respect, and symbols mean something. Dannebrog is a symbol, and it means incredibly much to many Danes and for good reason. So symbols mean something, of course, and it's basically about showing respect. And there are too many people who have come to our country and cannot find out, and now we tell them how to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092212	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments to make on the rapporteur. It's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092228	Thank you. Personally, I also believe that it is an old-fashioned attitude when a man does not want to shake hands with a woman. In a world where gender equality is one of 17 worldwide goals, it is glaringly wrong not to shake hands with a woman. I've seen it myself once. I tried to reach out to a man who wouldn't shake hands, and I thought it was a very strange situation to stand in. There are many things written in sacred books that have been varied over time in practice. But the government and the Danish People's Party have stared blindly and grievously at men who were not allowed to shake hands with women mayors, and therefore, by law, they will now force on a handshake without glove, palm-to-hand, as the bill says. We simply see in these years a crusade for the preservation of what some define as Danish values, as they are understood by the Danish People's Party in particular and in part by the government and partly by the Social Democratic Party. You must shake hands if you are a Danish citizen, you must not cover your face to be served traditional Danish food in crèches. But when we are so busy defining the Danish values, we forget the most important of them all: open-minded, the fact that we in this country have a very special tradition of tolerating attitudes that differ from the common perception of norms and traditions, and that is exactly what this bill is all about. Because if women are not treated equally by people who have a very traditional and patriarchal view of gender, then it must be challenged. It must be debated and challenged by us politicians, by the media and by the citizens. This does not alter the fact that this phenomenon is the expression of an attitude that is as different and socially disturbing as all sorts of other attitudes that we are used to tolerating. The Community in Denmark is strengthened when it holds different positions and confronts them critically, not when it suppresses minority positions. We can just look at how Denmark was the first country to allow pornography, introduced registered partnership for homosexuals and removed transsexuals from the WHO list of mentally ill people. We have one of the most viable democracies in the world because we do not suppress positions by law, but because we fight them with words. Because we already know: attitudes do not disappear just because we close the door. We just believe it while we sit back complacent and rub our beards while our critical senses become dull and dull. Because if we simply ban everything by law, we do not have to pay attention and take a critical view of what we are experiencing. And what kind of society are we left with? I would like to take this opportunity to read out a letter which Billy O'Shea, who is Irish and lives in Denmark, has written to the Committee on the Rights of the Child in the Danish Parliament, and I have been allowed by Billy to read the letter today. It's L 80, Annex 7, and it sounds like this: "To the Committee on the Rights of Citizens I am 61 years old and come from Ireland, and I am one of the many foreigners who are currently seeking Danish citizenship. I recently passed the birth test. I am writing to the Committee on the Rights of the Child because I am concerned because of the proposal that all new Danish citizens should be forced to shake hands with representatives of the authority. I have lived in Denmark since 1981 and have been self-supporting since day 1 and have never accepted social assistance of any kind. I've worked hard, I've paid taxes all over the years, I don't have any debts to the government, and I don't have a criminal record. I have always loved Denmark and the Danish culture, and that is why I have stayed here and tried to make Denmark my home. I'm not religious, and I'm happy to shake hands with everyone. Queen Margrethe gave me her hand in 2000 when I received the University of Copenhagen gold medal, and I was very honoured by the privilege. However, in my opinion, a hand-out, in order to be an expression of mutual respect, must necessarily be voluntary. You can't force respect by law. The idea is, in my view, rather unanswerable. I have great respect for the mayor of Copenhagen, Frank Jensen, and for his office. I'd be happy to shake his hand under other circumstances. But I also have respect for myself, and I do not intend that my first act as a citizen of a democratic country should be to renounce something as fundamental as the right to control my own body. Therefore, if this proposal is allowed, I will refuse to shake hands during the ceremony. And if it costs me my citizenship, that's it. If so, it is not worth the price. Of course one should be grateful, as we foreigners constantly hear, for having the opportunity to acquire Danish citizenship. But we must be equal citizens in a democratic country, we must not fall on our knees. A little gratitude the other way might also be appropriate. As Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's Prime Minister, said recently: "Scotland is your home, you are welcome here, and we appreciate your contribution to Scotland's economy, society and culture. How nice it would be if a Danish politician ever said something like this to us. For example, at a welcome ceremony for new citizens. See, this would be a backup! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092727	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092750	What rules and registration requirements in the public sector do you think are superfluous? This question has been asked by the government in the campaign...Meld a rule to get input on how to lug out into the rule jungle and free time for welfare, and apparently there are a lot of superfluous rules, for the government has already received 1,200 different proposals. And now you get another rule from the Radical Left. The Minister for Innovation has said, and I quote: the government is concerned about weeding out in trouble and bureaucracy in the public sector. That is why we have called on citizens, employees, professional organisations and companies to point out superfluous rules and registration requirements which they would like to see abolished. If there is something superfluous, then it is that the Folketing not only legislates about how it should not solve the real problems of equality, but it has spent the parliamentary time, it has spent the government's time, the ministry's time, and it will also spend the time of the municipalities. That is why I would like to report it to the Minister for Innovation now before a majority adopts the handshake law in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220092922	After all, this bill has given rise to a great deal of debate, and so far it has also been in this Chamber today. Actually, I have a lot of respect for that. I also have great respect for the fact that the Danish People's Party goes up and defends this legislation, that the alternative goes up and speaks right against, and so does the Radical Left. That is how it should be in a democracy. What puzzles me is, of course, where on earth social democracy is in all this. That may surprise me a tiny bit. I think it is relatively easy to decide whether you think that when you are going to have a Danish citizenship, it should be followed by a ceremony in which everything can be said to be clear as soon as you shake hands. It was the same when we were at the negotiations this summer. I can well remember that summer day when we were sitting there, and there was no doubt whatsoever about where the Social Democratic Party was in this matter. Then I simply do not know what has happened since then. In fact, the Social Democrats do not even take part in the debate, and that is what is so unfortunate. Because it could be so incredibly nice when you have a party that calls itself a Prime Minister's candidate party that you could at least decide whether you think there should be a constitutional ceremony when people have to have Danish citizenship and whether you should simply shake hands. But you can understand that is an excessive, far too big, issue for the Social Democrats at the moment, so that they choose to vote yellow. It has to be said that yellow has become the new color of the Social Democratic Party. Last night they voted yellow all the way through, in relation to Lindholm, and in total they voted yellow and yellow. So it is not only in France where it is so well enough symbolized by yellow vests. Here it is just symbolized by the fact that you simply do not know which button to vote for, and then you just vote yellow. But perhaps I think that in terms of something as central as how we should ensure that the people who acquire Danish citizenship also take Denmark into account should be able to decide in a party that wants to deliver a prime minister after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093149	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093155	Thank you for putting yourself on the platform. I understand, sir. Martin Henriksen is not a citizen or a liberal. He may be a citizen, but he is not a liberal, he is a national conservative, as he calls it, and some of them want to take small corners of totalitarian societies and push them into liberal society. I would like to put the same question to the Minister, who declares himself liberal: where is the limit to what the Minister and others want to limit my life? Should I both have rules about what to eat, what clothes to wear, and now also about when to shake hands? What is next, or are there any limits to how far away from liberalism and the liberal freedoms you want to go in your persistent follow-up The Danish People's Party on a national conservative path?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093246	In fact, in my opinion, this is a very, very serious issue. It is a question of the fact that when you want to choose a country, in this case Denmark, you want to call yourself a Dane, I think it is also appropriate that at the moment you become a Dane, of course, you should also show the gratitude that lies in the fact that you take part in a constitutional ceremony, and at the moment you shake hands is the moment you become a Dane. I do not think this is a question of restricting anyone's freedom, I have to say. I think that is quite general respect for the country that has now been chosen. After all, no one has forced any of these people to become Danes. They have chosen Denmark as the country they want to belong to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093341	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093345	I also chose to stay in Denmark when I was young because society was a system based on democratic, open liberal views, as other rapporteurs have pointed out. And I ask a representative of the Danish Liberal Party: Where is the limit to what you want to limit my freedom with? This law applies to me, too. It applies to all Danes. There are not many Danes who want you to decide how we live our lives, what we eat, what clothes we wear, etc. It is a very serious question to discuss liberalism, yes, but an honest answer to that question. This is just as totalitarian as the Danish military is designed; you are gradually starting to regulate everything in our lives, and none of us want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093431	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093435	This legislation includes the people who want to become Danes. That's the way it is, sir. Christian Juhl. Once again, I can only say that I think it is quite appropriate that we should take part in a constitutional ceremony, in which we are just signing that we are now taking on the foundation, the very foundation of freedoms on which Denmark is founded and which generations before us have laid. And it is a foundation that allows you to believe in exactly the god you want, that you can express yourself exactly as you want, that there is complete equality between the sexes, girls and boys, women and men are equally worthless. The fact that when you become a Danish citizen, of course you shake hands with the representative of the authorities who is there, I think it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093524	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093530	Thank you, Minister. I would have been seriously concerned about the Minister if she had not gone up and wondered where the Social Democracy had gone. I would just like to say that the Minister knows very well where the Social Democratic Party stands. We're standing where we were when we negotiated this. Of course you have to shake hands. That's the way we show respect for each other, tall as low, thick as thin, man as a woman. That is one part of the discussion, and it is true that this proposal has aroused a lot of discussion, even far into the Minister's own party. However, it is the second part of the discussion which is the very big crunch and which also gives rise to disagreement among the Minister's own party colleagues, who are mayors, namely whether the legislation is the way forward here. So the Minister should have no doubt about where Social Democracy stands, about whether to shake hands and about whether it is an expression of respect. The disagreement is about whether we should legislate on this, what the Folketing should use its legislative power for. That's why we're voting yellow for this bill. We warmly support the new rules on citizenship that we have made together. We warmly support the local ceremonies. It will be very good to have a local anchoring and a celebration of getting Danish citizenship, but we think that we as Parliament should consider what we are using the legislative power for. I say that in line with good, wise mayors of the Left. So the Minister can stand on the platform and try to pretend that this is only something that has raised a debate in the Social Democratic Party. However, far into the good Left, one also shakes one's head over the fact that the Folketing is using its legislative power for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093646	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093649	It is a bit as if the Social Democrats are very much behind everything at the moment, until you have to vote, because then you do not support everything as warmly as you do. Then you only back up a little, or at least you will not vote against it, but you will not vote in favour either. You back up, I think I'll say your own way. Social democracy has begun to support much in its own way. A third exit centre was also warmly supported, so not so that you voted in favour, but then you backed in some way. It's kind of the same thing we're seeing now. I'm sorry, but it's a little awkward. It is simply a little slow to have a party that wants to put forward with a Prime Minister's candidate, and then you cannot decide whether you are voting for a constitutional ceremony or against a constitutional ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093746	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093750	Fortunately, it is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but the Danes who have to decide what is wrong and not wrong, and what is pointing in the right direction when we talk about the forthcoming elections and about who is going to take over the Prime Minister's Office. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration can draw what she wants. One can hear the debate in this Chamber at first reading, one can read in the press, one can google or go on Infomedia, or how one now prefers to pick it up, and one can also read in the report we have presented, where it is perfectly clear where the Social Democracy stands. We appreciate these local constitutional ceremonies. We look forward to their implementation and, of course, we need to shake hands. Where we think the chain is jumping off, and where we actually think it is going to be a bit of a problem for the prestige of the parliament in the population, when we start to adopt legislation that says that hand against hand, palm against palm, you have to shake hands at these ceremonies. Well, you can find out locally. That is also what sensible, lonely Left Mayors have been trying to appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration recently, and that is what makes the Social Democrats vote yellow. We warmly support the agreement we have made ourselves, but we cannot vote in favour of this legislation on handshakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093851	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093854	I understand that it is quite clear where S stands, namely right in the middle of it all. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093901	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093904	In other words, I can agree with the Minister's criticism of the Social Democratic Party. It is also strange that we cannot have the opportunity to ask questions about social democracy. In other words, it is very strange that you are opposed to legislation, but that you will not vote against it: we are very opposed to this legislation. I mean, it's weird. But that does not make the bill we are about to vote on any better, because this bill is not about respect; this bill is about hypocrisy. And so I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that the person who is deeply discriminatory towards the other sex and slanders Denmark and all sorts of things can go in and shake hands with a female mayor and then go out and continue to discriminate and continue to slander Denmark. In short, it is not a question of respect, it is a question of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220093958	I would like to say that I have a great deal of respect for the fact that the Enhedslisten is taking the debate because one could then also have gone up on the platform, you might say, and then have taken the debate from up here. Having said that, however, I have great respect for the fact that Enhedslisten is taking the debate and would like to take part in it. Then we can disagree on some things. But having said that, there's a lot more in this bill than a handshake, and it's kind of forgotten. It has been completely forgotten that you have to sign a document that makes you take Denmark to heart; that you have to sign that you take the very foundation to heart. It is, in fact, at the heart of this legislation, namely that you sign that you take the foundation of everything, from freedom of religion, freedom of expression to equality, and that you saw, of course, when you then become a Danish citizen, thank you for it by handing over to the official who is now in charge of the ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094054	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094114	Thank you. Thank you for running here too. I think it makes good sense to stress it, since it is written down by law as one of the two main changes in the law, i.e. the handshake. I think it makes good sense that it is also being taken up, and that is not mentioned in this debate in disproportionately large measure. Then I would just like to say that the Minister now mentions that thanks are being given for citizenship by shaking hands. I thought it was a prerequisite for gaining citizenship to shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094147	Well, it is. But there is also the fact that, with respect, of course, we are grateful for the citizenship that has been acquired. But it is quite true that it is a prerequisite for obtaining Danish citizenship that you shake hands. It is only at the moment that the handshake falls that you become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094208	Then it is certainly not a thank you for citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094214	So, frankly, Danish citizenship is something for which we are grateful. It is a symbolic act, of course, that you take the whole foundation to heart, and that is also what is involved in signing the document, which is going to be fine and fine in front of you. That is what lies in the ceremony itself. And then it is basically just ordinary Danish form of association to thank with a handshake afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094245	Thank you. And then I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Søren Søndergaard just the word again I just have to ask that you remember to press in, so I know up here that you want the word. It didn't just happen, but here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094253	Fortunately, I have a key witness next door, because I pressed and pressed and pressed. And I'd like you to replace this device, because what's the point of printing when you can't see it up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094310	Can I just say to Mr. Simpson? Søren Søndergaard, that I also have an excellent colleague here, and I can prove that it did not bounce out on the screen. But it may be that we have to move, sir. Søren Søndergaard to the opposite side of the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094320	Now the President is getting mean. I would like to say that I think that Mrs Inger Løjberg completely confirmed what was my point, namely that it is hypocrisy. And it doesn't get any better because you sign a whole lot and you have to say one thing and the other and you have to do one thing and the other, it doesn't get less hypocrisy. The question is whether people behave and the question is how we ensure that people behave properly. We do not ensure this by asking them to give a handshake that they can give on false terms in their own perception: this is what I do here only for Danish citizenship. That is the problem that this proposal does not address, and that is why, unfortunately, it is hypocrisy. I am glad that the Minister actually confirmed that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094417	I think it was in sir. Søren Søndergaard's world. But having said that, I must admit that to go up and sign a document stating that you are taking the foundation into account is, frankly, to take a big step. Then you can say: can you not just sign it and will it have any meaning at all? I can say that quite a few weeks ago I was in a debate with Hizb ut-Tahir's spokesman, one of those who said that he would not be able to sign such a document. He would not be able to become a Danish citizen today, because he would not be able to accept the very foundations. I asked him if he would advise his followers in Hizb ut-Tahrir not to sign, and he would. Because if you have a conviction like his, you won't be able to sign this document and that's exactly what we want with the actual constitutional ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094513	Thank you. There are no more comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094523	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 30 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094611	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094628	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 23 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094657	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094718	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094802	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220094818	Thank you for that, President. I would say that this case has been a messy and very difficult one in every way. It is originally an agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party that wants to provide more tax relief, paid by people on daily allowances. I have no doubt for a second that this has not taken very long to discuss at the negotiating table, because I certainly do not think it has been very thorough when this agreement was made. It is also clear that it is in fact extremely important to have a committee procedure so that as much as possible can be clarified and made much wiser about what this will mean for ordinary Danish employees. I also think that from the platform I would like to thank everyone, both Danes living at home, Danes travelling abroad, companies, trade unions, associations and many others for all their e-mails and their efforts to make us more aware of what the proposal will mean to them. For them, there have been many of them. I would also like to thank Danish coffers for standing out in the cold for several days to demonstrate against this. I think that's really good. I have to say that I am still missing a great many answers, not because the questions have not been asked, nor because the Minister has not replied. We should not blame him for this, he has certainly done so, but because I do not think that those answers really reassure me, so I can say that this proposal is okay and that we can vote in favour. I'm still very worried about how many this actually hits and how many people lose the right to benefit. The last time a bourgeois government had to judge how many people went out after an allowance change was in 2010. And here I think we all know the answer to that miscalculation. There's also the brexite thing. For what does this mean for all the Danes who work there? What does that mean when it's solved sometime? Can people get their sickness benefits, and can you come home and get maternity? Who can, and who can't? Of course, many of these things are also worrying. Something that floats in the air is whether the cashiers can actually manage it here, whether the cashiers and their members can prove that they have fulfilled their residence requirements when they have been working in third countries, and thus get the cash benefits to which they are entitled. Actually, I think this is sailing. I think, as I have said several times here from the platform, both for the first reading and also for the question debate, that it is a sloppy piece of work which should be withdrawn and made more intelligent and even better. At second reading, the government then drew forward the proposal, which I also put forward on the platform for the first reading, to make a residence requirement called 7 out of 12 years, which I later withdrew. And yes, we have voted in favour of this, as it is an improvement for many Danes. But that does not solve all the problems that it has proved to be, and we have seen that through the committee procedure because of what I said before. But let us take an example. The Minister said to me at a hearing on 14 November about how difficult it would be for the cashiers to administer the residence requirement: if the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party, which is 7 out of 12 years old, is going to work, it will not exactly be easy to administer. It was then before the government even made the proposal. And then the government came up with the proposal, and now in the answer to Question 76 the Minister has defended this proposal. That is the answer: all in all, this amendment will facilitate the processing of cashiers.....Those are two conflicting arguments. And this makes me even more worried about whether or not you can actually manage it, and whether the cashiers and these members have the opportunity to prove that they have been abroad, and thus can receive cash benefits even if they meet the residence requirement in such a way. And that's why we're very, very worried about it. At the same time, the government and the Danish People's Party write that this proposal escapes with the consultation response from the LO and the FTF, and the Minister says at second reading that it responds to the criticism raised by the LO and FTF in the hearing response. I must say that has been sharply cut, that is to say, the word flees and accommodates. Because if you read the hearing answer and now I know that, of course, not everyone in here has read the hearing answers, all the consultation answers are about 86 pages. You can read that they want at least the 7 out of 12 years change, but want the bill to be withdrawn and reviewed, as it undermines a flexible Danish labour market as they write. And they also write that they believe that the safeguards that are today against abuse of the benefit system are fine and therefore do not want any change. That's what that hearing answer says. So the fact that it is actually escaping and responding to the hearing answer is a question mark. I would say that this is a minister in the back crawl, it is a minister who has a difficult case. This can be seen, as I said in the debate on the question. At the same time, the Minister refused to follow the proposal, that is to say what we made then, because there would be a lack of funding, since the money was spent on tax cuts. But now, all of a sudden, you can do it. Now you choose to keep the tax cuts and then take it from the room in 2019. Well, now all of a sudden, welfare has to pay for these tax cuts. The government also believes that most of the money is to be found in the future because there is also some residual money, and as you are missing, you can go to the Finance Act next year, i.e. after the next parliamentary elections; that is what the government says. In other words, the problem is being pushed over to the next government that is coming, even though one ought to admit that here we have done a really bad job and should actually withdraw it. I'd say this doesn't seem very financially responsible. I have said this several times on the platform, and you can also read these things in our report's contribution: we are in favour of a residence requirement, we are in favour of profit principles, but it must be done properly. And that is why we will withdraw the proposal if we come to, and we will do it here with the social partners in a more intelligent way, because we would like to have the residence requirement, but there are simply too many things that are messing up and that work needs to be done properly. We will vote against the proposal, but we will still hope that the proposal will be withdrawn and dealt with better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095504	Thank you. Then there are some brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095510	Thanks for the call. It is very good that, through the examination of this proposal, it has become increasingly clear to the Social Democratic Party that what the government has put forward is unacceptable. It is also good that thanks have not been paid to the small improvement that was proposed, but which the government has subsequently taken on board. However, the rapporteur says that this has already been said from the platform that it will not be voted for. I now have some doubts as to whether it has been said that it will be abolished at the earliest opportunity. At least that has been said in the media. But maybe it would be good if we heard this from the platform too. So my question is actually quite simple: will the Socialists, if there is a new social democratic government with a majority behind it, abolish this claim on the first occasion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095607	I understand that sir. Pelle Dragsted can't keep up with everything, but we had a query debate down here. It was a Friday. There weren't many people where I said it from the platform. It is also quite clear in the report's contribution what we want. But yes, if we come to power, we will withdraw it immediately, and then we will sit down with the social partners and make a better proposal and look at how we can do it sensibly so that we can clear out all the issues I talked about before but of course still away with the aim of making a residence requirement because we are precisely in favour of income principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095639	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095643	Yes, and that is where you can get a little bit worried, because it is a little free to say that you want a residence requirement, but not very clear about what that residence requirement should entail. Of course, it makes me a little less worried that it should happen with the social partners, because fortunately we have seen how employees' organisations have been very, very clear on this issue. Perhaps the Socialists' change of attitude along the way has also had that background, and it is, of course, positive when ordinary people can make a difference politically. But can the rapporteur answer whether the social partners, if I may say so, have a right of veto, or can we risk that the Socialists will come up with a slightly lower version of this residence requirement and then roll over the members of the trade union movement, even if they refuse to accept that this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095731	I don't think you're generally using that thing with a right of veto for others outside. When we say it's with the social partners, it's because of course we want to sit with them and listen to them and see how to do this better. For it is clear that what is stated in the LO and the FTF's hearing answer is of concern to many people. We can also see it in much of what Danske A-kasses have sent. It is true that if it turns out that it is just difficult to manage, and if it turns out that it is difficult to prove whether you have been abroad, whether your spouse has been out and all those things, then we simply have to do better, and I think that the social partners are the right ones to tell us about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095801	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095808	Thank you. It's hard to know what the Social Democrats really think about this case. In fact, at first reading, there were positive voices. There was a question of whether we could agree on whether it should be 7 out of 10 years or 7 out of 12 years. So there was support on the part of the Social Democratic Party. Later, it has been turned to the fact that we now have to understand that the Social Democratic Party is actually voting against a residence requirement and income principles. Nevertheless, I understand from the rapporteur today that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats are in favour of a residence requirement and of the principles of recovery, but not on this issue. In other words, we just have to note that the Social Democratic Party does not want to help protect the Danish unemployment benefit system. We just have to make that clear. They do not want to protect the Danish benefit system, but you can say: Well, if it becomes a different model, you want to, but not exactly this one. It's a totally free round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095912	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220095915	Well, that's not true, and it's just as hard to be smart about what the Left thinks. It is true, then, that we have changed our position during the committee procedure. We have realized with all the things that came out of the Danish boxes and others that there are problems and that it is just not good enough and that they have not been able to be solved with this proposal. But I would also like to say that the Left also said at the time that they would not be involved in this at all, even if that proposal were put forward. So it is not only the Social Democratic Party that has moved forward. The entire government has moved. And I just have to say that when you say that you do not know where you have the Social Democracy: what about the Left? The Left always says that the Left would like to be financially responsible, but this case is a very good example of the fact that the Left is economically irresponsible. What does the Left do? They're gonna change this. They can't even finance it. They take it from the room, and the rest they send to a future government after a parliamentary election. So, I just have to say that here's Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen therefore has to look inwards and see that the Left and the government have moved wildly. This is clear evidence that the fact that the Left has always said that they and the government are financially responsible is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100024	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100027	All I have to say is that the Social Democratic Party will not help protect the Danish unemployment benefit system. That is what will be the result of today's vote. The party wants to talk about profit principles, but after all, the party does not want to take responsibility for protecting the Danish benefit system. This is very strange, because when we have the discussion that Denmark should be open and that well-qualified foreigners should come here to work, one will not help to secure the jobs of the future, but one does not want to protect the Danish benefit system. It's just a free round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100107	I'm gonna have to ask you to keep this conversation quiet a little bit. We have negotiations in progress. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100113	But that is not true, because I am here with my speech at first reading, I am here with my speech at the question debate, and I have the contribution to make to the report, and in all places you can see if you can read and if you want to read that we want to safeguard the Danish benefit system and that we want to make sure that we do not just give up our welfare. That is why we are in favour of the residence requirement, and that is why we are in favour of the principle of income. So if you really want to know, you can just read these things. It says black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100144	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100147	Thank you. I just need some clarification, because with that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says by documenting that you have been abroad, or that the cashier cannot prove that you have been abroad and are entitled to unemployment benefits, it must be the case that it is the person who traveled abroad who is in control of when you have travelled abroad and has control of your own payrolls, because if you do not have your payrolls, there is no one who can document anything at all. But is it not the case that the person who works in third countries, wherever it is, also has an obligation to be able to explain for himself how long you have been out and what salary you have been paid and that you have the pay slips?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100229	Yes, and that is precisely where it is causing major problems, and that is why it is a very good question, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted is still standing. Because there are more problems in this. Firstly, there is no requirement for other countries to hide their documents, so that means that it may not even be possible to obtain these documents because the countries do not have to hide them. It may also be difficult to obtain documents from employers, because some of the employers keep them for only five years. What about your spouse? You should also be able to prove that you have been away with your spouse. What if you're divorced or your mate is dead? What about the kids? You have to go back 26 years. I think all of you who haven't gotten into the proposal can hear how confusing this is. That's what the A-boxes have to deal with. That is what we are asking these Members to document. I think everyone can hear that being extremely difficult, and that is why we are seriously questioning this proposal, and that is why Mr. Bent Bøgsted hits the head on the nail. That is why we need to make this proposal much better and land a better model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100329	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100331	It's kind of weird, because if mr. Leif Lahn Jensen travels to a third country, I am convinced that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen knows when he left home, and many times you also need a visa to travel to a third country, and then you can see in the passport when you have left. I guess it's also the case that you keep a paycheck. It can't be that when you come home and tell the cashier that you want cash benefits, it's the cashier who has to ask: Have you earned your salary? And I need to find out. You have to explain that yourself. One has to explain oneself where one has been employed and that one has been paid, and one has to explain for oneself how long one has been out. Normally you know how long you have been abroad and can document when you have left home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100413	It may be. I don't think so. Bent Bøgsted or I know enough. I certainly haven't, and that's why I just have to listen in this case to Danish coffers, all the coffers that sit with it every day. When they tell me that there are already some problems and that there will be even more problems when we talk about third countries with which we do not have the agreements that we have with the European Union, I will be worried, and then I am afraid that what the Danish People's Party and the Left are about to do is that they say to ordinary people who go abroad and want to have a job, that when they come home they cannot get a daily allowance, and if they cannot prove it, they cannot get a daily allowance either. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100449	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and move on to the next rapporteur who has asked to speak, and that is Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220100455	Thank you very much. A great many questions have been asked, and there have been many debates, including a debate on questions and consultation. I think we have gone through a lot, and we are in this case the opposition parties. Because the answers have shown that perhaps one could have done one's homework a little more thorough on the part of the government. What have we got out of this long debate? Unfortunately, we are not getting rid of this bill, at least not right now, but we have made some concessions. We have had a slight relaxation of the residence requirement, but we are very pleased that a few thousand fewer people are affected than did with what was originally contained in the government's proposal, including the children of foreign dancers. But then, of course, we have discovered the serious consequences of this bill. The Minister's reply shows that more than 8,000 people are facing the risk of losing their benefit rights per year. January 1, 2019 and there will be many more in the years to come. The Minister himself estimates that more than 20 000 people will withdraw from the coffers, so it is probably at least on the level we shall see people being affected by it, because why else would they resign, as the Minister himself estimates? Then we have found that the cashiers will be charged with a heavy administrative task which, among other things, includes: It is the fact that every year they have to check residence requirements 12 years back, in some cases up to 30 years ago, in relation to more than 100,000 placements and resettlements in the benefit system. For there are so many placements and resettlements, so many actions take place in terms of placement and resettlement in the benefit system every year. Unfortunately, we have also confirmed that the legal certainty of Members comes under severe pressure. They may have great difficulties in documenting their periods of residence so far back, including: because companies in the countries in which they have been staying are not obliged to store the information for so long. Well, then I'll be able to comment on Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question. Well, if all these thousands of people who had traveled out with their daily allowance and had gotten a good job abroad, had in advance known that they should be able to document their stay so many years back, as long as 30 years back, then they would have been very careful to save every little piece of paper that could document it. But people haven't known, so in this area, too, it undermines a state of law that those people have experienced that they had it is completely different now. There is something to rejoice about throughout this whole legal procedure, and it is that the government parties and the arguments of the Danish People's Party have fallen completely apart; or rather, the only argument that they have had in the goose-eyes, namely the claim that the purpose of this proposal is to prevent foreigners from abusing the Danish benefit system, has the Minister himself flattened by demonstrating that the proposal also affects thousands of Danish citizens and that it has not been able to provide any evidence that there is an abuse in this area. This morning Denmark's Radio has mentioned a report that Danske A-kasses have had made, which beats the last nail in the coffin. The report shows that the number of third country nationals in employment in Denmark has increased by almost 50%. in the period from 2010 to 2017. During the same period, the number of third country nationals receiving benefit has fallen by 36%. What is the abuse against which the Danish cash register system is intended to be protected? Should we protect it from these citizens who have contributed to Danish society? No, we must very much invite these citizens into Danish society, also in the Danish benefit system. But that shows how grotesque the situation is. This residence requirement, which is said to protect against the abuse of the Danish benefit system by foreigners, only affects third country nationals and Danish nationals who have been outside the EU/EEA area for too long. However, EU/EEA citizens are not affected, although the same report that Danske A-kasses have been made shows that the number of EU/EEA citizens receiving Danish daily allowances has increased by as much as 130 per cent. during the same period. I do not believe that this is an indication that EU/EEA citizens are abusing the Danish daily allowance system or that companies are speculating about it, but I fear that this can be the result when the Council, Parliament and the Commission have finished negotiating whether EU/EEA citizens should be entitled to daily benefit from one or after one month. Whatever happens, Denmark cannot do anything about it because of the rules on free movement. So all that the governing parties and the Danish People's Party have left to say in defence of this mess is that they think it's fair. They think it is reasonable that more than 8 000 people should be deprived of their right to benefit and many more in the longer term, as the requirement of residence is tightened from 5 years to 7 years, which will also prevent even more people from obtaining the right to benefit in the future. They think it is reasonable that these people, Danes as well as foreigners, are then affected by an even stricter residence requirement for cash benefits, so that they are instead forced to live on a benefit that is below the poverty limit of Denmark's Statistics. They think it is fair to import third-country nationals in large numbers, but at the same time deny them the same rights as their Danish colleagues, even though these foreign citizens contribute to Danish society on an equal footing with Danes, work and pay taxes and pay quotas to the A-box. I guess that says everything about what this proposal is really about. The abuse of daily allowances by foreigners is used as a pretext for another serious attack on the benefit system and on the safety of employees, knowing that if you can weaken the benefit system and get some more people to withdraw from the cashiers, you are weakening employees as such in their fair fight for good pay and working conditions. Well, now you have to look at the bright aspects of life, and there are two things I would like to welcome here in conclusion. One is that the government and the Danish People's Party have been completely isolated in the public debate on this issue. They don't have any friends. Even those who are usually their friends, Danish Industry, Danish Business, disapprove of this proposal. The second thing to be welcomed is that after a period of wavering, social democracy has ended up voting against the bill and promising that the residence requirement will be removed as one of the first after a parliamentary election. I am sure that it would not have been possible without strong pressure from the trade union movement and Danske A-banker, so I can only express a great deal of thanks for their efforts in the fight against this reactionary bill. And thank you to the other parties in the opposition who have helped to uncover what that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101243	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101247	Thank you. In fact, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen to make it clear that Enhedslisten welcomes citizens from third countries: just come to Denmark all together; just get daily allowances, and you are welcome in Denmark. That's kind of it, sir. Finn Sørensen says up there. Just come to Denmark; you just have to make sure that you can get cash benefits. Then we can take all the citizens of third countries, that should be, no problems. I agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it's a joke with the EU and that they can get cash benefits so quickly, but Mr. Finn Sørensen opens up unlimited access from third countries as long as they can receive daily allowances. That's what you can understand. Then I'm just gonna ask sir. Finn Sørensen: When you go to the United States, for example, Mr. Finn Sørensen, you can't prove when you left. In the vast majority of third countries, you must have a visa, that is to say you must show your passport, and it says when you have left or entered the country to which you come. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101346	I don't know which part of the body Mr. Bent Bøgsted uses to listen, but I think he needs to find someone other than the one he's been using. I'm absolutely sure of it. Because I haven't spoken, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted claims, and it is not Enhedslisten's policy either. As far as the documenting of your stay abroad is concerned: Yes, of course it can be documented, but there are some tough requirements to receive unemployment benefits in Denmark, whether you are a foreigner or a Dane. It is the A-box that has to decide whether it considers that these stays abroad are properly documented. And it has come to light during the discussion of this bill that most people have to be able to document it 12 years ago, and for some people, namely children of foreign dancers, it has to be documented as much as 30 years ago. And it is not certain that people can do so in all cases, and then they risk losing unemployment benefit on an entirely unjustified basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101452	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101453	Yeah, now I'm not one of those guys who's trying to belittle a colleague in here the same way as sir. Finn Sørensen does with me. It's got to stand for sir. Finn Sørensen's own bill. We can talk about that later and not here from the platform. I just think that sir... Finn Sørensen had to deal with it a little more, sir. Finn Sørensen says here that you open the door to third-country citizens, and if only they can get a daily allowance, then they can come to Denmark. I also think it seems that Mr. Finn Sørensen has not understood that when you leave, you are responsible for proving whether you have gone to another country or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101527	Now my purpose is not to belittle Mr. Bent Bøgsted in any way. I have no reason to do that. My purpose was to say in a very clear and clear way that I think it is strong tobacco, to stand and put some words in my mouth that I have not used at all, and that one attaches a policy to Enhedslisten, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted knows very well that we haven't got a job, and that you make it as if you can just come to Denmark and then get a daily allowance. It doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101555	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101557	Thank you. All I have to do is follow up on sir. Bent Bøgsted's question. Is it not true that the bill, when we adopt it, helps to protect the Danish benefit system? This helps to ensure that for all of us Danes who contribute over the tax ticket to ensure that you cannot get to Denmark and then, after a very, very short period of time, get a daily allowance that is 50 per cent. funded by taxpayers. So is it not true that this bill helps to protect the Danish benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101638	No, that is not at all correct, and I think that I made a very thorough argument in my rapporteur's speech. This is an attack on the Danish benefit system. One can of course read from the figures we have received from the Minister that people are being deprived of the right to benefits • people who have contributed to Danish society by working, by paying taxes, by paying their contributions. They're taken away from their benefit rights. This is an attack on the Danish benefit system. After all, the minister himself has said that he estimates that more than 20,000 people will resign because of this bill. I'm afraid it'll be many, many more. So it is quite clear that this is an attack on the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101719	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101720	But is it not true that this bill will mean that citizens from third world countries will no longer be able to come here and, over a short period of time, earn the right to daily allowance? Isn't that right? I just have to ask the simple, brief question: is it not true that when this draft law is adopted one can no longer come to Denmark from third world countries and then after 1 year's work earns the right to daily allowances, which is also financed by Danish taxpayers, for example. The 3F who has worked for a long time at the airport?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101758	It is true, plus that several thousand Danish citizens will also find themselves in that situation. And it is an attack on the Danish benefit system, because Danish employees need those who work in this country to have social security, a security, so that they have the courage to oppose employers without being afraid of being fired, that they have the courage to make demands on pay and working conditions that can improve the conditions of employees. The restriction of people's access to the benefit system is an attack on the benefit system and on the safety of workers as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101845	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220101855	In the opinion of the Radical Left, unemployment benefits should be regulated solely by the rules of the labour market, and the introduction of a residence requirement such as that laid down here, on top of the fact that people with legal residence have earned daily allowances, is obviously unreasonable. The arguments put forward by the authors of the motion do not seem to me to be consistent. What goes on in different variations is that you have to contribute before you can get unemployment benefit. But that is what people have made the payment of the allowance conditional upon having been on the labour market during the period of earning for a year, when they have paid their taxes and thus made a contribution to society. The question was then asked several times during the legislative procedure: how much should we contribute? Where's the border? Where's the money in this? When is that fair? At that time it was said that it is 7 out of the last 8 years, and now there is a new proposal, where it has to be 7 out of the last 12 years without explaining it here with the contribution to society, without explaining how the calculation is related; when this reasonable limit has been reached. But I also think it has been set completely arbitrarily. I would very much like us to look after our labour market. There are good reasons to look after the Danish model. Right now, we are also in a situation where we have to recruit labour from outside the world. The government itself has set itself the lead for a package which they will present in this Chamber in the next session to make it easier for companies to recruit international labour. But we must at the same time tell well-educated people in the world that when they come here, they have to work on less favourable terms than Danes, if they come here because they will not be able to obtain unemployment insurance through the unemployment insurance fund. We want to take care of the Danish model. It fits well with a modern international labour market, and what we see in a modern international labour market are, of course, people who travel in and out of Denmark, and now we both prevent people from going out to train themselves, and certainly also that those who have gone out to work and upgrade themselves are coming home. This in itself is unreasonable and it is something that is working vertically against our goal of the future labour market. So I will be very pleased to vote red when we vote on this bill later. In fact, I think that the proposers should re-evaluate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102113	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102122	It is a somewhat withered Christmas present that awaits the 8,300 people who are now losing entitlement to the allowance in 2 weeks' time later, according to Danske A-boxes, who usually prove to be right in such cases. People who have paid for unemployment insurance over the years are now suddenly discovering that there is no cover on the policy anyway. With retroactive effect, thousands of people are affected by the economic priorities of the right, because the tax agreement of earlier this year with tax cuts has to be financed by the unemployed. The proposal today is a little better than the original proposal. A few teeth have been pulled out, but most poison teeth are left. But it is really nice, I think, from the government that they have so skilfully conned the Danish People's Party, so they are now part of an agreement that transfers money directly from the unemployment benefit system, from the unemployed, to tax cuts. This bill envisages Sisypho work for the cashiers, for how could they and their members document where and how long abroad the members have been staying, even retroactively? The proposal will mean fewer members of the cashiers. The Ministry has calculated approx. 20,000. Danish A-boxes, which are usually right in cases like this again, expect considerably more. And is that really what we want? This will weaken one of the main pillars of our dynamic and efficient labour market: the cashiers and a secure benefit system. As I have called it on several occasions, we have now again experienced the Ministry of Finance and Employment as the united sausage cutting factories. With a knife, they cut the slice of the safe daily allowance system, and finally a small dried sausage is on the cutting board. With a knife they cut slices of the sausage, and with a saw they saw off the branch on which the cashier's system and the safe allowance system rests.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102352	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102400	Thank you. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity here at the third reading to thank you for many good questions and many good debates in connection with Bill No. L 13. It has to be said that, in this way, it can be boiled down to relatively simple political discussions, namely whether, as has also been pointed out in the questions from both the Left and the Danish People's Party, one has to do something extra to ensure the Danish benefit system, whether one should allow for profit principles that better protect the Danish benefit system, or whether one should not do so. And there we can see that, at first reading, there was broad support for the principle of profit. It is quite true, as Finn Sørensen has said, that there was support from the Social Democratic Party. It is such support that here along the way seems to be a little different. I do not think it is necessary to say that the social democracy will not continue to have an income principle, which is what might be adopted in a short time, because it has been seen before that something has been said before an election and something else has been said when you have to sit with the government if that happens. However, it is too early to anticipate the course of events at this stage. However, I would like to say that I do not in any way share the criticism that Finn Sørensen has made, especially for that matter also Karsten Hønge. It was mentioned that there are 20 000 people who will no longer be members of the cashiers, but it is worth saying to those who may be in doubt that there are about 2 million members in the cashier's system. It is also important to note here whether it is a blow to the cashiers in Denmark that this government has made a broad political agreement with many parties, but not with the Enhedslisten, where we give the cashiers much greater political room for manoeuvre, understood in the sense that they now have the opportunity to make an effort during the first 3 months of the daily allowance period for up to 25 per cent. by the beneficiaries of the benefit. It is certainly not something that is in any way a blow to the a-boxes, rather on the contrary. So all that stuff about us not wanting to do anything for the A-boxes is simply professionally wrong. Then we have also chosen, on the part of the government and in cooperation with the various parties, to listen to some of the criticisms that have been made, and that is why an amendment has been tabled. Finn Sørensen once again says that it is not an amendment that makes a difference at all. I think that's to tighten it a little. If you now look at what that amendment will mean in full phase, you will see that it will mean that about 80%. of those who may be affected by this principle of income are nationals of third countries and less than 20%. are Danish nationals. But it is an honest matter, one can say to Enhedslisten and Finn Sørensen, and as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has mentioned that it is desirable to ensure that as many people as possible, i.e. nationals of third countries, are given the opportunity to receive a daily allowance. It is fair enough that you think it should be as easy as possible to access it. In this context, it should be said that it is not the case that the benefit system is financed by the members of the cashiers. We have also discovered this in the course of the debate: the Community pays about half to the benefit system. So it's a good political disagreement to have. I think it is a good idea to make it more attractive to come to Denmark and work while Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks it is better to ensure that you can get as much as possible to Denmark as possible, which will have the easier access to our benefit system. We do not agree on that. Then a large number of questions have also been asked, not least by Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, asking about the administration. On the way I had two meetings with Danske A-banker in this connection, the last was as late as yesterday, plus that many views have also been exchanged in writing. I have also made the clear commitment that we must, of course, ensure that it is easier to administer the rules that we adopt here, but now it is also important to say that it is after all the Folketing that passes the laws and that it is I, as Minister, who is responsible for making the announcement and the instructions, and that is what is the guide to how and how to work as a cashier. I am not saying that there can be no difficulty with this proposal, but I have no doubt that we will ensure that they are resolved satisfactorily enough to enable the cashiers to work under the legislation that will apply. However, thank you once again for a good, thorough political treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102900	I should like to thank the Minister for Employment. We have a few brief comments to make, and first it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220102906	Thank you very much. The minister must have a very short memory. It is not so long ago that we were discussing imports of labour from third countries, where it was the Minister who was very keen that they could enter Denmark, even if we did not need their labour, but where Enhedslisten was among the parties that helped to reject that proposal, precisely on the basis that there was no need for labour. The difference is that the Minister would like to import a whole lot of labour from third countries and all sorts of other countries in the world if that were possible, but he will not ensure that they have the same opportunities for social security as their Danish colleagues. That's where the fight goes, sir. Minister, and why, I wonder? It is because you can probably see that it could be beneficial for employers if there was a growing group of people in this country who had no social security in the event of unemployment. So I would just like to ask the Minister: what is the abuse by third-country nationals to protect the Danish benefit system from? Can't we just get somebody just hint of what kind of abuse you're using as the main reason for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103017	I am pleased to hear that Finn Sørensen is now very concerned about discussing foreign labour. I would just like to say that Finn Sørensen certainly did not want to protect the Danish benefit system, which is something Finn Sørensen has been very concerned about throughout the committee's proceedings. Basically, I think that is a shame. What I am talking about, and what I have spoken for both during the debate on questions and on several questions, is what is right and proper. And I think it is right and proper to contribute to Danish society through an income principle before you have the right to become part of the Danish unemployment benefit system, and to that I have to say that this is something that Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten want to be different. This is a political disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103101	Don't forget to say Mr... The Minister for Employment, Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103102	Yeah, I don't care about the title thing. What is it that the Danish benefit system should be protected against? Would the Minister like to comment on the study published this morning, which I know the Minister is aware of, because he has commented on it to the Danish Radio, which says that the number of third-country nationals in employment in Denmark has increased by almost 50%. in the period from 2010 to 2017? During the same period, the number of third country nationals receiving benefit has fallen by 36%. What kind of abuse is the Minister talking about? And would the Minister say that these people have not contributed to Danish society and to the Danish benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103150	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103151	I'm sorry. It's, of course, sir. Finn Sørensen, whether Mr. Finn Sørensen means one thing or the other in the indictment form. I have spoken against the backdrop of false news, sir. Finn Sørensen spread in Denmark's Radio.This is the interview I have given this morning, not on the basis of one of the infinitely many surveys that come all the time, which I did not have the opportunity to dive into. But that doesn't change anything. Sir. Finn Sørensen gave the impression that there were 8,000 people who would lose the right to daily allowance in 2019. But that is not the case. It will be approx. 100 people who can be affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103228	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103230	Thank you. We have had several debates on this and at first reading the Minister said that he could not support that proposal or that it certainly did not have much time on earth to support this proposal in at least seven years' time in the last 12 years. For that would, of course, result in a lower revenue compared to the agreement concluded with the Danish People's Party, and the money was spent, so it still had to be financed away. The Minister thought so at the time. Does the Minister think that it is now funded when the majority of the bill is passed on to a possible new government after a parliamentary election? So is it funded?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103308	Yes, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, that this proposal is fully funded. And perhaps it is also to speak too loudly to say that 50 million. kr. out of 200 million kr. is the majority of the amount. I know sir. Leif Lahn Jensen well enough to know that he has a black belt in the main bill, so it is not the majority of the amount that has disappeared. But it is true that we have chosen to listen to some of the criticisms that have been made, and we have actually also taken up the view that Mr. Mr Lahn Jensen expressed his views at first reading. And it is rare to receive criticism of the Social Democratic Party for listening to their proposals, but I note that I am doing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103342	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103344	I'm just saying that this government is pretty financially irresponsible. For what is actually being done is to shift the largest funding to a possible new government. After all, the largest funding is in relation to the revenue we are talking about, which is a total of 57.5 million. kr. that will be missing. That's where you take 15 million. kr. in this room for manoeuvre here, and then you say to a future government whoever it is, whoever gets the power: then you have to take care of the bill, because we cannot finance it. That's kind of what you do. Is that financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103415	Yes, it is fully and completely financially responsible, and it is because of two things. After all, this government is doing what we can to regain government power, and then Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has to take things very calmly, because then Mr Leif has to take it easy. Leif Lahn Jensen didn't make a bill. And if the tragic thing is that this government does not exist after an election, then we are faced with far greater problems with the things Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has expressed himself today. We have not even begun to talk about the many promises made by the Social Democratic Party which cannot be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103441	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103443	Thank you. This bill is marked by the fact that it is not made by the social partners. The actors I know very well would never have thought of doing anything as foolish as this. It's been happening in the dark and gloom of the night over in the Ministry of Finance. But now it is the Minister who is responsible for putting it into practice, and that is why I would like to ask a question. We have been required to find some money for tax relief, and this is with retroactive effect. This reduces the flexibility that Danish companies would like to have, that is, that people can also travel and earn money for a period of time for various reasons. It may also be foreign citizens who go out and come back again. So it hits a large number of people quite unintentionally. Could the Minister not also confirm the discussion with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not enough just to be able to document a visa and payroll, but that it is also necessary to be able to test with foreign employers who do not have the obligation to activate for as many years as is required here? So the arguments around it are that this leads to fewer people paying for the system in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103555	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103559	It was a very long question, I think, with many sub-questions along the way. I understood in this way whether I could confirm that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, has understood the government's bill, and about that, sir. Bent Bøgsted said he was smart, and I can confirm that completely. That's what Mr. Bent Bøgsted was very wise to say that it was not even as an employee that you have a responsibility to save your payrolls. It's basically a good Jysk sense or almost common sense, no matter what. Then I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen many other questions. There is just a political disagreement, and one should be glad that there is sometimes in here. That is why there is parliamentarianism, because it is for one to disagree. Sir. After all, Bjarne Laustsen wants the benefit system to be wide open to third country citizens. That is a hundred percent fair, and you can just say to the wondering Danish people that you want to fight for it. I think that's an exciting case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103653	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103655	It is not at all foreign nationals and Danes who have traveled and worked for a period that is a threat to the benefit system. Rather, it is the foolish rules that the European Parliament and the Commission want to make for Eastern Europeans who get much less into work than the people we are talking about. After all, we have been sitting together for a whole year and making simplifications in the benefit system, and this is a matter of concern to the government and to all of us. How many pages do these stupid rules add to the law on cash? This is something that is very, very difficult to document, while at the same time there is a long list of exceptions if you are sent into military operations, etc. Does this also apply to voluntary tools, homeguards, etc. that go out and help and make use of themselves to restore a country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103735	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103738	I can confirm that I do indeed share the view expressed by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen expresses his views on the good cooperation we have had in order to create a new employment policy. I have also signed for this on many occasions and thanked the Social Democratic Party for the responsibility it has shown. But we just got to a time when the roads are separating from this proposal. It is also natural that I sometimes have to have some legislative proposals where I disagree with the Social Democrats. It's rare I am, but it's nice to have a political discussion here, where I'm one hundred percent disagree, otherwise I'm almost a candidate to move across the middle. So I am actually happy to have an ideological, clear conflict for once.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103822	That question was then settled in good faith, but we have just a few brief comments to make. It's first, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103827	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we have the very simple view that people who go to work in Denmark should be able to earn daily allowances on equal terms. It's funny talking about profit principles. The benefit is a principle of earning, because you have to work for one year and be a member of an unemployment insurance fund in order to be able to have access to the daily allowance. By putting people working in Denmark differently, you give employers some very good cards, because then we have people in our jobs who are so uncertain about what happens if they are fired that they are ready for anything. It's not good for anyone. The position of the government, on the other hand, is pure hypocrisy, because, on the one hand, people who come from, for example, people who come from third countries are being restricted. Canada or Argentina will be able to earn a daily allowance on equal terms with their colleagues at work and, on the other hand, EU directives will be accepted, which means that people can come here and not have to earn a daily allowance, but gradually with the new rules on the way in, step straight in and receive a daily allowance after one day's work. It's pure hypocrisy, isn't it? Who is it that doesn't defend the benefit system, sir? Minister of Employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103940	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220103941	For a moment, I got associations with Donald Trump in Mr. Pelle Dragsted's very, very fake news spread. This is a serious matter. Now Mr. Pelle Dragsted isn't under duty of truth, and that's good. The fact that the government is working to undermine our unemployment benefit system in the EU negotiations that are taking place is a hundred percent lie. And then Mr. Pelle Dragsted, he didn't say that. I think we should try to recall what was asked. After all, the government is fighting precisely to prevent what is on the table from being implemented. It simply requires that we follow the European political debate or the mandate given to the government in the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104021	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104023	It may be that the Minister can then tell the Danish people what the rules are today for EU citizens who come here. Should they earn a daily allowance one year, like their Danish colleagues, or has the government accepted a much shorter income requirement? I just want a yes or no. And then perhaps we can also get an answer as to whether the government, if the EU insists on one day's work, will use all the means at all, including for example. to refuse to vote in favour of the EU budget or anything like that, to ensure that it does not apply? And don't accuse your colleagues of spreading fake news like they didn't. That is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104100	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104102	I hope that is not unacceptable. I do not think it is acceptable to accuse me, as a minister at EU level, of fighting to degrade the benefit system. That's exactly what the government doesn't do. But I do agree one hundred percent that what is on the table now is deeply serious. I said then six months ago that we have been defeated by what was agreed in the Council. I am deeply concerned about the trialogue that must be held between the Commission, Parliament and the Council. I also deeply regret the fact that one week ago we did not succeed in putting a stop to this when there was a vote in plenary. So on this point, we agree that what is on the table now is helping to weaken what is otherwise applicable. We are working strongly against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104151	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104153	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that foreigners who have come to Denmark and have worked and thus earned the right to benefit as a group, including those who then receive daily allowances, are a large surplus business for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104209	I cannot confirm all the arrangements that are in relation to coming here. It is clear that if you look at the system of amounts, it is a good idea that the system of amounts helps to contribute to society. But having said that, I still think that this is also a question of fairness and fairness. That is also what we discussed at first reading and at second reading. I have to say that I do not understand why the Danish benefit system should be opened wide without being willing to take the consequences. That is the difference between the government and the opposition. It's just so sad, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104252	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104253	I don't think I got an answer to my question. Can the Minister confirm that these foreigners are, overall, a large surplus business when they participate in the Danish labour market? And it is derived from this: how can the Minister think that the benefit system is wide open when these people, who are then members of the benefit system, are overall a large surplus business for the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104313	Well, for me, this is about what's right and what's right. I think it is right and proper not only to be able to enter the Danish labour market under quite relaxed conditions, as it is today, and thus also to earn the right to benefit. I think there should be a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104328	We thank the Minister. Now it is the case that the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing also provide for the possibility of a second round for the third reading. The speaking time is then limited to 5 minutes per day. rapporteur. The first person who has asked for a second-round speech is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104344	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the political debate. I don't think we can add that much new. I think that the differences have been very clear: the Minister would very much like to import labour from third countries; they should just not be allowed to have the same social security as their Danish colleagues. It's as simple as that. But I will not tolerate the Minister standing here saying that I have spread false news in the media. I've built a hundred percent on the minister's own answer about how many people were hit by this bill. I have to read out a little from the Minister's answer to my question, which has No. 81. The minister writes: If it is based on an inventory of persons per year. 1 October 2018 is a member of an unemployment insurance fund but does not meet the requirements for stay in the country for 5 out of the last 12 years, it is estimated that 8,300 persons per year. 1 December 2018 will not meet the residence requirement. Of this, 27 per cent is estimated. to be Danish citizens, and 73 per cent. to be citizens of third countries. That is what I have told the media, and it is the closest one comes to a fairly precise picture of how many people are affected by this, because unless miracles happen for those people from 1 December to 1 January with regard to their residence requirements, they wake up with a hangover after a hopefully really happy New Year's Eve, and then the hangover gets really big, because then they have to learn that they no longer have the right to cash benefits. Most of these people are in employment. I wish for them to remain in employment, but if they do not do so, if they become unemployed, then they will have to note that they cannot receive unemployment benefits. Then they are referred to the poverty benefit which the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed to apply from 1 January, which is lower than the poverty limit of Denmark's Statistics. And they are hit even harder because the residence requirement for cash benefits in Denmark per year. January 1, 2019 will be sharpened to 9 years out of the last 10 years. So it is then to be affected and affected, and I think it is a very arrogant thing when, in some of the answers he has given me, the Minister has said that they are not affected, because they are not unemployed. If you suddenly experience that you have lost your benefit rights, aren't you affected? I think that we have a good tone and that the Minister is also an honourable and worthy opponent. However, I would like the Minister to come up here and apologise for accusing me of spreading false news and to confirm that the figures I have used in the media and in this discussion come from an answer he has given me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104656	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104659	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten, when the Danish People's Party's rapporteur did not go up and took the floor, whether he has heard the debate that has taken place in this Chamber and in consultation etc. Finn Sørensen talks about, which is therefore about ordinary Danish citizens who have left the country and who, after New Year, are in danger of losing their daily allowances. Why has the Danish People's Party agreed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104739	I have some doubts as to whether it was a question for Mr. Finn Sørensen or to Mr. Sørensen. Bent Bøgsted, but now we're giving Mr. Bøgsted the opportunity. Finn Sørensen to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104747	I'm not gonna be the mouthpiece for Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. He must come up here on the platform and explain why he has done what he has done. I just want to say that this process and this bill confirm a picture that we have seen for so many, many years, namely the picture that is about if the Danish People's Party can get some foreigners' heads on a platter to put a picture on the board, then the Danish People's Party is helping to reduce the conditions for Danish employees, and they are also happy to contribute to tax cuts that the richest people in this society will enjoy. So it's kind of just been confirmed through this whole legal procedure, unfortunately in a very grotesque way, because it's a grotesque bill. But that really brings things up in the very sharp perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104842	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? The Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104851	A reaction was demanded from me as a minister from the always industrious member of parliament, Mr. Finn Sørensen, and that is why I would like to read out what is the answer and what is the background to the whole discussion about the false news, because there I have answered Mr. Finn Sørensen: There will be approx. 8,200 workers who do not meet the residence requirement but who are not affected as they remain in employment and less than 100 unemployed persons who lose their entitlement to unemployment benefit because of the residence requirement. That is why I would just like to say that it can be interpreted as if there are 8 000 people in the situation that they would then lose the opportunity, if you may say so, to have a job, and that is not what it says in that answer. Those people are at work, and there are 100 who are being affected. That is the conclusion of what I am answering, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, and it is fully informed during this committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104954	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220104957	I have to say that I am disappointed with the Minister here, because I have not said that, and the Minister knows that I have not, and we have discussed it many times, and I have used the same wording every time, when I have just referred to the Minister's reply that there were 8,300 who lost the opportunity to get a job. What I have said, and what is the fact, and what you can read from the Minister's reply, is that unless the situation changes for these people, they will lose their right to benefit on 1 January 2019. That is what I have said, and it is a fact that the Minister's reply shows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105036	That's where I'm gonna get answers. I'm not in a position to know what, sir. Finn Sørensen has told Danmarks Radio, since I still don't edit the Radio newspaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105047	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105056	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105123	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105141	Thank you. After all, there was some discussion at second reading, which is why I would just like to state what the Social Democrats and, incidentally, a number of parties with us think about this. For social democracy and a number of other parties, it is absolutely essential that we have a strong collective supply sector if we are to have both low consumer prices and we are to ensure the next ambitious steps in the green transition. It's not every place that's supposed to be district heating. With the energy conciliation, we propose that where prices are too high and where they cannot be brought down, consumers should be able to move to other sources of heat, if I may say so. In fact, none of the parties are opposed to this, and that is not what we are discussing today. In other places, the district heating network needs to be expanded, and there we have agreed that this can only happen if it is the best and cheapest solution and the consumers therefore say yes and want to join in. Then there is the controversial point today, namely that for a great many district heating areas where it is working perfectly well today, the government will, in our view, change the conditions that apply. The discussion in June, when we made the energy settlement, was very much about securing the investments that had been made, the ones you needed to be calm about and then you had to discuss that if you wanted to make new investments, it was important to have support for it. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is a good custom not to change the conditions for investment already made. The Community has invested millions of kroner, and it is usually the municipalities that have the debt if it goes wrong. I have asked the Minister how many millions or billions are involved in the companies where things are changing now. The Minister says that, unfortunately, he cannot answer, and in this situation it is a little difficult to vote in favour of a proposal which we believe creates uncertainty about investments already made for a million dollars which the Minister does not even know. Then the government parties say this is a breach of the energy settlement. I would like to make it clear that it is not, of course. Social democracy does not leave the energy settlement, but it is clear that we have an expectation of listening when we have raised some concerns at a number of conciliation meetings. These are, moreover, concerns which are also shared by many who have submitted extremely critical consultation responses. The National Association of Municipalities has criticised the proposal across party lines for endangering municipal investment and damaging the green conversion. The Finance Minister's party colleague and mayor in Herning, Lars Krarup, has sent a highly critical hearing response on behalf of KommuneKredit, where he is chairman. He and others have been in front of the committee and tried to call out the legislators, but the government holds on to its. The rest of the world is wrong, you have to understand, and then we're back to talking about conciliation and conciliation. That is clear, because what do you actually do when there is disagreement? In the view of the Social Democrats, it is quite simple: a common solution is found and it can be difficult. It also says in the conciliation that we need to make new rules so that we can make better use of surplus heat. It says it's going to happen in the autumn of 2018. In fact, this is not to be misunderstood, and it is a fairly important matter for the social democracy and for the district heating that we are also discussing. However, these negotiations are stranded because we cannot agree, and that is what can happen in conciliation circles, i.e. that we do not agree on exactly how things should be implemented. There is our appeal to talk until a solution is found, rather than to roll over that part of the conciliation parties which does not have a majority. In fact, when there is disagreement both about the heat of profits and in this area, the only difference between the two cases is that in the case of surplus heat, the government is in the minority; therefore, there is nothing in the Chamber and here the government has chosen to use its majority to force it through, and that is why the Social Democratic Party and, incidentally, a number of other parties are voting yellow to this proposal. Of course, we are not abandoning the energy conciliation, but we are calling for solutions to be found in a memorable way to deal with the entirely justified and real issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105549	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105553	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Social Democrats' rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there is a line and a half in the energy conciliation that reads as follows: 'The parties also agree to put a stop to new consumer bonds in the form of a commitment to connection and stay from 1 January 2019.'? That is the sentence that the bill here implements, and it is very brief and clear. Why is it that the Social Democrats are tabling amendments which would mean that this sentence would not be adopted if those amendments were adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105630	It is true that it is relatively short in the energy conciliation. In fact, we also had six weeks when it stood completely still in the negotiations on heat. We had raised these issues, but we did not want to talk about the content until agreement was reached on the framework in the Ministry of Finance. It's the government's right, and it's perfectly fair. But when we had to make the energy settlement, there were details that we didn't have enough time to get all around. Now one-and-a-half lines have been written in a conciliation, and then a legislative proposal has been tabled, with the same in the title, and then it is said that it is expected to be voted in favour, without questioning it, and without listening to the critical consultation responses. That is not the case, and that is where I think the content is because we disagree with DF or with the other parties that we have agreed that when you need to spend money and expand district heating in the future, you have to make sure that there is support for it. We all agree on that. This is all about whether or not we change the conditions for investments already made and thus create uncertainty about the millions of loans that the municipalities actually hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105733	Now it is the case that when you conclude an agreement such as the Energy Agreement from this summer, it is a very broad agreement and it is an agreement that covers a great many different issues. When you negotiate something like that, you give and you take it we agree that that is the way it is and therefore there are some things in the text of the agreement that you are more fond of than other things. However, if we are to bring this idea to an end, it may also be the case that in future there are other parties in the energy conciliation who think that there is just one element in the agreement that they are not so happy about, so they are making some amendments or will not vote in favour. Is that what we're gonna do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105809	I hope not. However, when we express our concerns at several conciliation meetings and then learn that this is not going to be discussed with us, we will have to make an amendment. Now I'm reading a sentence from the energy settlement. At the bottom of page 8 it says about surplus heat: • The concrete change will have to be agreed in autumn 2018... It has not been agreed, autumn 2018 is over. Then should we go to the Assembly Hall and accuse the government of breaking a settlement? The truth is that we have not agreed here, and we could only have used the two conciliation meetings to actually find a solution that would make people out there safe at what was going on and that we should not receive so many critical consultations from the outside world and have so much uncertainty about what was agreed this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105858	The next question is Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220105902	Thank you for that, President. I understand that the rapporteur needs to use so many words in explaining that the very simple text contained in the Energy Agreement will not be respected, the simple text agreed by all parties, precisely: Stop new consumer bonds from 2019. What does the Social Democratic Party want? They will not stop for new consumer bonds from 2019. That is what your amendments are all about. And it is strongly, highly questionable, in relation to the fact that we have reached an energy agreement. And yes, some camels had to be swallowed by the various parties in order for us to agree on it, but it is absolutely crazy that the rapporteur is now saying: No, but we are not going to withdraw from the energy agreement. No, but there we have to see what the consequences of that act will be if the Social Democrats do not vote for what the Energy Agreement says to be done and to which they commit themselves. It is clear, it is a very, very simple text: we will make a stop to new consumer bonds from 2019. Social democracy is not voting for now because you do not want to make a stop to new consumer bonds from 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110004	The Social Democratic Party has always said that we did so in the negotiations too, that we made the compromise, that if you create new district heating areas, you cannot use consumer bonds. And the crucial difference is whether you have spent the money or whether you have not spent the money. This is, of course, the concern in the municipalities that they are hanging on a debt that they are no longer sure they can pay. That is the central dividing line. Now, Mr. Knox... Thomas Danielsen would like to be close to text, I would like to ask, if that is after Mr Danielsen. Thomas Danielsen's view is a settlement breach when no change of surplus heat has been agreed here in the autumn of 2018. After all, it is in the bottom line on page 8 of the energy settlement: the concrete change must be agreed in autumn 2018. There's no misunderstanding that either. So, the truth is that in conciliation circles where you do not reach all the details, you obviously have to sit down and talk about it, and then there are some areas where the government has been in the minority, and there you have thought: well, we are not talking about that, we are simply postponing that, and then we are not calling for negotiations. And in those areas where we have actually had a majority to force the other conciliation parties, it has been said that we do not want to talk about it, because we can just go to the Chamber and vote it through. And I think that may be a bad way of implementing conciliation, and that is where I think I can sign on behalf of my entire party when I say that we hope that we do not become the standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110132	If we just start by addressing the legislative proposal we are discussing today, I would say that the rapporteur is beginning to mix new areas, existing areas and everything possible into the text. It's not that complicated. The text of the agreement is very, very simple: Stop new consumer bonds from 2019. And that is what the Social Democrats will not vote for now. Apparently, they do not want to vote against either. But that is equivalent to making an equally large breach of the energy agreement, because in the energy agreement we commit ourselves to voting in favour of the legislation that we now agree on. And here we are talking about radicals and other parties being able to read the text, but the Social Democrats are not able to read the text on which we have reached an agreement. It's very simple. It's not complicated with new areas, existing areas, etc., it's very simple: Stop for new consumer bonds from 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110216	I think sir... Thomas Danielsen is not doing himself a favour if he claims that this bill is not also about new areas, because it does. What is the matter is that it is a relatively short text in the agreement, and then we have a bill, and then the announcement from the government is that if you do not agree with every line that is here, and if you do not use it as an argument to Lars Krarup when he calls on behalf of the municipalityKredit from Herning, or to the mayor of Horsens when he calls and is worried, or to the mayor of Fredericia, the chairman of the KL's environmental committee, who is concerned about this, then we have to say: we really do not even have to discuss those concerns, because Thomas Danielsen and the Left believe that there is something clear in the energy settlement. We've been trying to raise these things, and sir. Thomas Danielsen also attended those meetings. And I have done everything I could to explain exactly what our concerns were, by the way, some concerns that I also raised at the meetings in May, that is, before we entered into the energy agreement. And that is why it is central to us that we do not, of course, want to blow up the energy conciliation, but that we hope that agreement can be reached on how to implement things that are more complicated than Mr. Thomas Danielsen wants to make them into this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110331	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110340	Thank you for the rapporteur's presentation of the matter and also for bringing the perspective into it that we have a small outstanding surplus heat, where we have a text in the energy agreement which is very precise. And that is a task that has not been solved. I think it is very serious if it is the case that energy agreements crumble, especially with the climate agenda we are in the middle of. We have then received a letter from the Minister for Climate Affairs and from the Minister for Finance last night calling for us to reconsider whether we really want to vote yellow in a moment. And I can also say that the Enhedslisten will be voting yellow in a moment despite the threat letter we got there last night. And it then says that we will be called for negotiations sometime in the new year. I just think we should keep in mind who it was that raised doubts about the coastal mills, in the middle of a tender. It was the Minister for Climate and Energy who at that time was out airing something that was a complete break with the energy reconciliation that existed at that time. So to turn it up to the level you have here, I don't think it's fair at all. I think it is quite fair to vote yellow when some debates have not led to what one might expect. Is Mr. Jens Joel doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110454	Well, I would say that I am certainly very pleased that the Conservatives in the case of the coastal mills helped to stand firm, so that there was no majority, so that the government could not overturn and change what was otherwise agreed in the conciliation circle. But I am basically in agreement with Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen says there's no reason to run this up anymore. I was also a little puzzled by that letter. And that is why I thought it was necessary to go to the platform today and tell you that the Social Democrats have some quite specific concerns about this proposal. And if the government wants to discuss them in a closed forum, I think it is in fact a more suitable place than if we stand here in the Chamber and do so. But if we do not want to discuss it in the conciliation circle, as would normally be the case, then we have to discuss it here in Parliament. That's what we're doing, and we're voting yellow if the government doesn't want to discuss these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110544	The next question is Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110555	After all, I find it thought-provoking that the Social Democracy and the Enhedslist can agree that they will break a conciliation agreement. We heard right here that's what they've come up with. We have sat in several meetings and made energy reconciliation before the summer holidays, and now it needs to be fleshed out in L 97. What L 97 says is that there are stops for bindings in 2019. It is quite clear that it cannot even be misunderstood, but the Enhedslisten and the Royal Social Democratic Party can find a way to agree that they are now running out of place and cannot vote in favour of the proposal. May I ask the rapporteur: are there any other areas in which the Social Democratic Party will jump from the energy agreement, because then we might as well get it out now before Christmas Eve? There must be other places where we can be afraid that something is happening here and now, because this, L 97, is so clear that it simply cannot be misunderstood. There is no one other than the Royal Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten who can agree that it is not a clear text that says in L 97 and on which we agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110710	I think sir... Orla Østerby had to read the report because there are, in fact, four parties and not just the two, as Mr Østerby said. Orla Østerby is accusing me of this, but it's now beside the point. For what this is all about is the sentence which is in the energy conciliation and which is also written in the title of the bill. If you write the same sentence in the title of the bill as it says in an energy conciliation, then all those involved in the energy conciliation must accept everything that is contained in the bill. And there we just say: No, you have to discuss it. So I'd like to ask Mr. Orla Østerby, for we do not intend to run away from the energy settlement, either in this area or in any other area: Is the government running from the energy settlement when you do not live up to the concrete sentence that stands at the bottom of page 8 that a solution to the surplus heat should have been found in autumn 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110756	The questioner, who has now been asked a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110800	Now it is L 97 and not excess heat that we are discussing and voting on right here in a moment. I just have to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur once again: is this the way in which the Social Democratic Party will act in the forthcoming negotiations on energy conciliation? Because then I'm really gonna be afraid of what this is gonna end with. The text we have in L 97 has been completely agreed on. What has happened is that the Social Democrats have become afraid of their own shadow and then abstain. The fact is that abstaining is actually the same as voting in favour. I think that the Social Democrats should press the green button and then show that they stand at the energy conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110850	In other words, I am pleased that the rapporteur, unlike some others, regards yellow voting as a non-escalation of the conflict. We do not intend to run away from the energy conciliation either in this area or in any other area, but it is also clear that we expect the conciliation group we have to discuss how to implement the energy conciliation. We had a case a few weeks ago where we also had some discussions and where we ended up with the government making some concessions on how to implement it. We said: that's fine; that's how you deal with things in a conciliation circle. I hope we can do that in the future, because we do not want to run away from anything. But the Social Democrats have not been the ones who have been running around accusing the government of breaking a settlement, even though the government has not yet succeeded in reaching an agreement on how to use excess heat. That is a great wish out there, and it is in fact also more in demand on the street than a solution to the question that Mr. Orla Østerby is leaving now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110948	The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220110954	Thank you. It is, of course, good to hear that the Social Democrats will not break the energy agreement, and we will then perhaps have some discussions on what the understanding of is. However, the rapporteur for the Socialist Group would like to read the text closely and has sometimes done so from the platform, but in addition Mr. Jens Joel also has new and old areas, i.e. the difference between new and old district heating areas. In any case, I find that difficult to find described in exactly the passage ■ that is the difference between new and old areas. Can the rapporteur confirm that there are new commitments and nothing about new and old areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111036	This is, of course, a rather central discussion, because that is exactly what was the discussion. I also believe that Mr. Carsten Bach was present at many of the meetings before the summer, where we discussed this and where we said that what is important for the Social Democratic Party is to know whether the money that has been spent can be recovered, i.e. whether there is any guarantee of the investment. You have to not come, here 4, 5, 8 or 10 years after you have spent the money, and say: Now we are changing the conditions under which you invested. That would mean that the municipal council, which said yes five years ago, suddenly has a debt that is no longer on the same terms. This has always been central to the social democracy. That is why we have argued in the energy conciliation circle during the energy negotiations that we could actually see that when we were going to spend money in the future, we could only do so if it was the best alternative and if there was support from consumers. That is the compromise we have reached, seen with social democratic spectacles, and that is the compromise that we do not think the government is implementing here because it is beginning to change existing areas where money has been spent and where investments have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111145	Thank you. I understand what is important to the social democracy in this context, but when you read the text of the agreement, you must also understand that what is so important to the social democracy is something that has not been included in the text of the agreement if it is important to the social democracy in new and old areas and the difference between them. That must then be what the rapporteur has not been included in the negotiations on the energy agreement. Then it is planned that we will continue to negotiate here until 1 January 2019. As described in the agreement, there must be an end to new constraints. How long is it that sir? Jens Joel actually imagines having to negotiate now when implementing new legislation, so that we can stop for new constraints in 2019, which is what the text of the agreement says?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111235	Well, of course I understand that the government in this context is trying to say: There is not much time for 2019; therefore, you have to accept what we have put forward, period. However, there is not much left of autumn 2018 and the energy agreement says that in autumn 2018 we will have an agreement on surplus heat. Should I say, then, that the government is dropping out of the energy settlement unless it calls us between Christmas and New Year and finds a solution to it? Well, it is totally crazy if we are to threaten each other with the deadline that we set up in the conciliation circle and say that then we can no longer negotiate it, then we cannot agree because we are too busy. It is not, of course, us who have been masters of either when the energy agreement was made or when the legislation to implement the energy agreement has been sent to a hearing or has been completed or has been commented on and put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111321	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? The Minister for Finance, who is also acting minister in this area, does so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220111335	I have been looking forward at some point to being allowed to interfere in energy policy from the parliamentary platform. Hey. The working Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate is losing some papers, which gives rise to cheerfulness It takes a lot of energy to manage all the papers I have to bring up here. I really hope that we can take this on a rather open note and then I hope to be forgiven if I cannot quite as many energy policy details as the rapporteurs can. We have sent a letter to the Conciliation Committee to discuss the situation we are in here. I do not think that it is in line with normal conciliation practice, as we usually do at Christiansborg, that a conciliation group that has an agreement will now end up voting differently on a legislative proposal. I just think we should have a talk about that. For what is the conciliation practice at Christiansborg? It is, in fact, one of the foundations of a good and vibrant people's rule over many years that we have accepted that in negotiations we should bow to each other, give and take a little, find a compromise that everyone can live with, and then support it. That's what we're seeing you don't do in this case. When various points are referred to in the text of the agreement, it is true that there are several things we have talked about in 2018, but there is a difference, because for surplus heat there was not a model with a negotiation that should be within a framework of 100 million. kr. I can promise, on behalf of the government, that we can put forward a model which translates a lower tax on surplus heat within a framework of 100 million. kr., but there is just no agreement on it; there is just no agreement on it within the conciliation circle, because it was a model to be negotiated. On the other hand, the text that was read by Mr. Mikkel Dencker, very precise, namely that the parties also agree to put a stop to new consumer bonds in the form of connection and retention obligations from 1 January 2019. It is not a debate, it is a very clear text of agreement on something that needs to be implemented and, moreover, it is entirely in line with the papers issued in May, after the memory of 18 May, which were confirmed in a conciliation note at the beginning of September. So there has been no ambiguity about what should happen to conciliation bindings. The fact is that there was another area on which we disagreed: what should happen to existing conciliation bindings. In other words, should conciliation in areas where there is currently a conciliation tie be abolished, so that consumers who are currently tied to district heating could go somewhere else or replace their district heating supply with another heating supply? We recognized that we could not reach agreement on this, and that is why we chose that part to be examined in more detail. And no decision has been taken, and no pledge is being held on any parties as to what they might think when we examined it to the bottom; we will negotiate on that when we get there. However, on this point, what should happen to new consumer bonds, the agreement was quite clear and fully in line with the notes given in advance. This meant that the municipalities have actually had the period, from we agreed the energy settlement at the end of June, to New Year's Eve to adopt new consumer bonds, if they so wish. If there is one area where they are in doubt as to whether there should be consumer bonds in order to secure the economy of a project, then it has been possible to do so completely freely and within the framework of the agreement we have concluded. This means that, hopefully, the municipalities have assessed whether there are any of the areas that today either do not have a consumer bond or have a voluntary consumer bond, and there they will make a mandatory forward-looking approach. They have had six months, so to speak, to get it in place. However, the text of the agreement is quite clear in the agreement we have reached, namely that the parties agree to put an end to new consumer ties in the form of a commitment to membership and retention obligations from 1 January 2019, and we of course insist on this, fortunately with the support of the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in the future. Then there has been a discussion next to it, namely what this means in relation to KommuneKredit's loan in this area, and then I was very pleased when I read KommuneKredit's own consultation answer, where they write at the bottom of page 4 that KommuneKredit in relation to the specific bill considers that the abolition of access to impose new consumer bonds does not in itself change the fact that investments in collective heat supplies constitute a public task for which KommuneKredit can provide funding. This means that even if we adopt the bill here, it does not change anything about all the loans that have been granted, because municipality credit can continue to grant those loans. There has been an uncertainty, and I do not know that from the mayor of Herning, but from the chairman of the municipalityKredit it is, by the way, the same person, so there may be a little division in the positions from time to time after many careful discussions, and therefore I am also very pleased that the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate clearly says in their consultation note that they note that the bill does not alter the municipalities' access to provide a guarantee for loans, whether it is loans in the municipalityKredit or in the private sector either. So for all the existing loans, there is no change. KommuneKredit has an ongoing discussion that they would like to have a guarantee that all loans they provide are always approved in accordance with the State aid rules. Unfortunately, a Parliament cannot make such legislation that was so simple about it, because the state aid rules are international and are assessed jointly in the European Union, and that is therefore not something we can legislate about by saying that any loan granted by MunicipalityKredit is subject to state aid rules. But what is at the heart of this, and what I would just like to emphasise as clearly as I can at all, is that the legislative proposal that will be adopted shortly, does not then look forward to us meeting at the beginning of the new year and having a good and thorough discussion of how conciliation law and conciliation practice will be in the future at Christiansborg. I believe that it is contrary to the conciliation agreement that we are not voting in favour of this bill, which so unequivocally translates a very, very clear sentence into the text of the agreement. But I look forward to discussing this further with the conciliation circle when we have time to meet in early 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112031	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112038	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance. I am also looking forward to discussing conciliation practices. After all, the Minister for Finance had some very long days in June about the negotiations here. Nor do I think the Minister for Finance have any doubts as to what the Social Democrats thought about whether or not to protect investments made. That is why I am a little surprised that we are now turning this into a very new issue. It is also a bit surprising to me that we are surprised at this at the third reading, or it was probably at second reading that we were very surprised at it when we asked a month ago to have it at a conciliation meeting, because we wanted to discuss it. When the government chooses to say that when we have a disagreement, we have to talk about that, then we have to find out, I thought: fine, that is what we do in a conciliation circle. When we had the next conciliation meeting, the announcement was: we do not think that is necessary anymore; we are now going to the Parliamentary Assembly. So I think we should have a discussion on how to deal with conciliation parties, which are both about sticking to what has been agreed, but that we should also find each other where we do not agree. And if we are to start implementing such textually, that is, if you write one line of energy reconciliation into legislation, then those who have been involved in the energy conciliation must vote for the whole legislation, then we end up in a completely different place from what was actually intended with the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112205	Of course, you cannot take one line and put into any legislative proposal and say that now you have to vote in favour. But that's not what's at the heart, sir. Jens Joel. Well, the core here isn't really complicated. There is a sentence and a half in the agreement on page 11, which says: "The Parties also agree to put a stop to new consumer bonds in the form of a commitment to connect and remain as of 1 January 2019. That is what you are now choosing not to vote in favour of. The difference is, of course, that with regard to other parts of this agreement we disagreed about which model we should choose and therefore said that it should be negotiated. And that is where we just have to acknowledge, and that is how it can sometimes be that the negotiations went further than what we expected. In fact, I am personally surprised that what I thought there was support for about profit heating because I actually thought that the model was reasonably clear. The government is still prepared to put forward a proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly, which translates the 100 million. kr. exactly after the things we talked about this summer. But on this point there is no possibility of interpretation. There is a very clear phrase on which we have written a legislative proposal, and we expect that will be adopted shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112317	Yeah, well, I understand that the government still thinks the government's proposal on excess heat is the right one. The difference between that case and this case is that in the case of the excess heat, the government does not have a majority, because there is indeed the opposition in the DF that the proposal put forward by the government is not good enough. That is why it has not ended up in the Chamber, because there is no way to shoot oneself through the tent, and I do not think there is any reason for us to do that in an area where we otherwise work closely and confidently together. So I think that if the Minister of Finance would like to discuss conciliation, we could, of course, have a real discussion on the differences that have arisen. Instead, however, we are now sending a letter saying that we want to talk to us in January and that we understand that we are going to vote in favour, because that is the way it must be. Of course, we cannot do that. We expect the concerns that are being addressed in the country to be addressed, and we expect in substance that what is important is that investments already in place and made are not jeopardised. That is what the consultation parties say there is a risk of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112430	But no matter how many times Mr. Jens Joel repeats a claim, it won't be right anymore. There is no increased risk of investments already made. There's always a danger in investment, but this bill doesn't change there's no change in this bill on that point. Therefore, the assessment is that for surplus heat there is a model. There's a model from the government that stays within the 100 million. DKK allocated and other models that do not remain within that amount. We have set aside the money from 2020 and I am quite sure that it will be possible to find a model and change the legislation so that that money can come into play from 2020. I would have liked to have seen this happen already now, and I would like to make an effort to find a model in early 2019 so that we can move forward as soon as possible. However, we need to talk to each other about whether we can be involved in a conciliation and then vote against or vote yellow to proposals that so clearly and unequivocally translate the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112533	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112539	Well, I look forward very much to that January meeting on conciliation, and I think it would be very good if we could get a note at that meeting about what happened when we had the coastal windmill supply, where serious companies had been preparing for a very long time to come up with a good price; that kind of thing costs a lot of millions to make a bid for, as it is a billion investment. But then it was seen that a climate and energy minister in the former pure Left Government went out and raised doubts as to whether that tender would be carried out and whether a contract would be concluded. Try to make a note of that process so that we can take it with us if we need to talk about how to comply with agreements. I think that is extremely important. We have also seen in the past that suddenly it happened that someone wanted to make a technology-neutral offer, but that was not exactly what was in the old energy agreement, and that the existing agreement was then modelled because there was a majority in favour of doing something else. So there are examples of non-compliance with agreements. And then I think it's really good that Jens Joel has brought out this problem we have with excess heat, where we have not come up with a solution. Can the Minister not see that the government itself has some significant difficulties in complying with agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112653	The government is fully respecting the agreement. We had called for the negotiations in order to get a solution made in the autumn of 2018. After all, we cannot force the parties to accept a solution that we have not agreed in advance. But again, there's a difference. A solution should be found to the excess heat. On the stop for consumer bonds, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten yes to the text that was in the agreement • a very, very clear text. I would also like to talk about the coastal windmills, because the then Minister for Energy, according to the usual method of conciliation, raised a matter of whether to change a settlement. You can do that. We can discuss whether or not to change a settlement. And I would have liked to have seen the coastal offshore wind turbines moved further away from land, especially in view of the fall in prices we have had on offshore wind turbines in recent times. I would have liked to have seen that, so that they would not be so close to the West Coast where they are now being built. We could not change that, so we did not propose an amendment on it. We lived up to normal conciliation practices, and I would actually think it would suit Enhedslisten to do that in this matter too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112754	What caused us to end up there was that the Conservatives stood by the fact that the tender we were in the middle of was to be carried out. So thank you to the Conservatives for what did not make it possible for the Left to break a settlement in the middle of a public procurement procedure, which is very expensive to carry out. First, a large vvm study had been carried out, and then there were a number of companies that were ready to come up with a price, and it ended up being a low price. I think that the Minister completely ignores the million-dollar cost of getting ready for such an invitation to tender. It's not something it's gonna end up in again. So I look forward to having the meeting where good conciliation practices can be discussed, so there is support behind the energy conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112838	I understand that Enhedslisten wants to talk about a different matter from the one that lies here. The point here is that there is a very clear text of the agreement, namely that the parties undertake to stop new consumer bonds from 1 January 2019. And if the Enhedslisten does what they have indicated, they will soon not vote for anything that clearly translates into an agreement. This is just contrary to the way we normally comply with conciliation bindings, which is why the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate and I have called for a meeting in January to discuss how to ensure that we have a similar understanding of how to comply with the agreements we enter into in the field of energy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112914	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Finance. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220112925	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. And we are giving just a little extra time for the good of the honourable Members. The vote is closed. In favour 60 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 47 (S, EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113021	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113039	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113107	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113124	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113159	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113207	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113237	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113255	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? The tax minister does. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113344	Thank you. When I take the floor here, it is because two parties have said that they will explain their position on the third reading. It is the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats. Now there was a little discussion before about the law of conciliation and agreement, but in this case I would like to say on behalf of the government that this is entirely justified, because we have had some outstanding issues which we have first clarified and made a process for the third reading of this excellent legislative proposal. It is about the fact that we have made an agreement in three ministerial areas with the bill we just voted through, on control measures in the area of transport, building and housing, this bill, which contains some reasonable tax advantages for summer house owners and all-year residential rental, and then a bill that comes in the new year in the area of the Minister of Industry, on how many days you can rent out. We have tried to achieve parallelity in all three proposals, but that has not been possible. Among other things: We have had some longer discussions with the Ministry of Justice about what sanctions can then be allowed and how we can make an opportunity to honour what is in the agreement, namely an administrative penalty formula if you break this rental ceiling. This has now been confirmed and a form has been found in which it can be done. This will then have to be translated into a legislative proposal in the area of the Minister of Industry in the new year, and we will of course have to discuss this further. But a process has been found for that. So we agree to solve that problem, and the government expects us to resolve it together in the new year. I would also like to make that clear here today. That's one thing. The second thing is that there has been a concern about what happens to room rental and other things. And there we have agreed that in the second half of 2019 we will meet and look at how big a problem this is, and there I would like to make it clear as Minister of Taxation that if it is a big problem, we are also willing to tighten it up. However, we have agreed to discuss this in the second half of 2019. The third thing is that the municipalities, who have asked for tools to enforce the rental ceiling that comes on the rental of these apartments, have got a lot of things in the bill that lies in the area of the Transport, Building and Housing Minister. But they have also wanted some additional things, and there the Minister of Industry and I have given that commitment, and we are happy to do so here today, that we would like to meet with the National Association of Local Authorities and discuss what further ideas they might have, so we will ensure that the shared economy we now provide good framework conditions, and that Danes are now allowed to rent out their accommodation, also within the tax rules we have laid down, so that the tax is paid, but also within the rental ceilings that we have agreed. But with that assurance, I hope there will be support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113636	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113647	Thank you for that, President. With the very fine speech that the tax minister chose to make here at the third reading, I can say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that we support the bill. There is no doubt that this bill is a draft law that has been debated. It is the whole question of shared economy and platform economy and airbnb that is a central part of it. We've had a concern that the control of this area was strong enough. This applies both to tax control, but it also applies, as the Minister mentioned, to the powers which the municipalities must have in this area. However, with the things presented here by the tax minister, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, not least because we have now agreed that the evaluation of room rental, which the tax minister also mentioned, will be brought forward so that it will take place in the second half of 2019. And when we get there, we have to look at whether control has proved effective, whether more money needs to be spent on it, or whether there is a need for new tools to ensure what we all agree on, by the way, that this is a fine legislative proposal, but that there must of course be effective control over the rental of rooms, including in this context. So the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113807	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113813	Thank you. As the Minister for Taxation rightly said, there have been a number of outstanding issues regarding the implementation of the agreement on the shared economy, but there we feel like the social democracy, and as I am actually saying, it is well assured that it is now in good shape that we will have a further discussion of the subsequent draft law, but I also think it is worth noting that the government has indicated that they are also having a good discussion with the municipalities to find out if they have now got the right powers so that they can also follow up on the task, as well as with the Danish Business Authority. We also look forward to this evaluation of the room rental part already in the second quarter of 2019 because it is one of the places where we also have some concerns about whether we now have the right rules in place. But it must also be said that this is a new area that we have been moving into with shared economy and room rental of full-year residences, so there will probably be some adjustments when we look at the evaluation later. But we feel comfortable with the statement made by the Minister and with the annexes he has sent to the committee, so that is why we in my party can also vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113920	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220113928	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114013	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114024	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 101 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114046	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114110	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114118	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114127	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 100 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114151	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114214	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114239	I think it's a good idea to keep it down there for a while in the field of ministers. This is disturbing to the President, and it is not good. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114314	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 99 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114340	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 99 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114431	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114448	I owe you an answer to this. We have asked a number of questions and the last answers have only come late last night. For the Radical Left, it is important that we work together in Europe on this, but it is also important for us that we ensure that there are very strict rules on when to monitor. That's why I've had to drill into this bill a little bit to make sure that the government didn't sort of sneak something extra in relation to the directive. But I have been told by the Ministry of Justice that nothing has been added, that is to say for the part of the legislative proposal which is regulated in the directive, that which, for example, has been added. It's about how long you can keep the information, here it's one for you. The government has not put in extra. For the part of the directive in which it is up to us as a country to decide which model we would like to have is the only new one, apart from the fact that there is now a new PNR unit, that the Defence Intelligence Service will have the opportunity to follow Danish citizens in the very special situation in which a Dane travels with a suspected foreigner. It's agreed in the defense circle. So we have been told by the government that nothing has been added, and that makes me feel safe as a radical. That is why we can also vote in favour of this bill. I have one request for implementation. We have received a request from the IT association PROSA, which has a technical model on how to ensure that the police are allowed to follow designated persons only, which can technically be done by making what is called a private community, abbreviated psi, which is a technique that allows the police to identify the part of the passengers on the police list of suspects, without the police being able to identify those who are not on the list and without the airline having access to the police list of suspects. In this way, the police will not be able to identify the individual citizen who goes on business or vacation, but only be able to follow the conduct of the suspect, and thus there will be interference in the privacy of far fewer innocent people. I have asked the Minister for Justice about this proposal and have received an answer that the police should have access to PNR data only to the extent that the information is necessary. I therefore think that we should actually be able to find each other in a technical solution that will ensure that it is as limited as possible, and that is why I would urge the Minister of Justice to involve the relevant professionals in the actual implementation of the bill. After all, they have much more technical knowledge than we do about what can be done, and when they show a way to how we can limit monitoring, we should also follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114751	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114755	I would like to hear from the rapporteur precisely on the basis of the consultations that have come from, among other things. PROSA and IT Politic Association etc., if you are still safe to vote in favour when there are so many outstanding issues. After all, this is a very, very violent proposal which will lead to a very high level of monitoring for all of us as citizens. That is why I think that all the outstanding issues still outstanding around implementation should be said to say: 'No' must therefore be voted on. Then we have to come up with a legislative proposal which also sets out all the things that could make this a little better. So how can you be safe when you don't know if any of this is being considered in the implementation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114840	It is important for us in the Radical Left that we work together in Europe on this point, and that is why it is also important for us in Denmark to make the legislation that is needed in order for us to be able to participate. It is true that if there had been a radical Justice Minister, we could have worked this much more through before we had to press the green button. It does not, and that is why I call on the government to continue working on it here in the concrete implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114903	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114905	Strong cooperation in Europe is a good thing, but implementation, for example, in Europe. After all, Denmark is not something on which the other European countries are involved in cooperation. It's happening here in the Folketing, it's the government that's made some choices. Do you really have so much peace in your stomach that you say that you hope that you will succeed in a proper implementation? One could have said no to this and made sure that we actually implemented it, so that the concerns that the rapporteur himself was reading were taken into account. I just have to hear: is there complete calm in the stomach in the Radical Left in relation to the increased monitoring that is happening with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220114948	I'm calm in my stomach, considering I've got the clear answer from the Justice Department that nothing has been added. That was the first important thing. Then there is the second question about how to implement it in concrete terms. There we attach great importance to finding a technical solution that will prevent us from monitoring innocent people. That is why I say very clearly to the Ministry of Justice and to the Minister of Justice that I think it is important that they involve the professionals in this area in making the right technical solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115021	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115031	Thank you. I think it is the case that the radical rapporteur is being listened to with increasing surprise. It sounds like the Radical Left is against surveillance, and that is actually fine. The Radical Left may be, but when it is the European Union that says that we must have surveillance, then it is okay, and then the crucial element for the Radical Left is that nothing is added on the Danish side, because just as soon as the least is added on the Danish side, it would be a problem for the Radical Left. Isn't that a rather odd view to take? Can it really not be boiled down to the fact that whatever the European Union is doing is the right thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115114	It may be a surprise for the Danish People's Party, but the EU is not such a hush hush that just suddenly dumps things off. After all, it is politicians like us who have adopted it. We ourselves have had a radical part in the work, and that is why we are also in favour of the agreements that we have concluded. We in the Folketing are doing that, and we in the European Parliament are doing so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115135	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115140	It sounds like Mrs Lotte Rod thinks that this is something completely new. It's not. We've had a PNR register in Denmark for years. After all, this is all about adapting the internal Danish rules to allow them to join in with the PNR system that is being set up within the EU framework. That is also why I simply do not understand that the Radical Left has the automatic reaction of saying that, if only it is something that comes from the European Union, then it is okay, but if we are going to add something to it at home, it is just, whatever it may be, per year. definition bad. Why is it that what the European Union does is done per year? definition is good and that what we do in Denmark per year. So, definition must be bad? I just can't understand it. It doesn't make sense. That is not logical in my head unless you have completely deposited your political power in Brussels. This is then an opportunity which I would not suspect the Radical Left for not taking advantage of either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115235	But I think what says more about how the Danish People's Party thinks about the European Union than it says anything about the Radical Left. I mean, for us, the European Union is not a particular thing. It is as political as the Folketing is, and therefore it is clear that we will of course be more in agreement with what is close to radical politics than we will agree with what is far away from radical politics. This is true whether it is in the Folketing or it is in the EU. That is why my point here today is that the Radical Left wants very, very strict rules as to when people can be monitored. We do not want a surveillance society, and that is why it has been important for us to say that we have to live up to what is necessary in order for us to be able to be with the other EU countries on this, but we do not want the government to use this opportunity to sneak in extra surveillance through the back door. There I have the clear answer from the Ministry of Justice that nothing is being added, and we think that is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115332	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115337	Because of the legal reservation, this is a parallel agreement. As the rapporteur also says, we could have arranged ourselves in many different ways, including with the excellent proposal that was just outlined from up here. And that is why I simply cannot understand why, in something so far-reaching as this proposal, all people's flights, what you eat, who you travel with, where you go, credit card information is gathering everything for all people. You could have made a much more specific model of who you might suspect. That is not what is being done here, and I simply cannot understand why the Radical Left is supporting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115419	We support this proposal because we think it is important that we work with the other European countries in Denmark. That is why it is also important that we have legislation that allows us to be with the other countries on this. And then there are some technical options to ensure that more people are not monitored than is absolutely necessary. And there are some experts who have far more control than we have as politicians. And that is why I call on the Minister of Justice to ensure that they are involved in the actual implementation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115455	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115458	All due respect to Mrs Lotte Rod's request, but the Minister obviously does not intend to follow it. Well, I guess they would have said that that is a very good idea, and we will take that into account in the work. The Minister clearly does not say that, and precisely in this area I have no confidence in the current government or the current Minister for Justice in ensuring people's fundamental right to privacy, if you are not specifically suspected of anything. We have seen this over and over again with logging rules and so on. We have a legal reservation and we could have made a parallel agreement that was very, very specific in that you only go after someone when there is a concrete suspicion. This is mass surveillance of all citizens. That's what they say in the IT-Politics Association, PROSA and anyone who knows about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115548	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115551	You can basically have two approaches to politics. You can feel that if you don't feel exactly the way you want it, you're outside and you're against it. Or you can have the attitude that I think most in the Radical Left are passionate about, namely that you bite onto the table and try as hard as you can to pull it as far as you can. And for us in the Radical Left it is not a solution to vote 'no', because then there is nothing. I mean, we need to get the legislation in place so that we can work with the other countries on this. Then I fully agree with the SF that we must hold the Minister of Justice to that. We must ensure that the concrete solutions found actually comply with the principle that the Minister of Justice says in his reply to me, namely that information should only be available to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115645	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115656	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115735	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115744	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstained 0 The bill has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115817	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115826	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115857	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115913	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220115949	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120000	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. Well, I'm gonna have to ask you to be quick on the buttons. There's no point in sitting around and fumbled. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and Villum Christensen (LA)), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and if everyone is ready to vote, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120114	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120144	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120154	The majority will be voting down this motion for a resolution shortly. We find this incomprehensible and unacceptable. The pressure on refugees that was there a few years ago is no longer there at all. These are some of the weakest people in the world whom, contrary to all Danish traditions, we refuse to accept. That is why it is completely contrary to the humanist approach to refugees and other people that we stand for and that previous governments have also stood for. It was, as is perhaps well known, the former Prime Minister of the Left, Poul Hartling, who initiated this quota refugee system. In addition, and it is just as serious that this is also about the UN. It is not just about refugees, but also about the UN, about Denmark's respect for the UN. For a system of solidarity in terms of refugees presupposes the involvement of the United Nations, which is why this quota system is extremely important if we are serious about the United Nations. And the fact that we are unsolidarously leaving this scheme means that other countries can do the same, and suddenly solidarity starts to slip around these issues. So, as I said, we are incomprehensible about this. We do not understand that the Folketing cannot see that 500 quota refugees are not something that overturns Danish integration or the Danish immigration policy, and that it is important that we continue to be part of the solidarity arrangements expressed by the United Nations and that we still clearly demonstrate that the United Nations is something in which Denmark actively participates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120358	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is not, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120405	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 87 abstentions (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted in favour and against. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120445	No amendments have been tabled. Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120501	Since 2016, 62 children have been expelled, although one of their parents may be in Denmark even if they are stepchildren of a Danish citizen. Radicals have put forward this proposal to stop dividing families; we want to reunite families. Unfortunately, a majority of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the government have indicated that they will vote against our proposal shortly, even though the daily B.T. has described that very few of these children are Muslims, that they have hardly been to Koran school, and that you make that decision in 6 hours without talking to either the family or the child. It's a clean desk exercise. Both B.T. and TV 2 has also had one specific story after another about children who are well integrated and families that work well, but where the child is expelled. Yesterday, the Foreign Minister announced that the government will change the law. This proposal does not allow Mint and the 61 other deported children to come to Denmark. I got a message last night from Mint's father, who is in Thailand and is deeply unhappy. His family still cannot be gathered in Denmark. I understand that families will be completely prevented from being assembled in Denmark after 3 months in Denmark. That is why we will still see quite unreasonable and completely incomprehensible expulsions. I am pleased that the pressure of the Radical Left has worked and that the majority will now negotiate. This shows that even foreign policy can be moved. It gives us the courage and blood on our tooth to continue the fight. If the majority wants to avoid breaking up families, the easiest thing would have been to vote in favour of this proposal. The Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the government will not. But here I can promise from the platform that the Radical Left will continue our struggle for Danes who have found love abroad to live in their homeland with their spouse and their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120741	Thank you. No one wants to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120749	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120823	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120848	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One of the committee? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120856	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120901	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120934	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220120945	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220121014	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 8 January 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website. I hereby declare the last meeting of this year to be concluded and wish to see everyone again in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181220121031	But it will not be a reunion with Parliamentary Secretary Claus Dethlefsen, who would like to end his retirement. I'd like to say a few words to you, Claus, just off the agenda, if you don't mind. As chairman of the Folketing, it has been a huge privilege to have you by my side. As members we may disagree on a lot here in the Danish Parliament, but I know that we all share the view that you are and always have been a really good parliamentary secretary. I share that view both with former presidents, members of the Bureau and all members of the Folketing. Firstly, you have a very high level of practical and theoretical knowledge of parliamentary work. From your many years in the Assembly Hall you have an impressive memory and can also remember the very rarely occurring cases. Second, you're incredibly thorough and you're thinking forward. You have always thought in advance about what can happen, so you are ready to advise and act immediately. Thirdly, as a parliamentary secretary, you are trusting, credible, diplomatic and discreet and always helpful to everyone. You will be missed here in the Folketing. I can't believe you're saying you're retiring because you're gonna have to deal with everything else, so you might as well have stayed here. I wish you a long and good retirement in any case. Finally, I would like to thank all Members for their dedicated debates and debates and wish everyone a merry Christmas and a very happy New Year.
