ParlaMint-DK_20180529110008	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529110026	Today we mark that it was 100 years ago yesterday that the first meeting was held at the present third Christiansborg. Buildings create people like clothes create people. Christiansborg has been an inspirational framework for the Danish people's government for 100 years. Even after I've had my walk in here for 34 years, I still enjoy this beautiful building every day when I walk up the main stairs. Christiansborg is a unique house with lots of quirks, hooks and stairs.There are our lovely meeting hall and Hikrehallen with the decorated frieze with the old Danish sayings and puzzles. When I visit the parliaments of other countries, I cannot help but say to myself: yes, yes, it is very nice, but it is certainly not a castle. So there are not many parliamentary houses in the world that can compare with our rich history and from a time when the building details were cuddled. We are celebrating not only bricks and mortar today, but all the activities that the building has been setting for 100 years. When the Reichstag returned to Slotsholmen in 1918, it was back to the place where the Basic Law Assembly had drawn up the first constitution. It was here that the Reichstag held its first meeting on January 30, 1850. For 34 years, the Reichstag was able to hold onto the castle before it burned. After the fire, the Reichstag temporarily moved to Fredericia Street, but came to be there for 34 years. When the Reichstag finally moved back to Christiansborg in 1918, there was reason to rejoice over the new premises, that the constitutional battle was over and that a new constitution had been adopted. The Constitution strengthened democracy, recognised parliamentarianism, abolished the privileged right to vote and extended the right to vote to include women and servants. Kong Christian X gave the festive speech at the opening in 1918 and called for cooperation, because during the constitutional battle in the late 1800s the Danish Parliament had been marked by dispute between the Landsting and the Danish Parliament. Now there was reason to think new, and the new framework allowed for closer cohesion. In 1918 the shadow of World War I was over the work. Members of that time had reason to remind each other that it was important to uphold democracy. At the 25th anniversary of 1943 Denmark was occupied, so it was also important at that time to guard over freedom and democracy. Fortunately, in 1968, on the 50th anniversary, one could look back at a period when democracy had not only survived the world wars but also been strengthened. Fifty years ago, the meeting was opened with a joyful announcement that the successor to the throne had descended with a son. Today we can congratulate Hans Royal Highness Crown Prince Frederik with the 50 years of Saturday. Today, on the 100th anniversary, which was yesterday, we have a healthy and viable democracy, but there is reason to remember that we cannot take democracy for granted. We have to take care of it, and we have to take care of it. Out in the world we can see several countries where democracy is threatened. But we can welcome the Danish democracy, where the vote is high in every parliamentary election. The Danes support democracy and are active in democracy in their children's school, in the workplace and in associations, wherever it is possible to make a mark on the everyday life in which we live. This support for democracy is important. The foundation is solid and rooted, but we must continue to develop it. We find that the Danish people are interested in what is going on here in the building. That's a good thing. We also note an increased interest in visiting Christiansborg and seeing the building and the premises. That is why we are discussing these years what initiatives we can take to open up more and involve even more people in democratic processes. We must, in broad cooperation, change and renew the rule of the people in order to ensure that it continues to live. It has been constantly changed, and I think it is important that we also have a look in the future for the development of parliamentary work. Major changes have taken place in the last 100 years. The parliamentary system has changed from a two-chamber system to a one-chamber system. After the Landsting was abolished in 1953, the Folketing became solely responsible for the legislation, and the Folketing has since become more independent in relation to the government. In 1918 the Danish Parliament was largely concerned only with the legislative proposals put forward by the government. Today, members of parliament are not content to deal with government proposals, but are increasingly using the opportunity to set a political agenda for themselves. Members make their own political statements to the government. The parliamentary committee also plays a larger and more active role than in the past. The Folketing has gained more power. Today there are more outgoing activities than in 1918. Today we are much more open about the work of the Danish Parliament and we want to take even more steps in this direction and create greater openness and involve citizens even more. In recent years, at conferences with the government, we have discussed the parliamentary work and the relationship between the government and the Folketing. All conferences have ended up with new initiatives that have been introduced to raise awareness of the debates in the Parliamentary Assembly. In order to strengthen interest, we have constantly changed the forms of debate and tightened the speaking times. In addition, we have launched new initiatives aimed at increasing the public's interest in what is going on. It is important to guarantee democracy in the future, and today the Folketing has many initiatives that make children and young people aware of the importance of democracy and encourage them to use their right to vote when they grow up enough to do so. In 1918 the present building was considered to be very large and spacious, but there was a rapid need for more space. The framework has also been expanded as the need has grown. Parliament now has much more premises than in 1918, but there have also been major changes in parliamentary work. We have more meetings and longer meetings. The committees shall hold consultations and open consultations. The parties have staffed and the Members are given more help. A hundred years ago, Members had to do everything on their own. Today, as elected representatives, we are, fortunately, getting more help, but more people are demanding more space, and we have to note that, with today's needs and current activities, one might think that there is not enough room. In 1918 everyone could enter the Castle, but it has been necessary to strengthen security in recent years due to events that we have seen in the world. But the Folketing remains one of the most open parliaments in the world, and I think we all appreciate that: that is how it should be. The Folketing has got a website where all documents are freely available, the Folketing's own television channel allows everyone throughout the country to follow the debates, everyone can write directly to the politicians, and the distance to the politicians has been reduced. On this anniversary, I would like to express my hope that this unique building and the vacant premises of the National Archives will in future be the centre of political debate and reflection on how our people's rule is to develop and how democracy can be strengthened. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary, the sitting is now adjourned. Before we move on to today's agenda, it will be at 1 p.m. 11.15 be a celebration on the 1st floor of 100 minutes duration, where everyone throughout the house is invited. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130001	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following review: Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of entrepreneurship companies (IVS)). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130025	Member of the Folketing Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt has requested that his leave, which under Rule 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Point (c) of paragraph 3 was granted on 5 October 2017, as from 29 May 2018, converted into leave pursuant to paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130102	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 67 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour, 79 (S, DF, V, RV, KF and Mette Bock (LA) ), against 20 (EL, LA, SF and 1 KF), abstained from voting 6 (ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 67 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 66 of Stine Brix (EL) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130213	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 61 by Jep Jakobsen (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 61 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 60 by Annette Lind (S), Stine Brix (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130325	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 63 by Denni Flydtkjær (DF), Martin Geertsen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 20 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 34 (S and RV). Proposal for adoption No V 63 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 62 by Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), Christine Antorini (S), Jette Gottlieb (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Martin Lidegaard (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130437	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 64 by Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Christian Juhl (EL), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (NQ), Magni Arge (T) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 23 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 64 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 65 of Henrik Brodersen (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130639	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130728	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130757	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130816	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130847	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130909	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), against 5 (RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130940	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529130957	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131024	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131048	Thank you for that, President. The amendment has been tabled by the alternative because the government and parties behind the defence settlement have decided to behave extremely unsolidarously towards the 1 million citizens living in general housing. We do not believe that the Folketing can be familiar with this. The amendment actually makes it relatively simple to behave properly and fairly towards the general sector and towards our fellow citizens. And this is a situation where we can actually get a boat and; we can get a win-win instead of a either-or, black-and-white, where the state goes in and lurks on ordinary citizens and the economy for their homes. On paper Denmark's general housing is self-employed collectively owned companies. The government and parliament can't sell them. However, because of the compulsory payments to the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden) which, by the way, resulted from a very good idea, for example, that free value could be used to build new public housing... the government and parties behind the defence settlement can apparently afford to use the citizens of the general sector as dairy cattle to finance the room for manoeuvre, the defence settlement or the general costs of society. And you don't have to be afraid of the concept of dairy cattle I can refer to the Boston matrix, which is an economic model used at the School of Business, for what stages a product is in. And right now, the general housing is evidently in the category of dairy cattle, cash cow, vis-à-vis the state. There are nearly 1 million Danes living in our common-owned general dwellings, and the dwellings are approx. 20% 20 per cent of all households in the country.! It is a wide range of our population, but yes, the general sector has an overweight of citizens who are economically weaker in the housing market, including elderly residents in nursing homes, young students in colleges and youth housing, and, of course, people who have been subjected to a ruinous divorce, loss of work, sickness or failed integration. In short, these are many of them, which we all too often exhibit as scapegoats, the lazy, the unemployed, those on transfer income, those in parallel communities. All too often, many of these citizens are made almost the only reason why we face the challenges of the general sector, although this is far more a structural challenge: lack of access to proactive action, lack of help for the vulnerable, for education, for the labour market, for inclusion, for recognition. As is the case with a large part of the legislative proposals presented by the government, most recently with the parallel society package, it is being made their own problem, and thus they must again experience further punishment, additionally forced to one thing and the other; forced to move, forced to put their 1-year-old child in a retail-run crèche, while again neglecting the structural causes of the very fact that many municipalities have assigned far too many disadvantaged citizens to these areas for too long, that the municipalities have forced them together to start with the fact that many of the housing departments' financing is so inappropriate that their competitive situation in the capital market has simply been and is too poor and that it is therefore difficult to attract other segments of our population. And that is what we are dealing with today, when we are dealing with the third reading of draft law L 206 on the financing of general housing. However, although there is an over-representation of the aforementioned segments, the majority of our citizens in the general sector are well-functioning and good citizens. And together, these must be milked by the state and the parties behind the defence settlement, instead of thinking long-term and allowing the general sector to gain their legitimate and fair economic advantage by redeploying the loans. The whole argument that the state is taking a high risk with the new state-guaranteed loans does not stand up, because it is the Landsbygningsfonden that takes by far the greatest risk, and it has always done so, and it continues to do so after the bill. To those of you who do not know the Landsbygningsfonden, I would say that it is based solely on citizens' contributions through their rents in general housing. This means that it is the tenants' money that lies in the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden), which comes exclusively from the one million citizens living in general housing. And the Landsbygningsfonden spends this money to provide support for renovation in general housing. They use them to support residential units that are in difficulty, residential units that are in bankruptcy. They use them for capital injection, a pentagonal scheme, housing social contributions, rent reductions, and yes, the Landsbygningsfonden also supports new construction for tenants' money. So the substantial weight and responsibility for the risks associated with the general housing is placed with the Landsbygningsfonden. The government itself writes this in the bill on page 9, columns two and three, i.e. that the Landsbygningsfonden is very much helping to reduce the risk of loans to general housing. Nevertheless, one million citizens living in general housing have to put up with the fact that, in addition to some of them paying inappropriately high rates of contributions to the Landsbygningsfonden, the State and the parties to the agreement come behind the defence settlement and milk them for revenue which ought to be theirs and which should go to the Landsbygningsfonden, to ensure that they all have a decent home and a decent kitchen, which is also in good condition in 30 years' time. So we need to have the dialogue on how to make a radical reform of funding in the general housing sector, and in the alternative we would very much like to give our views on how to make the general housing sector more equal to other types of housing on the housing market. But today it is about this one amendment, and it is about L 206 and loans on the basis of State-guaranteed bonds. And somehow our leading politicians have managed to talk about the Landsbygningsfonden as a huge pile of free money, but the Landsbygningsfonden has no free money, in fact it has a debt of 7 billion. kr. in 2018, and it increases with government plans. First, the government started by taking 13 billion. kr. more to fund the parallel community package and praise in particular to the Social Democracy and DF to stop it. But the current debt has been imposed on the Landsbygningsfonden by former governments, blue as red, by the state taking money from the Landsbygningsfonden, lending the Landsbygningfonden the same money and otherwise charging interest on the loan. The debt is expected to be paid by future generations. It's smart for our Finance Act... we get used to it... but it's expensive for society, and it's expensive for the future. And now this extra trick comes on top of differential interest payments to the state, so that the government and the parties behind the defense settlement can milk the general sector right to the last drop. So the proposed amendment suggests that we get a both-and-solution here in a respectful and proper way, so that the state can make a profit by redeploying the loans and they can make money by redeploying the loans. However, the citizens and the Landsbydfonden must also have a fair income to ensure their viability in the future. I hope you can back that up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131811	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131816	Thank you to the alternative for tabling an amendment so that we can have a vote here at the third reading, just as we had a vote at second reading, in which it was then a slightly more far-reaching proposal which gave more money to the Landsbygningsfonden, so that it was all the savings that would have to go to the Landsbygningsfonden. Now the alternative has a proposal here, where it is a slightly smaller amount. It's sympathetic. After all, we are dealing with a case in which it is perfectly correct that the tenants in the general sector are being milked; all the cream has been skimmed, there will not even be a small glass of skimmed milk left for the residents. The parties behind the defense settlement take all the money. It is deeply unsympathetic, and I can fully follow that being said. We in the Enhedslist will vote in favour of that amendment and continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131901	Thank you very much for your comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It is true that we are dealing with 20%. of the housing stock, 1 million Danes, whom we choose to finance room for manoeuvre, defence reconciliation, whatever. It is fine if we can find a better method of financing the sector, as we have done here. We'll back that up. However, we also support the fact that we have to secure one million citizens and that they have decent homes far in the future. And legally, justly, properly, we have to give them the proceeds, as we would also do with the legislation in force, if we had to make state-guaranteed bonds without this differential rate calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131946	The next question is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529131953	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the nice praise to the Social Democratic Party, also in connection with the housing agreement. We're really happy about that. But I have to ask the rapporteur something. When it comes to the differential rate, will the rapporteur not be reassured that the general housing companies themselves, in their response to the consultation of the housing organizations, write that they are fully satisfied with the way in which they are organised? And they also write that they do not find any concern as long as the risk is not passed on to them in connection with these shifts. Does the rapporteur not find some comfort in the fact that those who, after all, sit here and end up having to pay are satisfied with the way in which this bill has been drafted?
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132031	Thank you. Partly, yeah. But I am more uneasy about the Landsbygningsfondensansvar, which just describes that they are worried about whether this means a greater cost to them. Then the government has amended the bill before it was tabled to ensure this. However, I have asked questions about the consultation answer and have still not been clarified as to whether this really means that citizens can be subject to a higher housing tax in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132058	Well then, I would urge the rapporteur to read the answer which has come from the Ministry of Transport today and which makes it quite clear that there will be no extra costs for tenants in the general housing sector. In that way, we could also save that concern, both for the rapporteur and for everyone else in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132114	Again, I fully agree with Mr. Kaare Dybvad. That's one side of the story, i.e. whether this involves direct extra costs. The other side of the coin is that we are dealing with approx. 100,000 homes built after 1990 on IS35 index loans, which are financed badly. And they need to be renovated. That's 67 billion. kr. expensive homes that need to be renovated, and they cannot afford that. The reason we are relocating our loans in our private homes is to have more room for manoeuvre so that we can renovate our homes. We're gonna redo the loans here so the state can milk it. It is not a matter of citizens having greater room for manoeuvre, not of citizens needing help to renovate their homes. No, we're just taking the money, and we think that's fine. It's really unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132158	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132211	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative, and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 3 by the same minority, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132245	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132254	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132326	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132355	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 by the Minister for Economic Affairs as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132404	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132413	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132442	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132501	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132529	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132546	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132613	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132635	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 86 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 20 (EL, ALT and RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132703	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132724	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132748	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132803	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132833	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132848	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132918	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529132938	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133002	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133046	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133113	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133134	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133140	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133149	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133215	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133237	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. In favour 23 (DF and 1 (V) (by mistake), 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted in favour and against. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133327	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133416	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133441	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133504	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133534	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133556	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, Christian Langballe (DF), V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133623	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133642	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133727	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133752	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133818	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 36 votes (DF, EL and ALT), 68 votes (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133850	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133918	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 35 (DF, EL and ALT), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529133951	The members of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party on the committee have informed me that they wish to accept Amendment No. 4 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. In addition, the members of the Enhedslisten have informed me that they wish to accept Amendment No. 5 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134038	Thank you. I will briefly outline the new amendment tabled by a number of parties. This amendment maintains that researchers will have access to secondary employment if the secondary employment is linked to the employment on which the alien's residence permit is based. The amendment removes the proposed possibility that other groups may have secondary employment for up to 12 hours a week on average without a renewed residence permit. Then why? Yes, it is because we are a few who have been critical of the whole process of opening up, in general terms, to more foreigners without first applying for permission, and that is why we have tried to tighten up and amend the initial proposal by the Minister, and this has been a long way along the way, as the latest amendment expresses. I shall say that it is made by the Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, SF and the Danish People's Party. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134137	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134147	Thank you, President. I would like to see how completely the removal of reality this process has been. We have seen examples in Denmark of some, for example. a CBS professor, musicians and others who work legally in Denmark have been affected by some very, very rigid rules. There was an example with someone who was giving talks about his work, and that was of course criminal. Therefore, I would not say all, but almost all parties here in the Folketing agreed that it does not make sense and that this is something we need to change. Social democracy even called the existing law a crazy alien law. That is why, at first reading, there was broad political support for the proposal here when it was put forward, because it makes good sense, for example, that it should be adopted. can work as a foreigner for 12 hours next door in connection with your main job, or that you can go out and help as a coach in a local football club as unpaid. It makes sense. The Social Democratic Party even said at first reading that the draft law meets these injustices. We basically think the bill is a good one,...•. The Social Democratic Party then wanted to exempt agriculture, and that is, of course, despite the fact that Danish agriculture is very much benefiting from foreign labour, and then they wanted to exempt drilling vessels of all things, and that is, of course, despite the fact that I know that in the last few years zero has been given as in zero residence and work permits for workers on drilling ships. As the latter does not prove legally possible, the Social Democratic Party does the number we see here: they remove the blanket under almost the entire bill with an amendment which means that in future only researchers will be included in this, and not the rest of the approx. 12,000 foreigners working under these schemes in Denmark. In other words, we are left with a legal system that has been reduced for a very large number of foreign workers to remain what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye called a crazy alien law. And I would remind you that this is at a time when Denmark is hungry for skilled labour, which should also come from abroad. So I hope to conclude here that the Social Democrats are aware of what they are really doing about the Danish labour market and about the very, very many foreigners who are contributing positively to our society. I also hope that the Social Democrats will come up here so that we can have a constructive talk about why the Social Democrats want to hit our foreign workers so hard. So, for the sake of good order, I would like to say in relation to the good amendment tabled by the Radicals to include musicians in the legislative proposal that it has come so late that we simply cannot assess whether it is in line with our international commitments and that we therefore have to vote against what it is now, but that this is, of course, something we would like to look at in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134440	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134448	It has been a far-reaching process, says the rapporteur of the Left. It has certainly been a long process, and it has indeed been because the government has put forward a bill which included 12,000 foreigners on the Danish labour market, when what was needed was to address some of the questions I agree with silly individual cases that have been raised, about researchers and musicians. So I'm just gonna have to go over the house in relation to the Left's rapporteur's charge that we should pull the blanket away under an important bill. No, we are making sure, with the amendment we have tabled, that this draft law solves the problem that we discussed at first reading and which has been the purpose of it, while taking seriously the concerns and warnings about social dumping. We are very much in favour of this. So I think that the rapporteur of the Left can pack up those somewhat insulted accusations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134533	Well, believe me, I'm really offended by this on behalf of the Danish labour market. If you look at what the Social Democratic Party said at first reading, then the Social Democratic Party made it very, very clear that they wanted to exempt the approx. 2,000 working in Danish agriculture. But it does mean that there are still about 10,000 foreigners who would have benefited from this, and suddenly from one day to the next you go out and say it's just the scientists. That is to say, you go from a group that should benefit from this, of about 10,000 or if it was up to us 12,000 to that it now becomes a minimal fraction. In my view, it is far removed from reality to make such a statement at first reading and then to do so here at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134615	Well, there's nothing sudden about this. The rapporteur himself has, of course, explained what steps we have been through. I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was also through the attempt to exclude agriculture and offshore. We could not do so, the government said, because of the conventions and human rights. Then I think that we landed in the very logical place where we dealt with the problems that were up and which led to the first reading of this bill, with regard to researchers and with regard to musicians. I think it was an oboist quite specific who had a case in the press. This amendment achieves that, and that is why there is no curtain under anything. There is a listening to the concerns, entirely legitimate concerns, about opening up social dumping to an extent that we do not want to be involved in and which I think the government should recognise raise some bigger issues than what we actually started out with wanting to address. So I'm gonna have to call in my house in relation to the Left's criticism here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134708	What I really cannot understand about this is that at first reading or in committee we saw that agriculture could actually be excluded from the legal framework. We were vertically opposed to this because we believe that Danish agriculture really, really, really benefits from having the foreign labour they need. It was then in relation to drilling ships that it could not be exempted. In view of the tiny obstacle, the Social Democratic Party, which has been talking very hard about the fact that this is a good bill to counter injustices, then chooses to remove these reliefs for all foreigners, apart from scientists. So they're a pretty small part of the 12,000. So you go from virtually embracing the bill as it is to largely removing the blanket underneath it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134754	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134759	Thank you. I think it would be fair enough to give Mr. Marcus Knuth is right that this has been a messy process. But it is also because the government chooses to change the rules on foreigners together with the alternative and radicals. I guess it'll get a little messy. So I hope the government and the Left will think about that in the future. Then maybe we could have had a more pretty course. Then I'd like to know if Mr. Knox didn't. Marcus Knuth can confirm that as the rules are today, a researcher or another foreigner who is covered by the original bill by the government can, of course, work well with something so that he can take a second job. Those are the rules today. A foreigner who is here on these rules will be able to take a second job today. So we have really spent a very, very long time trying to solve a problem that is not really a problem at all. Because today, you can actually take a second job. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134849	I think, sir. Martin Henriksen himself knows the cases that have been in the media, with a CBS professor giving a presentation, and a musician who is not allowed to play music because it is not part of the system as it is today. It is true that today you can go in and apply for it. You have to fill out, as I remember, a 19-page application. It's quite a hole in the head that a professor from, for example. The United States, who comes here and teaches, not without having to go through this very, very bureaucratic system can go out and give a lecture about its work or participate in his son's soccer training as a coach. This is common sense. That is why I commended the Social Democratic Party in the first place to say that the bill is countering these injustices. This is obviously not what Social Democracy means for the majority of those involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529134941	However, I am pleased that the rapporteur can confirm that, as the rules are today, there is a possibility of taking side jobs. That is why no one has been fined simply because they have taken a second job. There isn't. The debate that has been in the media and also the debate that has been political has been wrong; it has been manipulative. You have to remember to inform and ask permission. Then, of course, one can easily look at whether it is too bureaucratic to have to inform and ask for permission. That's fair enough. You can have an opinion on that. But the fact that we begin to relax control over a large group of foreigners, when we have an immigration of about 80 000 a year, I simply cannot be the policy of the Left. Because if you come here and apply for a work permit if you get it to a university or a company, it is a full-time job, and then if you want to start self-employment next to it, it is fair enough that the authorities know it, so they have little control of what is going on. But the point is just " and I'm glad that Marcus Knuth can confirm that you can actually have a second job today with the current rules, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135033	After all, it is no secret that, in relation to this part of foreign policy, the Left and the Danish People's Party simply do not see things the same. We want a Denmark that is open to people who come here to contribute, who come here from abroad to work, not least at a time when we are hungering for qualified labour. That paragraph does not always agree with DF. That is also why I hit the Social Democrats so hard, because they just said that they basically thought the bill was good. They supported our intention at first reading. Suddenly it is those who go in and make a turnaround and make that something that would be really, really good for a large part of the foreign people who work in Denmark is now being diluted into very, very little.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135114	The next question is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135117	I would like to ask, and I would like to ask on behalf of the Danish labour market, whether it is not a very good idea that we have agreements with working hours that set the conditions for our working conditions and that this also applies to foreigners who are allowed to work in this area. When I ask about it, it's because 12 hours of extra work is quite a lot. I can see an idea in that, as a researcher, you can also have a side role in communicating your research, as was the case in the newspaper stories that were there. It is quite unreasonable to prevent such things. Is it not true, however, that a proposal that provided completely open opportunities for secondary occupations for everyone would be a question of opening up a barn door to all kinds of work, subject to a permit that one gets to work with a particular full-time job but which can develop into anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135214	I just think I have to say that the Left and the Enhedslist in no way see the same thing on this case. We think it makes very good sense that, as a foreigner, you can take part in an unpaid job in, for example. your son's football club as a trainer, or that you can go out and work up to 12 hours a week in something related to your main profession. That is where the rapporteur was a little skewed. The rapporteur made it sound like you could just do whatever you wanted, drive a taxi, or whatever. So it is very clear in the draft law that the secondary job must be linked to one's main job. We thought that was a really, really good idea. This also seemed to the Social Democrats to be a very good idea until the second reading, where they have now diluted it to a very, very small group.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135253	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135308	Thank you, President. As our rapporteur for foreigners cannot be present today, I have promised to say that in this question we are very much in line with the Left when it comes to a deep wonder how a majority in the Folketing can be against making it easier for the people who come to the country to do a service for Danish society and to contribute, who would like to do a further service and would like to contribute further, and to stumble out of them and make it even harder. We simply cannot be in anyone's interest at least not in the interests of Danish society. That is why, in addition to expressing this astonishment and voting against the amendments tabled by the majority, we have tabled a small, humble amendment, No. 8, which is just about helping the tiny group, which has also been very popular in the media, and which I know has a very great practical significance for the country's classical symphony orchestras. It is simply a proposal to include musicians in the group who are allowed to have a secondary job. That is because we have had examples of example. An oboist or violinist in a symphony orchestra who steps in to help a diseased other symphony orchestra may be punished because they go in as a substitute for musicians in that orchestra. Since such orchestras are quite vulnerable to disease, we thought that it might be an area in which, despite the disagreement that is general, we could agree that here we have an interest in reaching out to the minority, but after all a part of the Danes, for whom classical music means a lot. The fact that symphony orchestras throughout the country have the opportunity to live well depends entirely on people coming from abroad and wanting to play in them. So it should just be a small, friendly prayer to the Folketing about, despite the disagreements that are, to reach out to them. It's very, very hard to see who it could bother even in the wildest fantasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135510	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529135517	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye is quoted as saying that we need a strict foreign policy, not a crazy foreign policy. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Mattia Tesfaye in. After all, we have all read about the cases that were before in autumn 2017, and they clearly showed that the rules on secondary employment for foreign workers are simply out of date. We saw both a tax researcher and several musicians who stood up pointing out that the current rules are simply too inflexible. Now the government has put forward a bill which makes the rules more flexible, so that it is no longer necessary to apply for a work permit every time a worker wishes to do secondary work. At the same time, we do not change the rules and requirements that we impose in order to come here as a foreign worker. When the draft law was tabled, there was broad political agreement on this and there was broad political agreement that the rules should be changed precisely because it had become too inflexible. The Social Democratic Party then wanted to exempt agricultural workers and also workers on drilling vessels from the new, somewhat more flexible rules. I simply have to say that it does not make any sense whatsoever in my mind, why exactly agriculture and drilling ships and the foreigners who work there must be punished. It just doesn't make any sense. But since it turns out that it is legally impossible to exempt workers on drilling ships, yes, the Social Democratic Party chooses to vote in favour of a large part of the bill having to fall away, so that only researchers can now have more flexible rules, and that, although it can be said here and there that it will be completely absurd there in the last two years, just like Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned, is given zero residence permits and work permits in relation to employees on drilling ships. For me, what the Social Democrats are into here is simply crazy. I think it is a pity, and I must also say quite frankly that I think it is deeply, deeply unbelievable that we have a social democracy which, in the first place, backs up and stands up in the media and demands that we now have to have more flexible rules, because this has become too inflexible and untimely, but then when we get to the finish line here in the Folketing, yes, then we get off with reasons that simply do not belong anywhere. I can only say that I simply hope that the Social Democratic Party has a very good explanation for the musicians who work for other orchestras, and for the highly paid foreigners who are here on the payroll and who have board posts, and for the feeder who wants to give a hand in the neighboring farm, if it pinchs. I cannot explain it to them, but I look forward very much to a Socialist rapporteur coming up here and explaining this to the rest of the Danish Parliament. Then you can say: Why don't I yell at the Danish People's Party? Because the Danish People's Party is part of this against the government in this field. But it has to be said that the Danish People's Party has always been completely open and honest: here is a point that separates us. We have been open about this all the way through, and that is why I do not believe that there is the least to blame the Danish People's Party for this. I disagree politically with the Danish People's Party, but that must be the case. At least one has been honest with the Social Democrats. Then I note that the Radical Left has put forward a proposal that workers who have a residence permit under the provision on individual qualifications should, on an equal footing with the research team, be covered by more flexible rules for secondary employment. This is a sympathetic proposal, as I would say, among other things. musicians come to the rescue, as has just been said here. Unfortunately, it is not possible to have a legal assessment of the proposal and whether it is in line with international commitments within the short time available to us in relation to the amendment. For this reason alone, the government cannot at this stage support this proposal by the Radical Left, but I can say that we will have a legal assessment of the proposal and, if it is then possible to implement it, I certainly see it as an opportunity to put forward a new legislative proposal on the other side of the summer holiday when the Folketing meets again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140037	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140040	I also took the floor before, but I'm happy to do it again when the minister calls and hold on, where's the attitude in this debate about scolding and lack of honesty? So, at first reading, the Social Democratic Party announced that we could support the bill with an amendment, and when we were concerned about not just supporting the bill as it was, it was because we could understand at 3F that there was a concern that the bill opened up an increased risk of social dumping. So when the Minister says that it makes no sense whatsoever and that she does not have any conceptual apparatus to understand what this is all about on the part of the Social Democratic Party, other than that we behave very badly, I would like to repeat what I said to the rapporteur of the Left, namely that for us this is a quite well-founded fear that the bill opens up an increased risk of social dumping. It is not about punishing the individual or what the minister was getting himself into. This is, in fact, a completely legitimate political issue, which we are attacking and addressing in all possible contexts in this area and therefore also in this area. We've had a long run. Both the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and now the Minister have explained this. So this picture you're trying to draw from the frivolous flak or that it's blowing in the wind is just not right. We have tried to achieve what was the purpose, together with Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten, namely to have it fenced in here in relation to the risk of social dumping. It was not possible to include the offshore industry because of human rights. Then we had to turn around and see what we could do, and that is why I would just like to repeat what I also explained to the rapporteur of the Left, namely that we are fully in line with the way this is going to look at, with the amendment we have tabled. This solves the problems that we also revolved around at first reading and what was the starting point for the media debate that led to the legislative proposal being tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140227	I understand that Mrs Astrid Krag needed much more time to try to explain this away. Excuse me, but it is simply a 100-metre race trying to explain away something that cannot be explained away. Social democracy was extremely concerned about this in the autumn. Now the government has to come up with something, they said, and it just couldn't go fast enough. We then come up with a good proposal and I would just like to say that in the autumn there was not a word about social dumping, 3F, drilling ships or feed masters or anything. No, it came all of a sudden, and I have to promise that then the Social Democratic Party ran away from it, everything the Social Democrats could possibly do. Honestly, I simply have very, very little respect for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140320	There was the rhetoric then at least completely turned up again, but then I think we know the Minister very well. So, look, the concern of social democracy to fight against social dumping has not come suddenly. It is clear, then, that in the autumn, when we discussed some specific cases in the press, which dealt with a very specific researcher who came into contact, we had no opportunity to know that the government was going to table a bill which opened such a wide gate for side-job openings for foreigners in Denmark. We couldn't have known. We had to see what the government presented before we could deal with it. The picture that the government is trying to draw from the fact that there were no of these elements up at first reading is simply wrong, and it can be seen in the simple way that we did not support the draft law unconditionally at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140408	Mrs Astrid Krag will have to correct me if it was not true that the Social Democracy also interfered in the case of the oboeist and the musicians at the time. But I don't know what the explanation is for that now. You don't back that either. In addition, however, I simply fail to understand that the Social Democrats have something completely infuriated hatred of feed masters and agriculture. I haven't, I can just say that. In fact, I think that Danish agriculture contributes a great deal to the Danish economy and creates a great many jobs that the Social Democrats' voters might also benefit greatly from. But I have to promise that it will come in full bloom here, and what a shame it is!
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140511	Thank you, Minister. Well, then, sir. Martin Lidegaard asked for the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140522	I would just like to thank the Minister for his statement. We were a little surprised that there should be any problems with international conventions, but, on the other hand, it must of course be examined. If I heard the Minister correctly, she would go home and study it over the summer holidays and, if possible, she would come back with a legislative proposal, and on that basis we will withdraw the amendment, because of course we would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140541	Thank you. I should like to ask whether anyone would like to accept Amendment No. 8? As this is not the case, it has lapsed. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140603	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 3 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF) on Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7, adopted by a majority (S, DF, EL and SF) or on Amendment No 7. 6, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of DF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140647	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140702	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), Amendment No. Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 3 were adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 or on Amendment No 4 by a majority (the committee with the exception of DF) or by a majority of its members. 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140737	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140752	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140809	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140832	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140857	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529140916	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF), elected by a majority (the other committee), on the division of the bill into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Corporate Tax Act and various other laws]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-6, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and ALT), on Amendment No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8-10, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and ALT)? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Corporate Tax Act and the Tax Tax Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to under A be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I propose that the proposal for a directive referred to in B should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141050	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141105	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 11, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 and 7, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12 and 13, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141449	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141505	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and ALT)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141524	The Minister for Health has informed me that she wishes to accept Amendment No. 9 in the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this proposal? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141553	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 10-12 outside the report by the Minister for Health as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8, Member of the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 13 outside the report by the Minister for Health as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141632	Does anyone wish to speak? This is what Mrs Stine Brix is doing as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529141649	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with a legislative proposal which puts an end to a fundamental principle of our health care, namely the principle that there is no user charge when we visit our general practitioner or go to a hospital. The government proposes that an interpretation fee be introduced when you enter the health care system. All the consultation answers are highly critical of the draft law, and many people are warned that this may mean that there are people who are ill and need medical care but who refrain from going to the doctor for economic reasons, and that will obviously increase the inequality in health. That is why we, the Enhedslisten, are also opposed to the proposal. Nevertheless, we have taken the trouble to formulate a number of amendments in an attempt to rectify some of the worst consequences that the draft law could have. Firstly, we propose that it be registered directly in the law that people with disabilities and parents of sick children or children who come to the doctor himself should be exempted from the fee. The Minister has confirmed that there will be an announcement which will make these exceptions, and we think it is absolutely crucial that these exceptions are provided for in the law, so that they can be read in the legal text, and so that Denmark's international obligations to protect children and people with disabilities are also guaranteed, regardless of which minister is sitting. We are also proposing a number of further exemptions. Let me mention a few of them here, for example. pregnant women who are to visit a midwife and doctor during their pregnancy for the sake of the unborn child are also exempted from an interpretation fee. A normal pregnancy in the Danish health care system involves visiting a doctor or midwife or coming to a scan about ten times. A fee on each such contact will simply prevent women who have a poor economy from going to necessary medical and midwife visits, potentially to the detriment of a child who has not yet been born. We are also suggesting that special risks, for example. If women are subject to social control or to trade in women, an exception to the interpretation fee shall be granted. If you do not have your own economy or if you do not have control over your own economy, which we know is a frequently used method of social control, then an interpretation fee will be a very, very big barrier to seeking necessary medical care. We are also proposing an exception for victims of violence, victims of rape and other forms of abuse where treatment in the health service is needed subsequently or need to visit the health service in order to obtain evidence of the damage caused by the abuse. Then we also propose an exception for people who need to be treated for infectious diseases. be measles with which we have increasing problems here in Denmark, or tuberculosis or that people who are in the target group for current vaccination programmes to prevent infectious diseases are also exempted. All in all, it is a series of exceptions that will reduce the health damage that an interpretation fee in health care will entail. Either way, it is the view of the Enhedslisten that the interpreting fee is harmful, that it will increase inequalities in health and that it throws an important principle of free access to medical care overboard, and therefore we do not support the final legislative proposal, although we hope that we can gather support for some improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142019	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142030	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote shall be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 78 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote shall be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142549	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142617	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142633	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142651	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142724	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142738	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour of 21 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142826	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142842	As you know, there is no minister in this area; it is the responsibility of the Folketing. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal. The debate is open. And I give the floor to Mrs Christine Antorini as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Those who do not want to stay here leave the Chamber in good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529142918	Thank you for the floor. At the same time, I would like to thank all parties who have contributed very much to this work. A working group has been set up under the Bureau, which has been named the Antorini-Skaarup Working Group, because I have had the pleasure of chairing the working group and Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party of being Vice-President. The Group expresses the deepest desire of both the Bureau and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the parties in it, which sees an important task in constantly discussing how we can improve our working methods, how we can improve political dialogue, how we can create more openness, also for the many citizens who, fortunately, are interested in the development of democracy, have concrete proposals and would like to keep up with the debate and thus have a more lively overall debate. But it is also a working group that has looked at whether there are some balances that are not of an evil will, but maybe just slowly has shifted a little wrong, so that some power has moved further away from the Folketing. This applies, among other things, to: It may make sense that there is an authorisation, so it is the Minister himself who can decide if it is a matter of minor matters and where it would not be reasonable for the Folketing to change the entire legislation each time because of minor matters. But it also seems that there are more and more ministerial powers in a number of more substantial areas, and that means that a minister can carry out experiments or other things that are not in line with the majority in the Folketing. We agree on this point here in the Folketing is a good idea to examine further why money has also been set aside for a research-based study of this problem: what has been the development? Is there a difference in the various committees? And is this something that we can pay more attention to, so that more power comes back to the Folketing again? But there are a number of other proposals. Some of them may seem somewhat like something in the petty section, but the sum of them is thus helping to improve the democratic debate. And I just want to mention a few of them. There are proposals on how the forms of debate can be improved by having, when we have what is called Wednesday's Question Time, when you can call a minister for an oral debate, as well as having a questioner, so that if there is something that fills and is topical, there is a possibility that more people can enter the debate immediately. There are also proposals that, when we have what is called Question Time with the Prime Minister, where the various party leaders can ask questions to the Prime Minister, it might be an idea to have the same opportunity in the committees and it will be introduced as an attempt so that the committees can call an open Question Time with their minister. And then we see from the experience of it whether it can also create a more lively debate in the various specialist committees. It may also be a way for parties that are perhaps not so often part of wider conciliation circles to have an ongoing opportunity to have a dialogue with the Minister, because it is a real dilemma if you are not part of a conciliation circle. Of course, there are the normal tools, which may be to ask committee questions and other matters, but the direct dialogue, both with the Minister and the others who sit in a committee, will be an experiment. We will also be looking at how we can have a more lively debate in this Chamber. This applies, among other things, when there are questions which open up the possibility of having a dialogue with the Minister at the beginning and not just at the end. And that is, in terms of how we are going to sit, and then you can ask whether this is something we need to spend time on here, but the fact that we are actually sitting close to each other and using each other as part of that debate is also something that makes a dynamic and a nerve come, which is important not only for us as politicians, but also for those citizens who want to follow what we really are concerned with and where the political differences are and, of course, what can hopefully come together in the end. We have had discussions on how to tighten up when there are citizens in what are called deputies. Here, too, it is just a call to ourselves as members of parliament that it is important, when we sit in committees, to give priority when citizens come. There are citizens who travel very far and they have 15 minutes to make their business, and this is actually an opportunity for important matters to be passed on to a minister or for a committee to be able to act in different ways. Of course, we must also pay attention to this and give it the highest priority. There have also been some issues which have not been taken into account because there has been no agreement. Fortunately, that is quite a few, and that is also why I hope that the main impression that remains is that there is a wide range of parties saying: this will improve working methods. And it is, moreover, forms of work that, if we adopt this, will enter into force when the Folketing opens this October 2018. However, one of the two areas where there has been no majority has been a desire in the working group to draw more attention to the expertise of ministerial officials. There are really, really talented officials who know a great deal down to the detail of various proposals, and that expertise would be nice if the Members of Parliament could draw on hearings and committees, but today it is the case that it requires the Minister to be present too. That is what we want to see. We hope that in the long term we will be able to make it possible for a minister to say: it is okay for this skilled professional to be able to take part in a hearing. But it must of course also be the case that there is a protection for the official if the minister is not present, so the official can say: no, I do not think so here, because there may be a risk that I will be put in a situation where I have to deal politically with something. And, of course, civil servants shouldn't. So we think that we have tried to devise some models where we use the knowledge that is, broader in relation to the Folketing, while protecting the officials so that they are not subjected to political pressure, what they should not. After all, it is a minister who has to answer for the matter. However, after consultation with the Prime Minister of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, there was no support from the Prime Minister to implement it now, and it is the Prime Minister's prerogative to be able to decide this here. But, of course, we have discussed it in the Social Democratic Party, because it may be that there will be a change of government at some point, and we will be very open to opening up the possibility of more use being made of officials, even if the Minister is not present. The second wish, which unfortunately has not been supported either, but which I hope we in the working group can continue to work on, concerns something that the whole world and everyone is concerned with discussing, namely how there can be an increase in competence for all groups of employees. There is also the possibility of increased competence as a member of parliament, but it is in relatively few areas. We have a good language service and you can become more skilled in English, French and German. There are some good opportunities to learn how to use IT, i.e. the technologies we use in here. But that's just like what's there. And there is a desire that, as a member of parliament, one can also qualify for some of the disciplines that are important to have in the toolbox, which makes us more skilled as members of parliament. There is not a majority for that now, but I hope that this is something that we can continue to discuss, because it is important that we, as Members of Parliament, should also be able to continue to qualify in relation to the agendas that are relevant in terms of being skilled in the crafts of a parliamentarian. In those words, I would just like to thank you again for your cooperation. It's been a pleasure. These are, in fact, many good proposals that will vitalise the work in here and I look forward to seeing how this will be achieved in the autumn. And I hope that both many committees and ministers would like to see the experiments that will be opened up with the proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529143701	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then I will see if there are any other rapporteurs who would like to speak on this matter. Mrs. Karen Ellemann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529143717	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Left, it is appropriate to thank the Antorini-Skaarup working group and all the active forces that have been working on this work, because an incredible amount of time and effort have been spent on really looking at our working methods. That's good, and thank you so much for the work. Now we are here with the big report with all the recommendations on what adjustments we are now agreeing on. These are good, sensible measures, and yes, it is also quite true that there have been individual measures on which we have not been able to reach agreement. However, these are sensible proposals and all of them, with the aim of ensuring that everything else is equal, that we have a constructive form of debate which also helps to produce positive results in our country. We are now in the centenary of the day after the 100th anniversary and are going to talk about the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and the fine book we received yesterday had to admit with shame that the author is already out of date, because it shows that the Rules have been amended 42 times, and now we are entering the 43rd time. Just with those words: we support, and I should welcome from the Conservative People's Party and say the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529143836	Then the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529143841	Thank you. It may be said that it has been a rather long affair to draw up proposals for a new Rules of Procedure, but that this does not mean that we are making revolutionary changes, but rather minor adjustments to the Rules of Procedure. We in the Enhedslist think it is a good thing that we are constantly debating our forms of work and business, especially if it can provide an opportunity to improve the framework for the way we discuss politics with each other, and to create greater openness and quality in the legislative process. For Enhedslisten, it is especially important that there is plenty of time and good opportunities for interested organisations, associations and citizens in general to influence the legislative process. That is why I would like to say that we are generally critical of emergency procedures where derogations from the normal consultation procedure are granted, and we therefore think it is good that a little more attention should be paid to this problem, so that we get an annual report to explain in detail where the general rules of procedure have not been applied. We also think that it is a bad idea that there should be too much joint proposals which make legislative proposals both more incalculable and make it more difficult to agree to legislative initiatives in one area, because they are linked to proposals in quite different areas, although there is no existing logic between them. And we think it is a good thing that there is also agreement here that this should be avoided as far as possible. And we think that new forms of meeting are fine and that we are carrying out various experiments, as Mrs Christine Antorini has already mentioned. When I take the floor, I would also like to say that there are areas where we have been somewhat hesitant in the Enhedslisten. One has been in relation to the advance of the deadlines for tabling motions for resolutions, where we think it would have been good if there had been a similar provision in relation to the government's timetable for tabling legislative proposals. I would also like to make a few comments on the changes that are being made to the consultations. As far as changes to the framework for consultation are concerned, it has been important for us that no changes were made to the Rules of Procedure which in any way limit the possibilities of using the consultations to get to the bottom of cases where there is a need for very good time to question the ministers. Therefore, I would like to stress here that our agreement to the indicative timetables for the consultations is on the clear assumption that the indicative guidelines may be waived if the author so wishes. In this context, we note that there is a common awareness that both the committees and the consultation issues are different, and that the proposal specifically mentions that, in consultation with, for example, the European Parliament has been consulted. The duration of 6-7 hours should be paused. When I mention it, it is not because we in the Enhedslisten think that long consultation in itself has a quality. We do not think so at all, but we think it is really important, and that is also why I have come to stress that where the need is there, the opportunity must also be present. With those comments, the Enhedslisten can agree with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to welcome the colleagues of the SF who cannot be here and say that they agree accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529144224	Thank you. Are there any other rapporteurs who would like to speak? There isn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529144241	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529144315	Thank you for that, President. We must start to deal with a view through social democratic spectacles very important legislative proposal that has the main objective of updating, first and foremost, the provisions of our criminal code on what are called violations of peace and honour, so that we can ensure that the law is up to date and, above all, can keep pace with technological developments. That's good. And I can already announce that the Social Democratic Party fully supports the bill. There is no doubt that technological development offers unparalleled opportunities; it makes us more flexible, it makes us more independent of time and place, but the same opportunities also open up new types of abuse and also abuses. Technological development has, of course, led to greater demands on what can be called digital formation. There is no doubt that with what you see happening in the digital universe, among other things. in the media, is the need to create a debate and a dialogue on what is acceptable and what is not. We think this bill should also contribute to that. Because it's hard to figure out what you can and what you can't do, because everyone is in a way new in the digital age. No one can tell us how we should do it, but we should have some pointers about how we should behave in the digital world, just as we do about how we behave in the physical world. New phenomena are constantly appearing, which can have very major consequences; most recently we have had stories of revenge porn, continuously we have stories of unjustified surveillance, other stories also pour into sharing pictures and videos without consent and not least digital bullying. These are all phenomena which are unpleasant to them, and in no way acceptable. That is why this is a whole new arena that we are entering into in these years without clear and established rules, they could at least be more up to date, and that is what we think is good about this bill, that is, that a new provision is being made in the penal code on unjustified monitoring of a person's movements by means of a GPS or other device; that is something that the Social Democrats themselves have asked for. It cannot be the case that you are allowed to use GPS to unduly monitor people without them knowing it. In other words, for ordinary people it seems quite absurd, but nevertheless there has been a need to tighten up the legislation here. We also think it is quite reasonable, as the draft law also points out, and where we are talking about the domain of the media, that if the name and minutes ban imposed in the courtroom is broken, the penalty will now be considerably increased by fivefold. We also think it is reasonable that, not least on the basis of the cases we have seen and heard about in the media, there should be an increase in the level of reimbursement, that is to say, of the level of what those who suffer this damage get and can get in compensation. If the ban on names and minutes is broken and there has been a defamation in this respect, what can they get in compensation? Yeah, it's tripled now. We think it is important that, in general, this bill focuses on the media and the responsibility of those in charge in this context. There is no doubt that this, particularly in the media, has already created a little debate, but I hope that the media are also aware that this is something we need to have a better grasp of. There is, and must be, no doubt that it should not be worth wondering whether we can cross the line of violations of peace and honour, including the media, and that is why we need to tighten up sanctions in these areas. Social democracy therefore supports the bill. We think there is a need for legislation here to be brought into the digital age, and we hope that we can have a good debate in the future on what kind of behaviour we need in the digital world. This applies to us as users, as well as to the media, which among other things. must assume responsibility for what conduct it is, which also takes place under their auspices. So with these words, the Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529144742	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529144749	Thank you. It is, of course, a big proposal that the government has put forward in this round and which is based on a thorough work by the Criminal Law Council, which has made a number of recommendations and proposals which are part of this proposal. I think it is in many ways a positive proposal that has been put forward by the government. You hit hard on the unjustified use of GPS, sharpen the opportunities for you to come after people who in this way expose others to abuse in relation to their right to privacy. We take a very, very positive view that the government has come for this case. This is something that has previously been the focus of a few cases in the media. So it is very positive that the government has chosen to include it in the proposal. It is also suggested that a large number of fines should be looked through on the penalty front when it comes to the violation of peace and honour. I should like to take particular note of the part relating to editors responsible, who are, after all, calling for the level of fines to be increased fivefold. It should not be a secret that we hope that this will give a clear behavior-regulating signal, so as to ensure that it will not be a sport to go straight to the limit of what can be allowed in terms of people's privacy, in terms of violating people in the media. We clearly hope that it will be important, at least, to increase the fine fivefold when it comes to breaches of name bans and minutes bans, so that the penalty rate for first-time offences will be about 25 000 kroner. and 50,000 kroner. for second-time cases. So this is a very serious violation, so it is extremely positive that it should be included in any case, just as it is positive that we will look at the tort allowance, which currently stands at between 10,000 kr. and 100,000 kroner. The government then proposes tripled, but at the same time also projected, so the amount evolves and not just freezes in 2018 level. It's kind of fine. Then there are some thoughts in relation to deletion of pictures and statements. The Penal Code does not allow it today, and that is one of the things you want to put into law. That is also one of the things we can fully support and recommend. As I said, this is a very big proposal. That is also why I really think it is worth commending that the government has put it forward now. Then we can have time to discuss it over the summer, and then, of course, I expect the Minister to discuss some coffee and some officials that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs can ask some questions and that we can uncover what might be before we can proceed with the proposal. In any case, we look very favourably and positively at the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145053	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145102	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the positive comments on the bill, which has already fallen from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. The aim of the bill is, in short, to make life easier for the victims who are victims of the violation of peace and honour, and to make life harder for the perpetrators, who are typically mass media, but who may also be others who express themselves, for example, on social media. The draft law is indeed based on a report by the Criminal Law Council, but it is also based on a resolution tabled in the 2014-2015 session. It was put forward by myself and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen I think it is quite important that we get credit for it, because a great many of the proposals contained in the draft law are one to the same as those contained in the motion for a resolution. In Herning, a young girl was killed, and the police charged someone with the murder. The extra magazine found occasion to make a front page where the person's first name was mentioned, and after that it said: Aimed for the murder of Mary; in capital letters it said: "Shy and girl's cloud; and in a little smaller letters it said: "She was strangled with her socks." And then there was a big picture of the person. I do not think there is any idea how hard it is to first be in custody completely unjustified because the poor man from Herning had absolutely nothing to do with the killing and then should also suffer the torment, it is to see himself exhibited on the front page of one of the country's major newspapers. What happened in the case in question was that the man was compensated for unjustified detention, but he never went ahead with the case, because the system is today arranged so that if you want to sue a media, you have to go out and assume a lawyer yourself. One is, if I may say so, on one's own, and so the person concerned did not have a surplus for that. It was different for the two sailors Eddy and Søren, who for a long time were also shown their privacy in the Extra Magazine and pictures of them were shown in humiliating situations. They had a trade union in their backs and therefore had the opportunity to sue the media in question, but if they had not, they would have been placed in the same way as the innocent man from Herning. They are also known people, who are indeed known, but above all they are human beings, and all people who are also known people have the right to some protection of their privacy. There are cases where the media are lurking at the hospital to reveal whether someone is suffering from a serious illness, or to see if someone is pregnant it is usually a happy event, but you usually want to be the one who brings the news and not that it should be left to a magazine or a morning newspaper. So in all these types of cases we want to make it easier for those who are being violated, among other things. to sue by giving the possibility that, in the most serious cases, you can go to the police and do not have to take up a lawyer yourself. If there is a breach of the criminal code's provisions on defamation and defamation, we must have more in compensation. We are talking about a threefold increase in the level of compensation, and the media in question must be fined three times as high as today and five times as high if it is the editor. Then there is also a substantial increase in the level of fines for infringement of name bans. It is the case today that if you violate a name ban, you get a fine of 5,000 kroner, and that is what we want five times as much as 25,000 kroner. Finally, it is also part of the legislative proposal that the violations today, because of the Internet, live on. Well, in the old days fish were wrapped in the paper the day after it got on the street, but the situation today is a whole different newspaper articles live on the Internet. When you go in and google a person, these insulting articles come out. There, the bill makes it a duty of the media that has brought history, also to ensure that the articles and pictures are removed from the Internet again. So, all in all, there are a great many good initiatives in the legislative proposal which, overall, will make it more likely that those who are hanged out for something they have not done or who have violated their privacy, so that they will have a greater likelihood of justice being done and that they will get a compensation that gives a patch on the wound that is bigger than the patch you are getting today, and hopefully this will also have a deterrent or preventive effect on typical mass media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145627	There are no questions, and we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Welcome back to Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145654	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. Like the previous rapporteurs, I agree that this area is an area that has long needed a what should we call modernisation, and that is why we see very positively in the Enhedslisten that this is going to happen now. Having said that, this is also a sensitive area, because just as the right to privacy must be protected, and just as much as we must have a protection against defamation, we must not violate freedom of expression or the press. It is by no means now that more attention needs to be paid to freedom of expression or to freedom of the media, because we need the fourth state power to control those in power. That is why it is very important that we find a balance, and that is exactly what the Criminal Law Council has done in their report on which this bill is based. We are, in principle, in favour of the draft law, but first we need to look at all the consultation answers to make sure that the balance has been maintained. As I understand it, the government has wanted to present this proposal now for discussion in the Chamber today and then again in the next session, and that is why I would just like to start by giving a positive statement and looking forward to the committee reading and to seeing the answers to the hearings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145825	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. It's the heat that's affecting us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529145852	Thank you. A free press must have a broad framework for unfolding. That's the basic sentence. This must and must be the case in a free society. At the same time, it is absolutely fundamental in a free society that people cannot just have their privacy violated without having consequences for those who do so, and we cannot, of course, have a society where it is commercially worth bringing false stories about other people or violating their privacy. A few years ago, when Parliament debated a motion for a resolution to tighten up the penalties for violations of peace and honour, the starting point of the Liberal Alliance was that already at that time there was no right to bring false stories about others and that there was no right to violate other people's privacy. That's what the law was already like. But when there are violations, there must be something wrong, and then there must be a need for someone to change something, and it is therefore gratifying that with this bill we are setting in where there is a need. It makes sense to tighten sanctions against media and private individuals who violate privacy by spreading insulting information to the public; it makes sense for the proposal to provide better protection for victims, by making it easier and simpler to remove offensive information from the Internet, and by allowing judges to impose on the offending person or other persons who may have access to material to remove the infringing material from the Internet; it makes sense to provide better conditions for victims, by allowing the prosecution to bring cases at the request of the injured person; it makes sense for the reimbursement to be increased so that financial compensation is increased; and it makes sense for unjustified monitoring of a person using GPS or similar technology to be criminalised so that we protect people against surveillance. All in all, this is a sensible legislative proposal and we support the initiatives that increase respect for privacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150107	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150116	Thank you. It's Bill L 240 that we're dealing with, and with this bill, the government wants to strengthen and modernise the protection of individuals' privacy against violations of peace and honour. The bill can well be said to have its origins in the famous SE and HØr case, where several well-known Danes had their privacy seriously violated. The bill hasn't been in consultation yet. I understand this is such an initial round about it, and then it will be retabled after the summer break. That is why it has not been consulted and we have not had a hearing yet. Therefore, allow me to say that we have not taken a final position, and that is because, as a fundamental principle, we really want to hear the people and organisations affected by the draft law in general. Among other things: The media industry, which is affected by this, would also like to see consultation responses from. But having said that, I would like to say that we are immediately in favour of this bill. Firstly, it is an extremely well-drafted bill, which is based largely on the report by the Criminal Court on the violation of peace and honour, and secondly, we agree with the Ministry that there is a need for strengthening and modernising the provisions of the Penal Code on the violation of peace and privacy, in particular with a view to increasing the digitisation of our society. The Internet has democratized our society. Thus, more people than ever before have the opportunity to speak, but it also has a side of battle. The damage is even greater now when it comes to violations of peace and honour on the Internet. Violations can spread rapidly like a wildfire, and it can be virtually completely impossible to remove the violations. That is why we are particularly pleased with the part of the bill which deals with the obligation to delete opinions, messages or pictures. In relation to the media sector, the draft law contains a number of legislative amendments which are not part of the report of the Criminal Code Council. This concerns, among other things: on the abolition of minutes or names in private criminal proceedings and the tightening up of penalties for the violation of the ban and the increase in compensation in cases of violations of peace and honour, which must be particularly high for players in the media sector, and, finally, the extension of the media liability law, so that media support in the future is linked to the media liability law and thus the Press Board and the press ethics rules. At first sight, it is also legislative changes that we can support. It makes sense that the recipients of media support should also be subject to the Press Board and the press ethics rules. But again: Here we would like to see the media industry's comments on the bill. So, on the whole, we are in favour of the draft law and look forward to seeing the hearings and discussing it again after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150408	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150416	Thank you. This is a long-awaited proposal, because there is no doubt that our rules in this area have not at all reflected the reality in which we live and, above all, have not given the victims of violations of honour and peace the protection that we as a society owe them. However, no evil word about the waiting period or the somewhat unusual process of presenting now and then re-submission after the summer holidays, for in return the draft law is based on thorough work, not least the report by the Criminal Code Council, and also on a motion for a resolution, as has been mentioned here. It also gives us a good opportunity to hear the stakeholders what they think and have of input to the bill before it is retabled when the Danish Parliament meets again in October. So we're really happy about that. We think it is a very good and sensible process. Perhaps we would have liked a similar process to be used in other areas of justice, but at least we welcome it here. We welcome virtually all parts of the proposal, and I would like to mention some of them: the introduction of conditional public charges of the most serious defamation means that society is standing next to the victim and helping, where it has stood very alone today even in situations that have been very violent and where there has been very cross-border abuse and very unequal power relations. But when I first read the speech, I was a tiny bit worried that it opened up a little too many processes, so that we could pull each other in court, also on the basis of the somewhat harsh public debate we have and we probably always have. Of course, I do not like to be called a traitor every other day, but I also think it would be a little strange if I were to bring people to justice for it. But as I understand it, these are the most serious violations of peace and honour, not the nicknames we sometimes call each other, and we can, of course, practice not doing so. The aim here is not to start pulling each other into court to participate in the public debate, but it is that we can fall victim to much, very violent slander, violent libel to the rescue and that society can side with them. So we can certainly support that. We also think it is very sensible that we should now allow the possibility of the removal, following a judgment, of defamatory material. There have been cases recently, when the question was that yes, there had now been a judgment, but that material was still freely available, and what was to happen to it? There is, after all, a concrete answer to what is then to be done. That's very good and sensible. It is also made clear that it is possible to ban names and minutes in private criminal proceedings. We also welcome the significant increases in the penalties for violations of peace and honour and violations of minutes, and also the increase in compensation for torture. We also think that this is very sensible and quite proportional to the abuse of this kind of honour and peace violation. Finally, we are also very pleased with what is being proposed in the media field. This is something we have been talking about for several years, and I know that it has been really difficult to achieve legally, that is to say that media that receive media support must be covered by the media liability law and registered with the Press Board. I cannot fully understand whether that is what the wording says, namely that they will be included in the special liability system of the Media Liability Act. Whether it is the Press Office or something else it is nodded to be so, it certainly sounds very reasonable and is something we have been calling for, and we are very pleased that the government has also included it in its proposal. So, all in all, we are very positive and, of course, we look forward to hearing what the stakeholders in this area have to say. Of course, it is also extremely important when it comes to imposing such heavy fines on the media, because otherwise we are very much in favour of the free press, but I think it is quite fair and fair here. But, of course, I am looking forward to hearing what the media have to say about the question of whether there are any concerns about it. So we are very positive about the proposal, and we are looking forward to the debate with the stakeholders and, incidentally, also in the Folketing, and have a very good feeling that in this area, which is so important an area and involves us all, we can actually agree on something that is rather • I do not want to say far-reaching, because it is so necessary and in fact only makes the legislation more up-to-date • but it is something that is still so profound that it is something that we may agree on with a very broad majority in the Folketing. We think that this will be very beautiful and we certainly think that we should be part of that majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150921	Thank you, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, and welcome to Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529150929	The Folketing lags behind developments both in the traditional media and in the new or newer social media. It is good that we are now in the process of modernising the law, and when we do so, we need to strike a sharp balance between, for example, defamation and freedom of expression, while at the same time seeing that digitalisation presents us with a series of new, violent challenges. The bill, as we see it, is an attempt to keep up with that development. SF is generally favourable to the draft law, but of course it will not take a final position until the proposal is retabled in the next session. We do so on the basis that everyone has the right to a private life. But then there are some media that interpret such that everyone has the right to the privacy of others. In this respect, we think it is a good thing that it is proposed to increase the compensation. I also think that it is only right and proper for media support to be linked to the fact that responsibility is also transferred to the publishers. Breaks of minutes and name bans today cost virtually nothing. This may mean that some editors make such an economic calculation of breaches of the law against the profits they can make by breaking it. Hopefully, an increase in fines will make those responsible think twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529151103	Thank you, sir. Hønge, and welcome to sir. Nase Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529151108	Thank you. It can have far-reaching consequences when some share incorrect information, accusations, information, articles etc., which were not actually intended for the public. That is why it has always been illegal to make such peace- and defamatory statements and publications. Sharing that kind of thing doesn't make it any less wrong when it goes on Facebook and the Internet in general. In fact, one can argue that this is even more problematic, as what is published online can quickly spread around the world, and it can be very, very difficult to get rid of it. It is extremely difficult to clean up the web once things have been published there. In the Conservative People's Party, we are convinced that respect for privacy is a fundamental condition for being able to live a safe life. The incredible technological developments that we have seen in recent years should not call this condition into question. That is why it is important that our legislation is up to date. We will not tolerate violations of privacy. The punishment must be matched by the crime, and we must first and foremost help the victims of violations. The draft law, which is being discussed today, tightens the penalty for peace- and defamatory statements, i.e. section 264. The average fine is currently 5,000 kroner. It proposes that the government triple, regardless of who committed the offence, journalists as well as individuals. For editors in chief, it is proposed to multiply the penalty fivefold. The proposal also contains a number of initiatives to help protect the victim. Here we want to triple the compensation in these cases. The judge shall be given the opportunity to require media and publishers on the Internet to delete material relating to a case of peace and defamation. I think that's an excellent element of this bill. I myself have experienced being accused of something that was wrong, and even though I was later cleared and acquitted, you can still find articles with the lying accusations online. So ordering publishers to clean up untruths on the Internet is, in my view, excellent. In addition, the proposal provides for criminalisation of unjustified monitoring by means of GPS. It is also an example of how the legislation is updated to be more up-to-date. We want to protect privacy. All Danes must be able to live their lives in security and certainty that their private images are not shared online or that false accusations are spread against them. The Internet has accelerated many important processes in our society for the good of all, but it has also accelerated the rate at which illegal content can be spread. That is why it is important that the legislation is up to date. We in the Conservative People's Party are very happy with this bill and look forward to its further consideration in this and next Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529151449	Thank you very much, sir. Nas Khader, and welcome to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529151458	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception this proposal has received in this Chamber. I think we can all imagine how unpleasant it must be to end up on the front page of a national newspaper with information about our privacy that we would like to keep to ourselves, or with an accusation that we should have done something criminal. Something similar applies to Facebook listings, which are rapidly flourishing among people across the country. It goes without saying that this is something most people would like to be left out of. It is my opinion that all Danes should be able to live safely and expect respect for their privacy. The digitalisation of recent decades means that information via the Internet is spreading very quickly so that the whole population can potentially get to know them in a very short time. At the same time, it may be difficult and in some cases almost impossible to have the data deleted again. If e.g. The media, through articles on their websites or others on the Internet, disclose information about others' private relationships or make defamatory accusations, can therefore violate a person's privacy very, very seriously, and more seriously than before. Fortunately, the risk of being on the front page of a national newspaper is not great, but when it happens, and when it is a criminal violation of privacy, the consequences for the perpetrator are simply not the result of the consequences for the victim. There is therefore a need, on the one hand, to tighten up the consequences of committing violations of peace and honour and, on the other hand, to help the victims of the violations. This is also the reason why it is part of the government base that the government will propose a significantly tougher course towards media that violates privacy or brings defamatory accusations. At the same time, we have received a report from the Criminal Code Council on violations of peace and honour, in which the Council, among other things, took part. in the light of technological developments, propose changes to the rules on privacy violations. The proposal we are debating today follows up and aims to strengthen respect for privacy and increase protection against being hung out on social media and in the mass media. First of all, with the bill, the government wants to tighten the penalty for violating citizens' privacy. The penalty today does not measure up to the extent of the damage, when information on private relationships or images has been disseminated throughout the population. It must not be the case that the media can ultimately make money by violating citizens' rights to privacy. The average penalty for fines for violations of peace and honour is currently up to DKK 5 000, and there is in no way a level that reflects the violation of the offence or the benefit that illegal information may have for the medium. The level is far too low. This also applies, even though journalists and, in particular, editors in chief are in some cases fined a little higher. It is therefore proposed that the penalty be tripled for violating the penal code on violations of peace and honour. This is generally the case, regardless of who committed the infringement. This means that this applies not only to journalists, but also to individuals who violate some by transmitting information on social media. For editors-in-chief, who have a special responsibility to ensure that the media do not violate privacy, the penalty is proposed fivefold. The penalty for infringement of name bans is also fivefold, regardless of who committed the infringement. Secondly, with the bill, the government will ensure better protection for victims who have been subjected to an infringement. The draft law therefore contains five initiatives on it. The initiatives include the proposal for a threefold increase in the level of compensation for torture in the event of violations of peace and honour. This will mean that the victims will receive financial compensation that better reflects the violation they have been subjected to. At the same time, the government wants it to be easier and simpler for victims to remove the insulting information from the Internet. It is therefore proposed that judges be given the opportunity to require the person who has violated someone else to delete the offending material from the Internet. If others have access to the material on the Internet, they may be required to delete it. Another initiative aimed at ensuring better protection for victims is that, at the request of the victim, the prosecution should have access to cases of serious defamation. Nowadays, you have to conduct the case yourself and possibly pay the costs. The bill also contains a number of other proposals. There are, among other things: a criminalisation of unauthorised monitoring of a person's movements by means of GPS or other similar apparatus. Digital development has created a need for criminal law to provide protection against such surveillance. It is also a proposal that is involved in the fight against psychological violence. The crisis centres see examples of the use of GPS, such as: may be placed in the children's teddy bears to track people hiding in a shelter. Apart from that proposal, the draft law does not essentially change what is a violation of privacy, but we change the sanctions if there is an infringement and then we help the victims. That is what is important to me: that we can take these measures without restricting freedom of expression. The government wants a broad and open debate on the bill both in the Folketing and in the public, and that is why the bill has been put before Parliament in this session to kick-start the debate, and after today's debate the bill may be amended, and then it will be sent in public consultation. And after the hearing, the bill will be submitted to the Folketing again in October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529152040	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529152104	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 May 2018. Mrs Liselot Blixt has the floor for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529152130	Thank you very much. After all, I have allowed myself to make a request to the Minister of Justice I say allowed because I am not normally on the committee in question, where the minister is Minister because I have received some inquiries, among other things. from some people in my circle of acquaintances, and because you have seen in the region that in accidents there have been people standing and filming, taking pictures, putting them out on Facebook without worrying about who they are taking pictures of. A lot of people have been really upset about it, and I think we're at a time when we're going to have to look at how we're gonna talk about what you're using your camera for, which everyone's already got at hand because it's on your phone. That is why we have put the question to the Minister of Justice about what the government is going to do to prevent these things. What is it we can do to prevent you from publishing pictures, not filming? How can we ensure that nothing is published until at least relatives have been informed instead of having to find it online? Because that's where you can see a lot of these accidents. How do we prevent the fact that there are Facebook groups that promise chocolate to the first ones who come with a picture of an accident, and that in this way you get the worst up in people and make them say: I want this chocolate, so I can be the first one to tipped off an accident and send some good pictures, so is what I do? I think it's something we all have to take up and get widespread that this is forbidden. But how do we ensure that it can also be judged? How can we ensure that we are addressed, that this is not something we do; that there is ordinary pli and ordinary empathy towards the people involved? There are some relatives out there who don't know what happened when they see those pictures. That is the reason why I put the question, and I look forward to hearing what the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529152356	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Justice to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529152403	As I see it, the heart of the debate that the questioner raises with this question, digital education or digital culture and, more generally, respect for our fellow citizens. Fortunately, most of us know how to behave and treat other people. But we must also be honest and say, as the questioner says, that the digital age and the spread of social media give us some new challenges that we need to address. I fully agree with the questioner that it is unethical and totally unacceptable when citizens take pictures of or film accidents involving injured or dead people and post the pictures on the Internet. I assume that we all agree on personal responsibility and our obligation to use social media wisely in situations where some have been injured. I think that those who are tempted to put such pictures on the Internet should try to put themselves in the place of the injured or imagine that it was their mother, father, spouse or child who had died or been injured. Something else is what the legislation in this area says. It could also be a criminal offence. If a person publishes an image on the Internet of e.g. a victim of a road accident, it could be a violation of section 264 of the Criminal Code. The disclosure of communications or pictures relating to someone else's private situation or other pictures of the person concerned is therefore punishable by law in circumstances which are manifestly outside the public domain. This also applies to dead people. Of course, if the person depicted gives consent to the transfer, the act is not punishable. As an example of how the provision has been applied, a weekly magazine has been convicted of having brought a photo of a man lying on a stretcher after he had just died in a drowning accident. The weekly magazine was also convicted of having brought photos of the dead husband's wife, who looked beyond the waves while searching for her husband. The pictures of the wife were accompanied by statements about her reactions during the search. In order to ensure that it has consequences when you publish images and films from sites of accident on the Internet without the consent of those concerned, the law requires that the offended person of course report the matter to the police before the police can start the investigation. The reason for this is that, as a starting point, the injured person should be spared the prosecution if he or she does not wish to do so. These will, of course, be pictures of private matters which may be further exposed in criminal proceedings. If a person publishes recordings or pictures of identifiable persons from an accident site without consent, e.g. a picture of a person who has broken a leg in a road accident, it may also constitute a breach of data protection rules. When we talk about mass media, their content and actions must be in line with good press practice. In particular, the rules on good press practice provide that, where appropriate, the media may not publish pictures of identifiable persons or license plates in connection with accidents. As I have just explained, there are already provisions that can be brought into play depending on the specific circumstances. Having said that, we must necessarily relate to the fact that we live in a modern digital world, and the Internet makes privacy violations often more serious than they were a few years ago, because a violation can spread very far and very quickly and can almost be impossible to get erased again. Therefore, there is a need for stronger and more up-to-date protection of the individual's privacy. That is precisely the bill we have just discussed, L 240, an expression of. After all, this bill proposes a threefold increase in the penalty for violations of the provisions of the criminal code on violations of peace, among other things. I would also like to mention that, with the new Data Protection Act, the government has tightened the penalties against the previous Personal Data Act. I think it is important to have a debate on this subject, both here in the Folketing, in the wider public and not least around the dinner table at home in the families. The police are aware of the challenges of inappropriate behaviour in which people take pictures of accident situations. The police have announced that they are focusing on how best to meet the challenge when they move out to an accident. In the event of a major motorway accident in March, the police used Twitter to alert drivers near the accident to the need to provide space for rescue vehicles. At the same time, the police called for people not to share photos of the injured on the Internet. There is therefore already attention to the problem, but there is a need for further information. The National Police will therefore come up later today with an information initiative, let us just call it a moral song that will help to raise citizens' awareness of their behaviour in the event of accidents and make them think more about the consequences of their behaviour in such situations. At the same time, the National Police will generally provide guidance on when the transmission of images and films of other persons may be punishable. Then, of course, I expect the police and prosecutors to take advantage of the legal means of prosecuting infringements of the law. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to stress once again that we all have a personal responsibility to ensure that in accident situations we respect those involved and their relatives. The digital age presents some new challenges that we need to be aware of. Unfortunately, we have seen some sad examples of people's behaviour in accident situations where they have taken pictures or videos of the cars or people involved. With both punishments, a debate on the subject in public space and around the dinner table at home, and an information effort on the part of the police, we can hopefully reverse this sad trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529153028	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we start the debate and, as it is a question, the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529153042	Thank you very much for your reply. I am also very pleased that the Minister says that an initiative will be taken later today, so as to draw attention to these things. Because I really do not think that people know that it is illegal, and if we talk about it a little more and come out with it, I actually think that there are a lot of people who might think about it. In fact, I do not think that people at all are thinking about how much it can affect other people. For example: There was a terrible tragedy here on March 17 this year with a 4-year-old boy who got a grape in his throat. The family tried to get the little boy alive while they were waiting for the ambulance. It took 20 minutes, and in those 20 minutes a lot of people came in, and the people who then stood there and didn't help took pictures and filmed. So they took pictures and filmed while there were some who struggled to get life in a little 4-year-old boy's body. And unfortunately, he died. But that is just not acceptable, especially when the relatives are told afterwards what has happened. In the situation, they didn't realize it themselves because they were preoccupied with the boy. There I think we have to talk to these citizens and say, "Go away and let people work." There was another incident that a woman wrote me about. Her husband had been driving. She gets a call and gets word that he's lost control of the bike and he's run into a tree and he's dead. They expect it to be caused by an ill-being, so it was a natural death on a motorcycle. She drives to check on the place and the man, and how he's doing, and while they're there, some people take pictures of car and motorcycle and post them on Facebook. There's a group on Facebook that I talked about earlier, where you can get chocolate if you're the first to tip it. A picture of a recognizable car and motorcycle is then put up before they can tell the relatives what had happened. This woman asked me if it wasn't something we had to look at. She was not the one who was out on social media, but her children and her acquaintances could see that there had been an accident before she could even tell the children that the father here had died. It made me think: one thing is that it is illegal; another is how we get people to think about what they are doing and how we ensure that, when it is illegal, you know that you can report it on and that the police then have to take care of it. When I have asked the Minister for Justice how many fines have fallen, I have received the answer that no fines have really been imposed. The question is whether it is because we ourselves are not familiar with it. Are we going to take action ourselves and say that when we see someone taking pictures, we have to report it on? The question then is whether you can take a picture of them and pass it on and say that they are the ones who have taken the picture. Then we've done something ourselves. I don't have to drill in that. But the main thing in that is that we have to talk about it being illegal. If you get pictures of your car or other vehicle or whatever it is, you report those people, so that there are also some people who are convicted of it. Because then it may also become more credible that something is happening. Of course, I also want the police to ensure that when you get to these places, you take care of the people you see standing there. I don't believe the police have been out there watching someone take pictures or film and just let it pass. That is why I am glad that at any rate it is happening, that this campaign is being carried out and that at least something is being done about it. And, of course, I also hope that the Minister will look at this facebook group. I've passed on the name. I don't have to advertise this. But it is a group in which chocolate is actually promised to the first person to turn to it. There are pictures where you, among other things. can see a man lying on a stretcher. And yes, you're also trying to blur some license plates, but many times it's not enough to make a passenger car unidentifiable. So I certainly hope that this is something that we will continue to work on, and I look forward to the debate. I am pleased that we support the proposal for adoption that we have made together. All parties support the proposal for adoption. Suggestions for adoption The Parliament stresses the importance of personal responsibility and special consideration for the use of social media in situations where persons have been injured. The Danish Parliament is particularly opposed to behaviour in which persons put photos or film recordings of injured persons, vehicles or other characteristics that allow the identification of persons on social media without their consent. The Danish Parliament notes that such conduct will be punishable under the circumstances and calls on the police and prosecutor to take advantage of the legal capacity to prosecute infringements. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Ministry of Justice has made a proposal this month concerning, inter alia: To tighten up the penalties for violations of peace and honour. Parliament calls on the authorities to be aware of the problem and notes, at the same time, that in future the police will work to raise citizens' awareness of the consequences of their behaviour in disaster and other crisis situations. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20180529153731	Thank you very much, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529153747	Thank you for the floor, President. As the rapporteur for the questioners has said, it is in many ways an important subject to be debated here. It is important that we send out a clear signal from the Danish Parliament on what we think is right and, above all, on what we think in these contexts is quite wrong. I think that all of us feel the same way about the cases that have been mentioned by Mrs Liselott Blixt, that one has to say that one has to say that people have no boundaries in these situations. Therefore, it is important that we focus on it also in the debate here, because it should not be the case that if your loved ones, family members or others have suffered an accident, you might experience it on social media, websites and other things before you get this call from the police. That is why it is important to focus on it. After all, this is also about what we discussed before: What kind of behavior do we think is right, and in particular what behaviour is wrong on social media? We discussed the issue of violations of peace and honour before, and this is a good continuation of it. That is why it is good that we have the question here, because there must be limits to what we, as a society, think can be done, even when it comes to acting on social media and on the Internet. I do not think that those who do that are malicious, but I think that we need to focus on it together, so that people know how it affects, what damage it does to not least the closest to those who have suffered an accident. That is why, first of all, the debate on this is perhaps the most important, because one can hope that the debate alone will lead to fewer people stopping, taking pictures and sharing pictures on social media at the rate that is happening today. We can hope so, then, to help train people, if you like, to proper social media behavior. So, overall, we think it is good that the debate is being raised. We think it is important that we focus on this. And, as the rapporteur for the questioners has also said, the Social Democrats can support the proposal for adoption which was read out just now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154041	You're welcome, sir. Bødskov. Welcome to the long-awaited sir. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154051	There were earlier other times when getting to it went a little faster. The enquiry debate that is being raised here today is from the Danish People's Party, which wants to know what the government is going to do to prevent people from publishing pictures and films from accident sites on the web before the relatives are informed of the accident and that photos and footage reveal faces, license plates and other sensitive information. I can say it in Danish: it is an incredible mess, to put it frankly. I think Mrs Liselott Blixt's example tells us everything. I don't want to repeat this. It actually went right into the heart of most people. We must put an end to this, and that is why I think it is excellent that we should have the debate here today, because we have to say that no matter how good things are required of people, there is therefore a large proportion of the population who have no borders and where probably never will be enough. Unfortunately, I have to say that the advance of social media has in some way made it easier to further collate, for example, these images. It was like something else when they had to be developed and in an envelope etc. etc. That is why there is every reason to welcome the debate here. The question is what is being done about it, and I have to say that there are already rules that take this into account. In particular, it is Article 264d of the Penal Code on the unauthorised disclosure of communications or images relating to the private circumstances or pictures of another person which, under the circumstances, may be manifestly omitted from the public. It's a provision that can and will hit these cases. The Minister has also referred to data protection rules and to good press ethics. On paragraph 264 of the Penal Code, which is the key provision here, it is worth pointing out that we have, as far as I could hear with the approval of the Assembly as a whole, first dealt with a proposal which significantly increases the penalty for violations of this provision. That is welcome, and it will also be appreciated in the relation we are talking about here. In addition, the new Data Protection Act has also tightened the penalties against the Personal Data Act. We will probably see examples of this in the future. The legal basis is in order, but that is not enough. It is also important, therefore, that the law also investigates and that it leads to conviction, otherwise there is not much about having them. I just have to say that, at least in the situation in which the Danish police have been in recent years, one probably cannot imagine the police in that this has been cases that have been downgraded, to put it in Danish. Because the fact is that you prioritise something, yes, then you downgrade under the same means something else. This has certainly been downgraded. I hope it can be prioritised. Nor is it more difficult, at least on the official network, to go in and see who is breaking the law and publishing these pictures. The Minister referred to the fact that the National Police are taking an indicative action. I actually think that is what is needed. I might fear that most people may have a feeling that it is morally not quite right, but that there is nothing against it in criminal law. And at least the last part of the view is wrong. I look forward to making this clear to the people as a whole in the hope that some people will take note of it and those who do not will be taken and prosecuted. With regard to the text, which has been read out by a former rapporteur, I can confirm that it can be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154515	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154523	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. There is no doubt that it is very serious when you share pictures of accidents and of injured people. That, of course, is something you should not do. I fully agree that it is very morally reprehensible and what else has been said from up here in the course of this debate. I also believe that this must be followed by some kind of focus on digital education. Unfortunately, this is not the only example we have that images are shared where it can create very problematic and serious situations for those who are shared images. Most recently, here in Parliament, we discussed revenge porn, i.e. images that are shared without consent. So, in addition to being able to endorse the text adopted by a former rapporteur, I also think it is very good if the police come up with what I think the Minister called a moral song that, of course, there is no sharing of photos from accident scenes and from accident situations. In addition, I hope that it will help us take a debate on how to create this digital education, when it's okay to share a picture, and when it's not okay to share a picture. Many of these things are not solved only by the police or by criminal law. I think that many of these things are also solved by the fact that educators, teachers and other professionals, who are around especially the young people who use these media very much, are being trained to have a talk with the young people about when it's okay to share photos and when it's not okay. However, having said that, I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate and that we can endorse the aforementioned proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154723	Thank you to Mrs. Rosa Lund, and welcome to Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154728	Thank you. The digital age in which we live places great demands on us as citizens. When you sit behind a computer screen, your fellow human beings are suddenly very far away, and you can easily forget your good upbringing, and that there are people on the other end and not just zeros or ones, if you can put it that way. It is as if we, as citizens, have not followed this development. Digital education has slipped into the background, and we are happy to print even an image that should never have been divided without giving a thought to those people who could have their fundamental rights violated. Because sharing images without consent is a serious violation, and it does not matter whether it is private images or what we are discussing here are pictures of traffic victims or victims of crime. But, of course, as legislators, we also have to keep up, and that is the discussion that has, as it were, been raised here. As the Minister for Justice has explained, it is already a criminal offence to share images today without consent, and just before this question debate, as I have said, we have just dealt with a legislative proposal to tighten up on violations of peace and honour. I am fully confident that the tightening up compared with the attention that has been paid to this type of crime in recent times to the public will mean that we see a change in people's behaviour. We really must hope so, because far along the way it is basically a matter of carelessness. We do not believe that this is the sole responsibility of the legislator, but that we as an individual also bear a large part of the responsibility for strengthening this digital education. We naturally agree with the proposed text.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154935	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen, and welcome to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529154943	Thank you. There is no doubt, as the former rapporteur who was just on before me said, that there have been completely new rules of play for our behaviour and our relations with each other. That is quite a different way we are in relation to each other, it is quite different kinds of conflict that we get; it is some other kinds of conflict that our children and young people have when it happens on social media than those that we experienced when we were young children. When I read this • Falck to disturbing spectators:- Retreat from December 2016, • Call from paramedics: It gets worse and worse, Ambulanceguard Denni Thorbeck Christensen had to call the police because curious people interfered when he treated a critically ill, • Anne injured in accident: Curious photographed her. Lots of drivers choose to photograph traffic accidents on the side of the road, and spectators for the car accident fucked up paramedics, and the police for drivers: Don't leave pictures from fatal accidents on social media. For I would say that it is not necessarily part of my understanding of how we are good to each other, to do such things. But I just think it can be difficult to understand the consequences, because many of those who are doing this have not been brought up to what is happening when we do things like this, where we actually prevent rescuers from coming forward. In one case, the emergency medical helicopter in a specific accident could not come forward at all... it was on a South Jutland highway... because there were just so many people photographing this fatal accident. It is actually quite sad that we have come there. So you might wonder, and so thank you for raising this debate. Because, of course, we need to have a lot of focus on what we are doing about it. Because it is disrespectful and it is offensive to publish pictures of victims and of their relatives who are part of an accident, and therefore we must focus on it, as we have today. I believe, and we believe in the alternative, that one of the solutions is simply to have more education in schools about these new social communities that are going on and about the things that are happening on social media. These are new communities, and how do we behave in them? What can we afford? What do we do if we are subjected to such violations on social media? There's a lot of need for that, and these stories testify to that. Because it's not bad people who put these pictures on the Internet. These are some who simply cannot see through the consequences and do not think about what it does to the people who are part of that accident. That is why we support the text of the adoption which was read out by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155302	Thank you very much, Mrs Schnoor, and welcome to Mrs Zenia Stamp from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155311	Thank you for that and thank you for raising this request debate. I was also very touched by Mrs Liselott Blixt's rapporteur's speech and the examples that were mentioned, and there have certainly been many others to take off too. We have, as the Minister for Justice says, in all probability the right legislation so that we can punish the people who are doing this, but there is also sometimes a need to put the police on their shoulders and say: remember to use that legislation too. Because it is quite common knowledge in the Folketing here that the police have a lot to look at, and that is a difficult priority. But it is probably also good to run some of these cases, perhaps not to the horror and warning, but just to enforce the standards we actually have in society, and that is our task as legislators. But we don't see everything, and thank God for it, and the police don't see everything, which is why sometimes we also need to put the law in the back of our head and say: Remember to enforce these rules. Because it is really important that we get the mark on what kind of standards we have in society. In fact, I was not aware that taking pictures in these situations is a criminal offence, and I am very happy to find out, but it is also important that some cases are brought so that people know it. I don't know what motivates people to be so ruthless in these situations. I don't think it's necessarily evil, but maybe some craving for us all to run around and be Extra Bladet or be the one who has the picture, because it's attractive to be there and see it, be the first and be the one who has the picture, etc., and there I think it's really important that we get a signal from in here that it's not your job as a citizen. Let the media know what rules apply, which I think they know a little better than the citizens, and let us show ourselves as fellow human beings who show the consideration that is, of course, required and which should also be expected in these situations. So we fully support the proposal for adoption and also think it is important that we get a signal just now to our police force that they might have to raise some of these issues, so that we get the mark for everyone, what are the rules and what is the norm in this area. Because the norm is that in these situations we show ourselves as fellow humans and considerate, and that we don't run around thinking that it's our job to document and sell pictures or boast that we were there and saw it. You can pack that up. So thank you for raising the debate and thank you for a text that we can also see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155549	Thank you, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, and welcome to Mr. Nase Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155607	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the debate on the question. It is an important debate and also thanks to the rapporteurs for the many examples highlighted in the speeches. The fact is that digital education and respect for our fellow citizens are extremely important. My experience with social media is that most citizens are decent and do things properly without breaking borders. But there are some who do not, and we agree with the Danish People's Party that it is unethical and unacceptable when citizens film accidents with injured people and put it online without people's consent. It's a bad thing, and it's important that you don't do it. First of all, it is about changing behaviour and changing attitudes, and it is important that it happens at home and that it happens in schools, and it is also about informing us that it may have consequences that many are not aware of. Young people and other citizens should know that it is a criminal offence to publish photos of victims and dead people online according to § 264d, if the person shown in the photo has not given consent and several sentences have actually been passed in this area. A magazine mentioned by the Minister for Justice in his speech was convicted because they showed some pictures where those shown had not given their consent. So, in other words, there are provisions that are used today to prosecute people and media who violate privacy in the event of accidents, and the rules are now also being updated by the draft law that we dealt with earlier, namely L 240. With L 240, the penalty is tripled for violating the provisions of the Criminal Code on the violation of peace in, among other things: So, in other words, attention is paid to the challenge and there is legislation now being tightened up, but, as the Minister for Justice has mentioned, there is also a need for information on the existing options, an effort that the police must pay attention to and disseminate. So, all in all, thank you for the question debate. It is interesting and it is important that we are up to date in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155901	Thanks to Nas Khader. Then we end with the Minister for Justice, but we also usually give the rapporteur for the questioners an opportunity to come up at the end. But it's the Attorney General first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529155912	Thank you. I guess we can't really say thank you for a good debate, because fortunately we agree on this. It's a pleasure. I heard Mrs Liselott Blixt say in her introduction that people do not know that it is illegal. I think that's the whole hop in this. You don't know, and you don't think. It's probably the two things that are really important. These are quite unacceptable examples that were examined. I can get into it. I didn't have the exciting experience last September, when on the Funen Highway I saw the brakes being slowed down, and bang, there was a van that hit into the ministerial car. I was also so unlucky that we prevented Mr. Martin Henriksen and Mr. Christian Langballe in coming to the annual meeting of the Danish People's Party on time, because we happened to be pushed up in their car. After such an accident one stands and is a little confused to say it now, because it is true, but it wasn't long before there were reports of an accident, and it wasn't long before there were pictures of it. And I could figure out that when there were some people there would probably be some who would at some point tell who else was standing there. You're in the situation and you're also under the stress that you'd better call your better half and your parents before some kind of yellow beam starts driving somewhere. At least it was an eye-opener for me about how fast this is going. It is important for me to stress that it is a criminal offence, and with what we dealt with earlier on concerning the media offensive, we are actually giving it an extra touch with the bill we were discussing just before we started this question debate. But I believe that the information campaign, the preventive initiatives, and the fact that we are talking about it and getting better at talking about it, is what really needs to be done about it. We can pass all the laws we want, and we can then punish some, but it is not certain that it does make people know more about it. That is why I think it is very good that there should be information about this. I also agree with those who have said that we cannot legislate one by one out of this. This is also about good morals. It's about something as basic as good morals that you think about, compared to what you bid other people. So I am very pleased that we have had the exchange of views here and that we have a proposal for adoption which the whole of the Danish Parliament supports. It shows that we're gathering together to distance ourselves from this. For me, this isn't so much about politics. It's of course politics. It's about ordinary humanity and the way we behave and are together. So I think it has been very good to have it discussed today. Should we not hope that this will then be the starting point for us to have a wider discussion on it everywhere, in schools, at work and at home with families? And maybe sometimes we have to remind each other, if you see anything, to ask, "Hey, what are you doing there? I guess we can all have a little trouble with that. But we're just living in a time when instead of seeing it through our own eyes we look a lot through the screen when we take pictures with the phone. This is also true here. So I think it is important that we have started the debate and I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160245	There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160252	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister, also for the answer and for the sympathy that has been given. One of the things I have also pointed out in this is that there are some websites or facebook pages that encourage citizens to take pictures of accidents and send in. If they're the first, they get a plate of chocolate. Is this something the Minister intends to look at in terms of whether there is anything to do about it, whether there is anything criminal by encouraging people to take pictures of accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160320	I would really like to look at how we are going to get rid of this, just as we are currently looking at something that is in a completely different ball street: that on social media, for example. It is almost possible to join some burglary group in a geographical area where you can order a break-in. Here we are talking about whether we should look at the possibilities of the police for agent activity. It's just to tell you that there's a lot of this stuff going on, and then there's something like this. I think this gives us cause to look at it. I can't just say what that will mean, but I'd certainly like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160348	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Liselott Blix, has the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160404	It is that you should also remember to say thank you when you have had a very good talk in this Chamber. It's really important. After all, these are new things that happen with the digital media, and if anyone has to be aware of it, we are the ones sitting in here. We must also ensure that we report to the citizens who are out there, what is right and what is wrong, what is criminal and what is not, and what is preventable when you go out and are a nuisance and exhibit other people in that way. As I said, I do not think, as some people have also said, that someone is doing it in an evil sense. I actually think they do it because they don't think about it and that it's become part of everyday life that you take pictures and post. I am very pleased that there are others who support the idea that some cases should be taken on to show that this is illegal, that it involves fines. So I hope you can take some of those who are out there and get it to be a warning for others and thus tell them that this is illegal. But thank you for the talk - or the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160519	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would point out that, as I said, the proposal for adoption will not be put to the vote until Thursday 31 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160534	I would also point out here that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 May 2018. We must have the reasons for the question, and that is with the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160607	Thank you. There is simply nothing meaningful about accidents, but it makes it even more pointless if the people who are to be there on the spot with help, who are to reach and save lives, who are to take care of the people who have come into trouble, cannot get there either because of curious people, who are crowding together in meats, people who take pictures, or others who are deliberately trying to bother the authorities when they have to get to the end of their efforts to save people on what may well be called the worst day of your life. There is nothing meaningful about that. I think it is essential that we in the Danish Parliament discuss the situation, that unfortunately there is sometimes a tendency that it is difficult for those who have to enforce law and order that it is difficult for our authorities to arrive in emergency situations that they may have difficulty in doing so because some get in the way. It is a very, very big problem, and it helps to undermine the security we must all have, both for each other, but also for society, the day we ourselves get into difficulties. At least there's got to be somebody to take care of it. So I am very much looking forward to this debate here. It may be said that it is partly linked to the question debate that we have just concluded. I shall not hide the fact that we in the Danish People's Party hope that the Danish Parliament will be as sympathetic in this debate as it was in the previous one. These are very important issues that are being discussed, so of course we have a hope of doing so. However, I look forward to the debate and to the Minister's reply and to the speeches made by the rapporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160755	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen for the explanatory statement. Now we need the answer, and that's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529160803	Thank you. This question also raises a very important issue, in which a public debate is certainly beneficial. I do not think there is anything new about accidents attracting human attention. It can be either to see if you can help in any way, or it can be out of curiosity. But, of course, it must never be the case that people in accident situations obstruct or impede the work of police, paramedics or firemen because they are taking pictures or the like. It goes without saying that it is totally unacceptable and total disrespect for the injured, their relatives and the police and rescue officers who are responsible for helping those who have been injured. It is no place for some to put obstacles in the way or make the work of the people on the front line more difficult to do a vital job to help the rest of us when we are in need. It is they who must look after all of us and come to help when we need it. Preventing or hampering the work of police and rescue officers can be a criminal offence. Paragraph 119 of the Criminal Code. 3, criminalises the obstacle to inter alia: The work of police, paramedics and firemen. If someone prevents their work, it may be punishable by the provision, but in order to be punished, there is a requirement: that the person concerned has the intention, as is stated in criminal law, to prevent the performance of the work, for example. if you do it on purpose. An infringement of Article 119 (1) of the Treaty 3. shall be fined or imprisoned up to 1 year and 6 months. The police's experience is that although they face increasing challenges with curious people in accident locations, fortunately most follow police instructions and barriers. In addition, according to Section 7 of the Road Traffic Code, this is the case. 5 that unauthorized persons must not come so close to an accident site or fireplace that the rescue or extinguishing work, including to or from the site, is thereby inhibited. Cases where passers-by takes pictures or videos of an accident or fireplace may, where appropriate, constitute a breach of Section 7 of the Road Traffic Code. 5 if rescue work has been inhibited for that reason. In order to be able to be punished under the provisions of the Road Traffic Code, it is a requirement that the person concerned has been negligent. A violation of Section 7 of the Road Traffic Code. Five is fined. But whatever is required, because you can be punished under the two regulations, it does not change the fact that you have to think and carefully consider whether you are a nuisance to the police or rescuers who actually have something to do on the ground. We all have a personal responsibility to show due consideration, respect and consideration for the injured, and we must do our part to ensure that, in an accident, police and rescue personnel have the best possible working conditions. It should not be the case that police and rescuers should focus on removing curious and presumptuous people who crowd around an accident site. The primary focus of the police in accident situations is to save lives, to solve police tasks directly related to the accident, for example: traffic management and shielding, and to coordinate the overall rescue effort. Having said that, I assume, of course, that the police are using the tools they have. This also applies to the possibility of charging if they consider it relevant in the specific situation. As I said, I do not believe that there is anything new about accidents being the subject of human curiosity, and the urge to bring everything in and be close to where it is happening may be so strong that some here forget for a while how their behaviour also has consequences, perhaps even very serious consequences for their fellow human beings. As I also mentioned during the previous enquiry debate, the police used the major motorway accident in March Twitter to make drivers near the accident aware that they had to provide space for rescue vehicles. At the same time, the police called for people not to share photos of the injured on the Internet. The police are aware of the challenges of inappropriate behaviour and of curious people at accident scenes, and they focus on how best to meet the challenge when they move to an accident. The authorities are therefore already aware of the problem, but further information is needed. So today the National Police will come up with an information initiative and again here I would also say: let us just call it a moral song that will help raise public awareness of their behaviour in accidents and make them think more about the consequences of their behaviour in such situations. At the same time, the National Police will generally advise that, where appropriate, preventing or hindering the work of police and rescue personnel in emergency situations may be a criminal offence. Again, I would like to stress in this debate that we all have a personal responsibility to ensure that, in the event of an accident, we respect those involved, their relatives and their needs for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529161336	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529161346	Thank you for that, President. It is once said by a wise man about human nature that if you filled up a theater with people, and if, after they had settled and prepared themselves, you informed them that there had been an accident outside the theatre, they would all rush out because they would rather see the accident than they would see the play they had actually gone in to see. The old statement tells us something about some of the ugly thing about human nature, namely that news about other people's accidents and disasters has always been something that has caught our interest and something you would like to experience. Unfortunately, this has created some boring tendencies. This means that when there are road accidents, you see these glockets, which I think are the very derogatory ones called, where the speed is reduced, because people will have time to look, some may be holding in completely and holding still, which form a bed of meat from people around the scene of the accident, and that is something that can help to slow down the work that needs to be done by the authorities to ensure that people who are involved can get help as quickly as possible. So there is something in human nature that to some extent means that people are drawn from this and stop. Some do what the Minister mentioned in his speech, perhaps unconsciously, and at the moment the police point out that they have to move, they want to straighten in and move. It's the unconscious part of it, and it's kind of bad enough. Then there is another part of it, and that is what people in these years see very much in Sweden or other European countries, where people may be more consciously trying to slow down or bother the authorities, the fire department, ambulances, the police, when they move out, and where you meet the authorities with stone throws instead of with open arms, as you should when people are in trouble. This is the part that we may have rarely seen in Denmark yet compared to other countries, but it is at least as worrying if we are to believe that the development of the rest of Europe at some point in time is also seriously moving to Denmark. Then there is the part that deals with emergency driving, where some use the possibility that you can pull after a police car or an ambulance that comes in full quadruple to save lives, because it gives some space, which can also be harmful to other people. I think that when you look at the fact that respect for authorities is falling in countries like Denmark, that is something we have to deal with in some way. As we see it in the Danish People's Party, there are two ways to deal with this problem. The first is about a change of mentality. It is from the fact that, of course, you do not pull over and take pictures, and to the fact that, of course, you could not ever throw stones at the people who do a very important job for our authorities either. The second is the sanctions front. We simply have to enforce these rules very much and make sure that people who can't figure this out get a good patch over their fingers. We need to ensure that some real fines are handed out and that the risk of getting them is high. This can't just be something where you pull on your shoulder and you say it's gonna be okay. Of course it shouldn't be like that. I think that the Minister was particularly concerned about a good thing in his speech, and that was the information campaign that will be launched to tell the Danes that this is problematic. Praise the government for that. I think that makes sense. I also think it might be possible to consider whether the police have the tools to do so, so that these things can be dealt with seriously. It might well be that, if you have to document some of these things, you have to prove that people are getting in the way; document that people are getting very close and taking pictures or bothering some of those who are working; Mrs. Pernille Schnoor had a good example of this in the previous query debate, where she told about a situation where someone had managed to make it quite difficult to land with a helicopter that was supposed to help a patient who had been injured, could consider simply to patch some of our emergency vehicles with cameras and make sure that people who break these rules are held accountable and that there is an opportunity, even after they have run, that you can find them and send them a proper penalty order and make sure that they are going to pay afterwards. So simply make sure that this change is made by the fact that there are very, very clear sanctions. We in the Danish People's Party would certainly be completely open to this, and that is one of the things we want to take up in the future. Then I shall remember to read out a proposal for adoption, which fortunately has gained quite broad support, with all three government parties, the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, Radicals and the Danish People's Party being involved. Proposals for adoption The Parliament stresses the importance of personal responsibility and of showing consideration, respect and consideration in situations where persons have been injured or are at risk. The Danish Parliament notes that it would be a criminal offence, where appropriate, to hinder ambulance rescuers, firemen and police from carrying out their work. Parliament also notes that the police are aware of the problem and that in future the police will work to raise citizens' awareness of the consequences of their behaviour in emergency situations. • V 69). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529161935	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The proposal for adoption read out is part of the further negotiations. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529161949	Thank you for that, President. Once again, this is an important question, and perhaps, as has been said, it is also very much about morality, behaviour, values and the fact that today it is already a criminal offence which both the authors and the Minister of Justice have mentioned, if you put obstacles in the way of police, ambulance or other rescue personnel. There is no doubt that it must be awful both for those who have suffered an accident, but indeed for those authorities who are struggling every day to get to these scary situations, to do their job, that they will then almost have to fight their way through one line after another, where people, consciously or unconsciously, cannot find a way of moving, for it is all about life and body. That is why it is good that we should focus on it. We have just discussed, in the course of this question, a key point, namely that in these situations too, there are people who cannot find out that you should not stop and take pictures of these situations, nor can you find out that you should not share them on social media and the Internet. This is a variety of it. There are some traffic problems with behaviour, and that is why I think it is very good, as the Minister of Justice points out, that the National Police will now take a number of measures which highlight that we all have a responsibility to ensure that this does not happen. So we are very pleased that the Minister of Justice and the National Police are now putting these things into effect. This is not going to happen, and it should not be the case that the authorities we have who have to look after us and who have to come forward in these situations are being obstructed. So the Social Democratic Party fully agrees with the importance of having this debate. It cannot be right for anyone to obstruct or make the work of rescuers and police in the event of accidents more difficult. It does not belong anywhere, it is not acceptable, and that is why we also support the proposal for adoption, which already has a majority in the Danish Parliament and which the questioner also read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162222	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162232	Thank you. Today, the Danish Parliament is discussing a question about what the government will do to prevent curious and presumptuous persons from preventing or hampering the rescue staff and the vital tasks of the police in connection with accidents. There is absolutely no doubt that the question debate here and the background to the question has full support in the Left, I must say hurry. There is no question, and I repeat, no one in Denmark should try to prevent the work of the rescue staff or, for that matter, the police, whether in accidents or in other contexts, because we have also seen examples where the police are not received in any other context, so exactly the same applies here. We must take action on this, and for me it is just important to emphasise that, thank God, we already have the basis for a step in the direction of the authorities today. We have section 119 of the Criminal Code. 3. that it is illegal to prevent this kind of work, and we have the rules of the Road Traffic Code, according to which unauthorized persons must not come so close to an accident site or fireplace that the rescue or extinguishing work, including driving to and from the site, is thereby hindered. So there are both rules, as I said in section 119 of the Criminal Code, and there are rules in the Road Traffic Code that prevent it. Unfortunately, as I said in the previous debate, it is not enough that we have the rules. They also need to be implemented in order to have some sort of preventive effect. There it may be that it has lagged in recent years because the police have had to give priority to more important things, gangs, terror, border and the like, and there is nothing to say about that. To that end, I can only say that with the police now getting better resources, I also hope that this is an area where there is a surplus to do something about, because without an effort there is not much about having the rules in question in the law, so it does not have much general preventive effect, to put it bluntly. It is important that the police pay attention to the problems, but it is certainly also important that citizens are aware that it is illegal, whether intentionally or negligently, to prevent police work in the event of accidents. That is why I welcome the fact that there will be an effort to provide information about this, including an effort to provide information on how illegal it is and, if so, what the penalty will be if you do not comply with it. So, on this basis, I can say that the Left can support in any way the proposal for adoption which has already been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162539	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162547	Thank you. I will not take so much of your time, because it should be perfectly logical for all people that, in the event of an accident, you should not disturb or prevent the work of the police or the rescue staff. In any case, I think that should be perfectly logical for everyone. When DF raises this debate, it must be because it is not and that the Danish People's Party experiences that there is a problem here. And if there is, I would just like to say thank you to DF for raising the debate. I would also like to say, although it seems a little strange in some way when you come from the Enhedslisten, that it sounds really good, as the Minister for Justice said, that there is a moral call from the police that one should of course not disturb the police's work when they are solving an accident or the rescue staff's work for that matter. And, of course, they must also point out that it is therefore illegal. It may be that there are many Danes who do not know that I do not know about it but so, it is illegal, and one should not do it, and it is also, one might say, morally reprehensible, I think, to disturb some who are in the process of saving some people by accident. So I really do not want to say so much more than that we can also support the proposal for adoption that has been read out. And otherwise I would like to thank you for the debate. We must then hope that this somehow works and that rescue work in the event of accidents will no longer be disturbed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162727	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. The next one is sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162732	Thank you. Although I may not quite understand it myself, accidents and accidents have a great appeal to some people. They need to bring it all along, and in some situations it can cause problems for the men and women who have to save lives. We must, of course, contain this, but I must also say that, of course, it is ultimately a matter of individual responsibility. It has been mentioned earlier that it is about morality, behaviour and values, and I could not agree more. And yes, as a society, we must, of course, do what we can to prevent it, among other things. by punishing infringements of legislation that already exist. But you also have a personal responsibility in this, and it is, of course, just as we discussed it during the last debate on the question, one way or another about education. Then I understand from the minister that the National Police are engaged in an announcement that it was called a moral song, I could hear before. And it cannot be expressed any more clearly; it is two good words, I think, to express exactly what this is about. So I have little more to say than that I hope that this debate will help to raise awareness of the problem so that we can put an end to this phenomenon. Of course, we also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162902	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529162907	Thank you. And thank you to DF for raising this debate. When I had to sit and prepare for the debate, which is, of course, about, as the question sounds, what the government will do to prevent curious and presumptuous people from preventing or hampering the rescue staff and the police's vital tasks in connection with accidents, I wentogled it to find articles and incidents, because I had an experience that this was something new. Now I do not know if I have gone back far enough, but I was surprised that the first article I came across was from 2004. So this is a bad thing, nothing new at all, and I think I have a 10-20 articles here that show that in very, very many cases there are disturbing and even obstructing the work of the police and rescuers in the places where the accidents happen. In the article from 2004, there is a quote from a clinical psychologist, Dodo Astrup, who writes that the description of people's behaviour is not surprising, and then I quote: "We are drawn by everyday dramas, and that is a negative feature of people who make us see violence, blood and destruction. You can even talk about an attraction of atrocities, " says Dodo Astrup. She tells us that people today are less trusted in authority, so this is back in 2004, and thus has less respect for the boundaries of others. That might explain why people don't listen to law enforcement. And then she goes on to say: "It is simply terrible that parents make sure that their children can see the accidents. This can have major consequences for the children later - they become frightened and risk becoming much less sensitive to the sufferings of others, says the clinical psychologist. ▪ It is distasteful and reprehensible that spectators prevent the work of rescuers and police just because they are curious about seeing an accident. And it also says that not only is the work of rescuers prevented, but it can actually have incredibly negative consequences if, for example, there are. children are also present. That is why this is an important debate and, like the former rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for using the expression a moral song. Right here, I agree with the Minister for Justice, and it's a great pleasure to be here. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for the debate. We support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption and look forward to further work in this area, which hopefully gives a positive effect in the sense that our rescuers and our police can of course be allowed to work in peace when accidents occur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163215	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163222	Thank you. Thank you from here too for raising the debate. There are certainly some who may not exactly stop in an evil opinion, but also in a good sense. Then there are also those, including myself, who, when something happens, sometimes think: Maybe there is a need for help, maybe I seem cynical and indifferent if I just move on. But these are not the ones we are trying to contain here; they are clearly those who just want to see what it is and are curious. I don't really know what the possibilities are today for the police. You can punish people for preventing rescue work, but can you really put a fine on the spot? I don't know. Nor do I know whether it will be needed and whether it will be a good tool for the police. It might be that, as a policeman, instead of having to run long court cases, it could be good to be able to just say, "You know what, now you have to get out of the way, 'cause otherwise I can put a fine on you. I don't know. It sounds like we actually have the legal instruments that we need, but perhaps there is just a need for more attention to be paid to the problem and a moral song and perhaps also to focus on it by the police. But when I say it again, I know that this is something we say very often, and in such a situation one would prefer that the police spend their time helping the rescue work rather than running around talking to curious people and imposing fines. But, on the other hand, it may well be what it is necessary to create the calm and also to send out the signal that if there are accidents and you stop, then it has to be to help and not be, because you are just curious and want to be part of something sensational, so you can tell them at home or colleagues. But I understand from the Minister and from the debate here that we have the legislative instruments that are needed; that the police have the tools they need. I think that is important. Otherwise, we will be willing to take steps in that direction too, but I do not understand the debate that there is a need for it. Otherwise, we must do what Christiansborg can do not only to create the necessary instruments, but also to give that song and send out that message through the channels we have, in order to have a more public and moral debate about behaviour in connection with accidents. We support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163500	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stamp. The next one is sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163507	Thank you, President, and thank you again to the Danish People's Party for another interesting question debate. It is obvious that the curiosity of spectators must not stand in the way of the work of police, paramedics or firemen. This is unacceptable and shows a lack of respect. It can be about life and death. It is also a criminal offence today under Section 119 of the Criminal Code. 3, which criminalises obstructing the work of police, paramedics and firefighters, if done intentionally, as it is called. The penalty is now from fines to 11⁄2 years in prison. When you ask the police about their experience, they say that most citizens have respect for their work, instructions and barriers. The fact that citizens stand in the way is more the exception than the rule, and sometimes it happens unconsciously. And when it comes to those who do so consciously, we must use the provisions that exist in order to prosecute them. This also applies to section 7 of the Road Traffic Code. 5, which says that you must not get too close to places of accident and hinder the work of the professionals. However, regardless of the legislation in force, it also requires that citizens think well about it. This requires self-discipline in such situations. The police and rescuers do not need to spend precious minutes removing curiosity from the scenes of an accident. I understand that the police are going to pass on this information work; they are committed to information and we think that is excellent. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163707	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. That was the last in the rapporteur's line, and that brings us to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529163717	Thank you. I am very pleased with the statements that have been made, because, like the previous debate on the question, it has not had much debate here either, but has more been a statement or an emphasis on the fact that we are united in agreeing on this. I am also pleased that we have the opportunity to intervene and be able to punish. I have also listened to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen's statement on what to pay particular attention to in the future. I also think that in his speech here he clearly puts the finger on the problem, that is to say that it is due to lack of consideration and the part of human nature that consciously or unconsciously makes us act very strange sometimes. One thing is, of course, the unconscious thing that I think can lie deep in people and then they just have to hurry to move when they're asked for it but it's beyond comprehension that people can make themselves consciously bother. Fortunately, however, we also have ways of dealing with this. As in the previous question, I am glad that we are united in this. I am glad that there is a Parliament here which says that, firstly, there must of course be legislation in place, but secondly, we must talk about the fact that this information campaign is being launched. It's about good morals. I know that this is not the case every day that we in Parliament are talking about a moral song and so on, and this must also be used with care, because everything cannot be a moral song. But right here, a moral song is the right word, because people who prevent the work of the rescue and the police are simply some who need a moral song. I think most of us here are probably raised with the fact that when the police say something, you do what you're told. Of course, that is the way it should apply to everyone. So again I think it's important, and I think words mean something like the words of the last query debate, F 29. I think it matters what we say; I think it means something with the debates we launch; I think it matters that the police initiate an information campaign and you talk about this around the dinner tables, at workplaces and elsewhere. Hopefully someone will hear about it one way or another or the third way, by spending our time talking about it. And then we can hope that it gives food for thought. I very much hope so, and I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for raising this discussion. We can all agree that this is morally wrong, but when are we going to talk about it? We shall do so here, and I think that deserves a great deal of credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529164012	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would point out that the proposed adoption will not be put to the vote until Thursday 31 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180529164030	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 30 May 2018, kl. 8:00. So it could indicate a long day: kl. 8:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
