ParlaMint-DK_20180124130009	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 65 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the granting of grants to free primary schools, that education may only take place in European languages. ) The title of the case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130036	The first question concerns the Foreign Minister of Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130046	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130049	Thank you for that, President. The question is: does the Foreign Minister share the same concern as the EU's spokesperson in relation to developments in Turkey as regards democracy and human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130101	Thank you for the question. In fact, I can reply very briefly: yes, I fully share that concern. I think for a long time, what the questioner and I agree on, we have seen things go in the wrong direction in Turkey. And there is also a great deal of attention on the part of the European Union, which is also reflected in the statement that has been made by the European Union's spokesperson in relation to the specific case. So yes, I fully share the view that is also at the root of the question; I share the concern expressed by the European Union spokesman, as I do by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130140	Here's the questioner, Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130143	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the very clear and cash answer. There is no doubt that there have been a number of actions that have been very worrying about the process of democracy that Turkey has been through from 2000 to 2005 and 2006, after which it has gone the wrong way. Especially after the failed military coup in 2016, there have been some rather interesting interventions, you might say, which have been worrying about human rights and democracy. The reason why I am asking this question is that there has been another very interesting and perhaps very clear evidence that Turkey is heading in the wrong direction, and that is precisely the concern of the European Union spokesperson regarding this case of two journalists. One is actually an economics professor and journalist named Mehmet Altan and the other is These two journalists are being imprisoned and, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, they should be released as there is no reason for their imprisonment. But the Constitutional Court's decision is being reversed by a local court in Istanbul, and that is a little interesting, because where is the independent court? Where is the rule of law in Turkey? It is against this background and with the concern that I believe that there is a very clear example here that the Constitutional Court is being undermined. So I would like to know if perhaps this is something the Minister intends to address. I think it is fine to express concern, but perhaps we should also express more than just concern, because this is a very clear breach of the independence of the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130339	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130340	After all, there are two people in agreement who stand here and speak together, because we share the concern. The last specific case here is an example which is very, very difficult to understand for us in the Danish system, in Danish democracy and with our respect for the courts, in other words that you can have a constitutional court that says that the two mentioned must be released, but then it does not happen because a lower court refuses to comply with it. That is why it is clearly something that needs to be addressed, and I do so, among other things. Here too today, but we are also doing so through the opportunities that we have through the international system. We take this type of case of violation of fundamental freedoms very, very seriously, and that is why we are also working to ensure that there is a response and that there is an international follow-up, not least on the part of the European Union. I think I can stand here and allow myself to reveal that, in relation to the case of the two imprisoned journalists, it is likely that there will be a sign on the part of the European Union in the OSCE Permanent Council, with reference to its obligations under that framework. So that is a concrete example of us taking it up. I also expect that there will be renewed discussions within the EU circle on the specific issue, and I will of course again draw attention to the Danish position on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130507	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130508	Now the Minister specifically mentioned the OSCE, but that is how we hold the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Is the Minister also planning to address the challenges of human rights and democracy and, most recently, the independence of the Court of Justice under that heading? After all, the Minister has the presidency for this. That's one. The second is that the Foreign Minister could perhaps also make it clear, as an independent minister, that he is concerned and shares the criticism which, among other things, has been voiced. his colleagues also express, that is, most recently with the EU spokesperson?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130545	The questioner kicks in an open door if you need a picture on it. 'Cause I'm one of them. here today and expressing what is both my personal position, my position as Minister and the position of the government, namely that this is unacceptable. The government has then, it may be said, taken a consequence of the bad developments that we have seen in Turkey for a long time, by the fact that we have gone forward with the Prime Minister and I and have recommended stopping accession negotiations with Turkey with the European Union because it does not make any sense at the moment. It is not the situation in the European Union at the moment that there is a majority in favour of that view, and of course we have to respect that, but it is the Prime Minister's and my clear position that what we see here is not acceptable. We must have reversed developments in Turkey and, at least, a clear signal must be sent to Turkey that respect for human rights, including freedom of expression, is high on the agenda in countries that respect the rule of law, and it is quite obvious that there are major challenges currently facing Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130649	Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130650	Thank you. I do not think I am kicking in an open door because I have not heard the Minister express such concern anywhere. That is why I am asking in this Chamber, and that is why it is good that the Minister is using the word unacceptable, because it is. But will the Minister just answer my second question: does the Minister intend to address this problem under the auspices of the Council of Europe now that we have the Presidency?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130714	Here you go for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130716	Now I was only yesterday in Strasbourg and answered questions from the Members of Parliament down there, and of course there are also Social Democrats there. Sir. Mogens Jensen was present in this connection. We also have various meetings bilaterally, and I also had a meeting with the Danish representatives down there. So all the places where I come forward are expressed the Danish position with regard to Turkey, our concern with regard to the developments that we have seen is emphasised time and time again. It is hardly possible to send out a stronger signal than what the Prime Minister and I did when we sent out a clear signal to Europe and the rest of the world that we do not think it is time to continue the accession negotiations with Turkey. It must be stopped because there is no perspective as the world stands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130808	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, and there is a questioner, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130818	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130820	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that the municipalities can set up cameras on their own initiative only if it is in connection with the protection of public property such as schools, day-care centres, town halls, buses and libraries to prevent crime, but that they cannot do so on, for example, schools, day-care centres, town halls, buses and libraries? a municipally operated parking lot, unless the police allow it, and does the Minister intend to change the law so that the municipalities have more room to choose freely where the cameras are to be set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124130851	Thank you. In short, television surveillance can be a useful and very effective means of combating crime. I have no fear of contact when it comes to television surveillance in public spaces, and I believe that useful and sensible solutions must be found as soon as possible to meet local needs in the fight against crime and to ensure the safety of citizens. Among other things: Therefore, the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed in the 2018 Finance Law Agreement to increase the use of television surveillance in areas where there is a need for special security-building efforts, and a pool has been allocated to the police for the purchase and subsequent operation and maintenance of approx. 100 camcorders of approx. Fifty locations where episodes of violence and unrest occur regularly from experience. It is assumed that the police in the selection of the approx. 50 locations including: are sensitive to which municipalities have had special desires for security-building television surveillance and where there is a police profession reason to set up cameras, and we have also promised to inform the Folketing about the actual execution of that pool. In addition, I have taken the initiative to initiate a work which will begin by examining the needs of the municipalities for television surveillance, and in this connection the Ministry of Justice has asked the National Association of Municipalities to carry out a study of the needs of the municipalities for television surveillance. It is expected that the Ministry of Justice will receive a feedback from KL on the results of the study in February, and when the Ministry of Justice has received KL's feedback, the current cooperation on television surveillance between municipalities and police will be looked at in detail. In this context, it is necessary to consider whether the current framework adequately meets the local needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131038	Here you go, that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131039	Is it correct to understand that the Minister shares the view of the Danish People's Party that cameras can have a preventive effect? For Dansk Folkeparti is really happy with the pool we have helped to get through in the Finance Act, but the reason why we are raising this again is that the municipalities, among other things. also Kolding Municipality, has had a meeting with the Minister on this particular issue and that they have submitted a number of signatures to the Minister on the challenges they are experiencing. So my question is this: will the Minister allow the municipalities to set up cameras where they feel they need it? It may be in nightlife, but it may also be in car parks and commuting spaces, which are simply destroyed and where the cars are destroyed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131131	I share a hundred per cent of the Danish People's Party's view that television surveillance can have a major impact on individual areas. Because we can both hope that it has a preventive effect, but it is also to find out what happened afterwards and to find out who did it. If I do not then give a commitment to change this, i.e. that the municipalities can just do it, then it is because the relationships of the municipalities belong in another ministry. But first of all, I have started this investigation to know, and then the municipalities, via KL, must tell whether they have a problem or not. I fully understand that the Koldings have expressed themselves very clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131211	Yes, they do. I also assume that the Conservatives value municipal autonomy. Therefore, it is also interesting whether they appreciate it so much that they will let the municipalities decide if a municipality considers that they have some challenges, among others. in the nightlife or in parking lots or anywhere else in relation to assaults. The Minister himself had this meeting about it and was also able to clarify the situation in relation to assaults and also Kolding's desire to set up the cameras, which are thus purchased, but which they cannot be allowed to set up, as the police have said they must not set them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131250	There we are back at a classic when we have these discussions with each other about whether a municipality should just be free and square to set them up wherever they like, or whether there should be a police professional angle over, compared to where it is to be monitored. And if we discuss monitoring in general and the rights of municipalities, we will very quickly have to talk to another minister. But now we have jointly dropped some money, we have to buy some cameras, and they must then be distributed. Once we get through it, we can see whether there is still a greater challenge, or whether the challenge has been slightly reduced, and we will of course talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131328	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131334	Thank you. I would like to pick up the thread where the Minister left it, also in relation to what he referred to in the reply, namely the pool that has been set off in the Finance Act. It was a great wish from the Danish People's Party that we got some cameras for those places where there is a real need for it right now and here. Now Denmark's Radio had a story quite a short time ago that the Copenhagen Police were setting up cameras. It is, of course, wonderful, and I can tell the Copenhageners that they will have more security and security on the street. But one of the arguments for this pool was precisely that we in the province, where there is a need for security and security for the Danes, get some cameras set up. And some of the problems that we in the Danish People's Party have had close to us have been problems very pronounced in Kolding and Haderslev, and I think you can also find other municipalities, in the same area even, which might have some major problems, and where for some reason I think it is financial • have said no. What will the Minister do to ensure that the money allocated to the Finance Act is also spent in the province and not only in the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131439	Well for me, this isn't about the province or capital, because a problem is equally serious wherever it is in Denmark. If there are problems with security, we have to solve it where the problem is. There are no two opinions on this in my opinion. After all, we are having a discussion in the Ministry with the National Police and making sure that we have a common understanding of the framework that has been laid down over the agreement in the Finance Act, about these cameras, and of course we are looking at where it is that you have been challenged and where it is that you have expressed special needs. Of course, we'll go in and look at it, and the police will of course have to make an assessment of it. I think it is very good that that pool is being put off, because it means that in the short term, at least, we are going to get beyond the discussion that it is not the economy that should prevent us from setting up cameras. I look forward to the good discussion that will be. I'm quite comfortable with the police setting up the cameras in the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131545	I think you look forward to that in Kolding and Haderslev, i.e. that the cameras will be set up in the right places. We look forward to it. I know that the Minister is a former municipal politician, just as I am, and, following on from what my colleague Mrs Adsbøl said, I would just like to ask the Minister whether he is not confident that the elected urban roots around the city, with their knowledge of their local area, will easily be able to carry out the task and decide where in their municipality it is appropriate to have surveillance, thereby giving them the democratic opportunity to introduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131619	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131620	Yes, I certainly have a lot of confidence, but there are more debates in this. There is the debate on the extent to which we should be monitored. Of course, there will be different political views on that in the Folketing. There must also be similar legal status around Denmark. Well, if there's a municipality that can say they're the number one surveillance community, it can be positive in some people's ears, in others' negative. There I think there should be some common rules. Now we have asked KL, because I would actually like to hear from KL and the municipalities whether they want this opportunity, and that could be the first step: do they want to take this responsibility themselves, or would they rather it be the police who assess?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131659	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl who ends. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131705	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to assess whether the Minister can promise Haderslev and Kolding Kommune in relation to what they asked for if cameras will be set up if it is a great political wish in the city. But I do not know if we can get a clear answer to that today. The fact is that Kolding Municipality has been with the minister, they have also applied to the police for it, and they have purchased the cameras, so there is nothing economical about it. So what will the Minister do with regard to follow-up to February, even if it is estimated that the municipalities cannot set up cameras if they have a wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131752	One thing is that today it is a police professional judgement where it should be. If we are going to touch the local authority and what the municipalities are going to be able to do, it will be the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior with whom this debate is going to take place. But before we take the grief ahead, or whatever to call it, with regard to Kolding and Haderslev, let us wait for the meeting that is now to take place between the Ministry and the National Police and how it will follow. The reason I can't promise anything here today is that when I put so much emphasis on the need for a police assessment, it is important that it gets in. I can give you a lot, but I find it hard to give a police opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131833	Thank you. So the question is closed. There's a new question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131839	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131841	What considerations does the Minister make on the occasion of the Supreme Court's ruling of 18 January 2018 that it is not contrary to the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations that persons who have been deprived of legal capacity under the guardianship law cannot vote for the election of the Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124131859	Thank you. As can be seen from the question, last week the Supreme Court delivered a ruling on the right to vote of persons who have been deprived of legal capacity under the guardianship law. Paragraph 29 of the Constitution expressly states that persons who are not authorised shall not have the right to vote in the Folketing. And the electoral law is designed in accordance with the Constitution. It is therefore clear that, in order to be able to vote for parliamentary elections, it is necessary not to be subject to legal guardianship with the removal of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on The Supreme Court held in its judgment that persons deprived of legal capacity under the guardianship law must be deemed to have been deprived for the purposes of the Constitution and therefore they do not have the right to vote in the Folketing. The Supreme Court has also established that the current rules do not conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights or the UN Convention on Disability, and the government naturally takes note of the Supreme Court's ruling. When the Supreme Court finds that the current rules are in line with the Constitution, it confirms the Government's view that it would be contrary to the Constitution to amend the electoral law so that persons who have been deprived of their right to vote. It will therefore be necessary to amend the Basic Law if persons who are under the age of guardianship must have the right to vote in the Folketing. I understand from the announcements in the media by the lawyer who brought the case before the four applicants at the Supreme Court that they will bring the matter before the European Court of Human Rights. I therefore think it is too early to start considering possible political action on the occasion of the judgment before we have a final decision from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132041	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132043	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party attach great importance to the Constitution. But what has also come from several lawyers is in relation to the guardianship law. It is of course the case that the current rules in the guardianship law for the withdrawal of legal capacity are such an all-or-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Either legal capacity is taken away from all economic conditions or it is retained in full. The scheme does not then allow persons whose protection needs can be met by, for example: to limit their rotting on certain assets or in certain circumstances so as to enable them to maintain their legal capacity in part. In Sweden, a friendly arrangement has been established, and that is why I should like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister intends to amend the guardianship law so as to make an intermediate solution which is not contrary to the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132142	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132143	Thank you. I am not an expert in the guardianship law, and it will go too far here in such a question-answer to go deep into it. I think we should just think very carefully before we begin to change things too much in this way in order to understand that, on the way there, there are also less intrusive measures, such as: supportive guardianship and other things. I think it is really important to say that when we have these rules that we have, it is also a guarantee of legal certainty for the group of people who come under this law, because otherwise they might be ripped off of everything they own and have in a very short space of time. So it's such a balance between protecting and of course also helping these people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132228	The question also arises as to what initiatives the Minister will take. Will the Minister undertake work in the Ministry so that you can look at the guardianship law, including in relation to what can be done within the constitution? For the Constitution we must abide by, and that is the way it is. But are there other options for finding a solution, including whether to look at Sweden or take other initiatives? That is what the question is all about: what does the Minister intend to do if we are to give more people with disabilities the right to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132306	Thank you. This applies to approx. 1,850 people in Denmark, and that can be serious enough for the individual if you have a desire to vote for a parliamentary election. The reason why I am not so jumping into saying that then we must have looked at the guardianship law is that I really want to clarify fully whether the judgment given by the Supreme Court in relation to the Constitution and the provisions that are is keeping all the way to the Court of Human Rights. This does not, of course, exclude the fact that we can sit down and have a thorough discussion about how the guardianship law is compatible today and whether it is appropriate. Of course, I would always like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132343	I would like to hear a little more about how we can clarify this. Will the Minister take the initiative to set a work in motion in the Ministry of Justice, looking at it here, in relation to how we can ensure that the Constitution is respected and at the same time look at whether we can find a solution? Although one has been deprived of one's economic legal capacity, it may well be that one can vote for a parliamentary election. Today we see that there are many who find it difficult to control their economy. Why don't we take a look at the Luxury Trap program, which runs on TV3. So what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that more people with disabilities can vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132429	I would like to say that I would like to have a discussion with the questioner about where we are today, and also about where the questioner sees the problems, and to have a talk about it before we even start anything. As far as the 1,850 people in Denmark who are currently covered by this law are concerned, there is a really, really long way to go before you get there. You're protected by a lot of guarantees. It is not, of course, the case that we are just being baptized from one day to the next, and I think that is part of this debate. But I'd be happy to have a cup of coffee and talk to the questioner about this before we move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132509	Thank you. That concludes the question. There's a new question for the Minister of Justice. It's from sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party, and here we have a fellow questioner, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132521	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132524	Thank you. What will the Minister do to ensure order on Motalavej in Slagelse Municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132533	Thank you. Now I have to start by saying that I cannot explain the specific circumstances on Motalavej I am in doubt about the pronunciation if I am to be completely honest with Korsør. It's gonna take me to get some information from the National Police Department. Having said that, however, I would like to address the general issue, since I do not know the specific one. If, as a society, we see trends in criminals trying to set the agenda in an area, we must, of course, take tough action to curb the behaviour of criminals. When, in particular, we see incidents of violence, assault and other crime that threaten the safety and security of ordinary citizens, we must, of course, react. That is why I am also pleased that we in the government are putting the finishing touches to a challenge to tackle the problems of parallel societies. It goes without saying that there should not be anywhere in Denmark where you make your own rules and look big on the laws of the country. I am, of course, looking forward to getting the work done and coming up with the initiative, because it is evident to everyone, I think, that a new approach is needed in these areas. If they are young people, it is of course particularly important that early and firm action is taken so that they can see a clear consequence of their actions, and that is why I am also looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations on the issue of juvenile delinquency. That is how I can answer now because, as I said, I have not had the opportunity to obtain more detailed information, but now that we have finished with the questions here, the questioner could also send it in writing so that I could give a slightly more detailed account of the situation in Korsør.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132723	We are happy to send it in writing and thank you for the short answer. If I have raised this question today, then it is because there are a whole series of stories about what is happening in this area, and I do not think we can live with that. I do not think that we can live with situations where municipal home care has problems driving out and helping our citizens or where a hotel was previously completely destroyed. That's not gonna work. We cannot have a situation in which the law and the law of the country are completely nullified. Over the last few years, there have been different stories about what has happened in this area, and it has to be said that something is absolutely wrong. One thing is that a situation may arise in which some troublemakers find themselves in an area, and of course one has the expectation that the police will intervene against the situation that the social authorities are intervening and that the municipality will intervene, that a large number of different authorities will intervene and put the situation in order. But when you repeatedly over a very long time see that this seems like something that has run completely out of control and out of the hands of the local police, of the municipality, of the authorities, I actually think we should get the question back, because that is of course not working. So my question here in this round is really: on the basis of all the stories pending from Motalavej, will the minister do something separately to ensure that the police circle out there gets a greater focus on this area, so that you get a more visible police, hopefully also so that the home help can drive out without being assigned, and so that the citizens out there can be safe again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132905	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132908	I have no other wish, I think, than the questioner, but I cannot say here what I will do until I know the reality. I am glad that the questioner says again, because it is true that we remember that a while ago it was a lot up and the police got it just like it was my impression was in any case a dampener on this, and now there has, I understand, been something again. If we are to look at home care as an example, it is quite unacceptable for public employees to be attacked just because they are doing their job. That's crazy. That is why we also tightened up the respect package, that is to say the penalty for assaults on public servants. So we have made some penalties in this regard, but now it will give me the opportunity to ask the police and find out what the situation is out there, and then it is clear that we should act on it, of course, we should not just look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132956	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124132959	If the respect package is to work, it also requires that we get the necks of some of these people who are disturbing municipal home care and ensure that home care can work under proper conditions, or that our elderly can get the help they obviously deserve, and in any case it will require that there are numerous police in place to ensure that there is security in such an area. When I raise this question, it is actually because we fear that we are heading towards Swedish conditions, so I would really just like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister going to bring for now? The fact is that we have had this issue up before, and I do not think much has happened since last time, to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133034	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133036	I do not agree with that. I mean, something happens all the time. Something happens all the time, we see that our police are around everywhere. Of course, they can only be one place at a time, a cop cannot duplicate, and the cops have certainly had a lot to do. After all, we have just agreed that we are now educating even more officers. We can't use people we don't have. That's why this is gonna take a while. I think we are very well on the way, but I would really like to know what has been going on out there. How many episodes is that? And then I agree that we should take action against it. I also need to find out if it has been notified, because it is also important that this is reported so that we can come after them, because of course we have to go after them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133118	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133124	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to sign for the Minister's attempt to give a full answer. I think the Minister should also try to look a little further back than just for the Minister's own term of office when it is given the opportunity to do so in the Ministry. Because it's easy to find numerous examples... both back in 2004, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2014 and so on. It has been done back in 2004 and 2005 that a new comprehensive plan for Motalavej has been drawn up. We had to make a major redevelopment of the area, it should be a more inviting area to live in. They were invested in renovating all apartments; they became up-to-date, they were made inside and outside maintenance and improvements, they made new entrances, and they also changed the colors of the housing blocks. And then you tore down some of the unnecessary ones, and then you got the new balconies. But all these housing policy environmental measures have not really done anything. I would like to ask the Minister if there is anything else that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133233	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133234	Yes, there is. And I have to say that somewhere I am very proud of the absolutely amazing trust there is, to my mental capacity, and what I can remember and manage and manage. But I have to admit, I don't have it all entirely present. But what the questioner is at least right in is, in my opinion, that we can make all the physical changes we want. It may be part of the solution, but it is not the whole solution. We also need to look at what kind of a resident composition there is and what kind of a mindset you have between your ears to say it as it is. Because you can do enough about physical things, but if you retain some strange thoughts and attitudes about how to live and society should be, then you just contribute to making things even worse. Therefore, when we come up with the game of parallel societies, it will of course also be something that addresses not only the physical • I think it is clear to everyone that the physical also matters • but also the approach to people who live there and who lives there, how to live there, how to get out of there and how to behave. It is much wider than that, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133344	Thank you. And then it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133346	Of course, what we are talking about here is the external environment. But the ability and will of the people who live there to conform and be part of Danish society and then legislation and sanctions, if they do not, also require effective and visible police action in the area so that the executive officials can feel safe when they drive in. Today a home helper cannot drive in the area without at least two in the car. I think it's awful, to put it bluntly. So what do you do from the police? Yes, in many places you lay down the running patrols, for example. in Frederikssund and Helsingør and they are centralised etc. This is something that will subsequently be approved by the National Police Commissioner. Does the Minister think that this is the right way to do it, that we get fewer places with running police patrol cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133436	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133437	Then we got all around. In fact, I believe that we must do more to bring the police closer to the citizens. And that's the kind of thing I've set out to look at here this year. And how do we do that? Now there is a discussion in North Zealand at the moment about where there should be exits from. This is a matter which is currently being consulted. Now we'll see how it ends. However, I fully agree that there must of course be a police presence. That is the whole prerequisite for that. And now I hear this with the home workers; I will just see if it can really be true that there are two people driving in a car. It's not gonna last.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133516	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133525	Thank you. I know they used to drive a number of home helpers in the cars in this area, so there's some evidence that you haven't improved anything compared to this problem. It is just the same problem that continues, and the root of the nettle is still not being grasped. So I would just like to end by asking the Minister if it was perhaps not time for you to sit down with the Danish People's Party and look at what you could do in order to inter alia. This area got something more close to the police that could ensure some security out there, so they don't have to drive any more home helpers around to look after the elderly who are entitled to care.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133603	I think we're talking about that all the time, so maybe not right here, but generally about what we're going to do. At least I think we need to have a talk about what we want, for example. As soon as we strengthen the police. Because the questioner and I know of both of them, of course, about how big a move is on resources and how many places something extra needs to be done, and then of course we need to have a debate on what priority should be given to action. But that there should be police presences, and then, especially in the areas at risk, there can be no two opinions on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133633	Thank you. The question is closed. But there is a new question by the same questioner to the Minister of Justice, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133644	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133646	Thank you. Will the government, like the Danish People's Party, legalize pepper spray for self-defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133658	As indicated by the press release issued by the Ministry of Justice today, the government wants to increase the security of citizens by allowing the possession of pepper spray under special circumstances. In general terms, the government proposes that people who have a special need, for example: persons who are threatened by a collector who has previously exposed them to violence or persons who are subjected to stalking may be allowed to wear pepper sprays by the police. In addition, the government proposes that it should be legal to have pepper spray in your own home, which can be used for self-defense, if you like. We're gonna get hit by a home invasion. At the same time, it is proposed to tighten up the penalties for the illegal possession of pepper spray for persons who have previously been punished by a sentence of liberty for example. violence or threats. When the government does not propose the complete legalization of pepper spray, it is due, among other things, to the fact that the police have pointed out that a wide spread of it in public spaces can lead to more and more serious violence, and in addition, the police consider that there is a risk that pepper spray will be used against the police and other authorities, for example. in connection with demonstrations or other disturbances. But I hope from this background that the Danish People's Party will support the initiative of the government today. I know we now have a motion for a resolution tomorrow, but I do hope that this for the Danish People's Party will be seen as a step in the direction that the Danish People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133826	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133827	Thank you for your answer. Of course, I can only welcome the fact that the government is moving in this area and that it is at least moving in our direction. We don't get everything we want with the government's proposal, but we get a really nice way out of the way. One of the things I know the government has worked on after we have tabled a motion for a resolution in the past is that of foreign experience. Because there are a number of countries that are comparable to Denmark, where it is used here and where citizens have access to it, and even in a more liberalised version, than the bourgeois-liberal government in Denmark is up to, and of course I am curious about that experience. Now I happen to live close to our southern neighbour, Germany, and it is my impression that this is going on completely out of date. There is something people are happy to have access to, and it is something people are happy to own, it provides some security and, moreover, it has not caused such enormous problems. So I would just like to ask the Minister first of all about the foreign experience which the government has, after all, tied up with all its arguments: what has happened? Perhaps the Minister can say something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124133941	Thank you. I can do that very well. We have gained experience from 12 European countries and that consultation shows that there is a different regulation of pepper spray in those countries. It can be said in general terms that one half has a restrictive licensing system, while the other half does not require authorisation. The legislation we have in France is very similar to the one we are proposing now. In Germany you can buy it and have it on you, but it is only allowed to wear pepper spray if it is for protection against animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134016	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134017	We have, of course, when the government puts in place the restrictive regime, the desire for the more liberal, free regime in this area, and what I just want to hear from the Minister in this round is whether we are going to have a proper evaluation. In other words, one could imagine that after a few years it is at least my impression that many Danes have taken advantage of the scheme. They have bought it and are happy to have it, and then I really do not think we will have such great difficulties with it, and then there will probably be a desire to extend the scheme further. Is that one of the things the government is going to try to do, in other words, evaluate it with a view to extending the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134055	Now we haven't written the bill yet, and we come out with the thoughts we have behind it. But I think it makes inescapable sense that when you introduce this, which is something completely new, you evaluate it and say: okay, what has been the experience? I think that would be a very sensible thing to do. I have been very careful about this whole legalization, especially since we have just had a police force which has been so overloaded with work in a gang war pending, and I would like to see a pepper spray of this kind found on them to be punishable, and they should not be able to have it on them. That's why I think it's the right step we're taking right now, in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134130	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134132	I agree with that. Gang members should not have pepper spray, they should not have access to it. I would then like to ask about the group that is allowed to wear pepper spray in the public room, and there the Minister mentioned that, for example. could be stalking victims. Has the government fully established what criteria should apply to people carrying it in public spaces, or could it also be imagined that it could be people who were threatened or people who had a job that was very close to the citizen and who could also be under pressure along those lines? How determined have these criteria been?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134206	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134209	Now I can see where the questioner is going. I mean, we're not gonna start by introducing this by opening up a huge barn gate, where everything will then be allowed, but I think we should take it seriously. Now I mentioned women who are threatened by a sexual partner who has subjected them to violence, stalking and so on. There, of course, we need to find the right cut, but it should be such that it is a system where the police can say: here are some people for whom it makes real sense that they can carry it in their bag when they are out. But it should not be over a wide circle. Now I think we are taking the first step, and then I am quite sure that we will have the opportunity to discuss this many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134249	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134258	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134259	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that the Master's degree programme for doctors is not filled by foreign students who leave the country after completing their studies, as stated in the article published in Altinget on 5 December 2017: •Every third medical student in Odense is from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134318	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134320	Thank you for the very topical question. It is true that at the University of Southern Denmark a number of students with a different background from a Danish bachelor in medicine are admitted to the Master's degree programme in medicine. The pattern of admission seems to apply primarily at the University of Southern Denmark and therefore not at the other universities with an education in medicine, respectively in Copenhagen, Aarhus and Aalborg. One of the explanations may be that part of the medical students between the bachelor and Master's degree in recent years have moved from the University of Southern Denmark to the capital to complete their education. At the same time, it is true that foreign students will be transferred to the Danish labour market to a lesser extent than Danish once the studies have been completed. Overall, this is not a wish scenario. Therefore, the government is working on a new model for the future dimensioning of admission to medical education. The new model must support that more students in the medical programme complete their education in the same place as it begins. At the same time, this will mean that fewer students will be able to walk between the different universities during the course of the medical course. It also provides a slightly better planning horizon on the institutions, and it should support that more students also settle in the same region, for example. Region of Southern Denmark, after studies. I expect clarification in the near future and will therefore be able to return to the questioner there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134447	Thank you. I think that both the Minister and I agree very much that there is a shortage of doctors around Denmark. There is also a need to ensure medical coverage everywhere in the country. On the same day, as there was this article in Altinget about the medical students in Odense, there was an article that said that the University of Southern Denmark wanted to have a Master's degree in Esbjerg because there was a need to get more educated out there. So it is in this that the traffic we can see there is about students who probably start their education in Odense and then, as there is spare capacity in Copenhagen, choose to move there and take their education there. I have also noted that the progress report on the medical coverage agreement described that the government is working on some measures. I think a little bit: what are these measures? Do you want to tie the students up? Will it be ensured that students cannot be admitted? I think we need some clarification on what these actions are really about. Are they about saying you can't change in the middle of your studio? Is this about saying that you have to commit to being a certain place in your entire education? I'd like to hear a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134613	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134614	In other words, I have also noted the same approach, and whether it is true to say that if you increase admission in a particular place, but this does not lead to an increase in the number of doctors, but that people are just leaving the country anyway, we are equally far off. Therefore, there will be no idea in the model, it might be one that is desired. That is why, firstly, we are discussing at the moment the question of the number of people admitted to medical school as such. Secondly, we are fully considering a model in which, yes, you are locked to complete your education in the place you start, so that you do not see the upsets that you have seen here at the University of Southern Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134700	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134701	One of the things we often discuss in the field of education is bachelor labour markets. One of the things you can discuss in this context, when you look at the medical course and that is one of the reasons why you can easily change is that we have it divided, so you finish your bachelor's degree programme and then have the opportunity to find a place where you have the opportunity to be admitted to your Master's degree programme. It is probably the same thing that happens with the foreign students who come here. Then you could imagine a solution to what was all about saying that we are making it into a single education, that is to say that you are not first completing a bachelor's degree, but that you are being admitted to a single medical master's degree from start to finish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134742	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134743	I simply do not dare to say whether this will be a solution to the problems we are discussing here. But now that the questioner has raised it, of course I will take it with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134753	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134754	When I raise it, it is also about the challenge of completing a bachelor's degree in medicine without there really being a labour market for it. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister could not agree that it would make a great deal of sense to say that we see medical education as one general education. In this way, we can ensure that it can be planned as a long process, and we can ensure that we get through what we have to do, and we can ensure that when you are admitted, it is one specific training that you are admitted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134838	The questioner and I have often discussed a more demand-driven model in the field of education. I certainly can't rule that out that I think is a good idea here. However, the scope of the view and the question that doctors should also be used for things other than health care makes me think that we should consider very carefully whether that is exactly what we should be resorting to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134906	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Health, and this is by Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134917	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134919	The question is: what is the Minister's position on examining the possibility of a specialist training in palliation? i.e. the soothing care to strengthen efforts in an area where it is important to dress more health professionals in the inevitable encounter with the terminal patient, so the dying patient and so that these patients and their relatives receive the specialized and correct treatment and care from the start of a course of treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134955	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124134956	Thank you for the question. I fully agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that we have a great task in ensuring that patients and their relatives experience a high quality of palliative work in Denmark, and this requires us in Denmark to have skilled doctors who can take care of palliative patients, and that also requires doctors to have sufficient skills in this area. But I also think we have to say that it requires that doctors also have different specialized competences in addition to the palliative, so that they can also deal with the general treatment of patients, both up to and during the palliative period. At least that is what we have emphasized in Denmark, where palliation has been approved as a subject area. This means that trained specialists in a number of fields can become so-called field specialists, where they have some specific skills in palliation. This is, of course, one of the first specialist subjects to be approved here in Denmark, and this means, for example, in relation to the pediatricians or the clinical oncologists or the geriatics, depending on whether you are a cancer doctor or a doctor specialising in the elderly or a pediatrician and thus know both the patients, but also the disease picture that is and the characteristics of the disease of the patient group that it allows them to handle the palliative treatment of patients, while also having a specialized knowledge in that field. This, of course, also requires doctors in the relevant specialities and in all regions who are taking the field of training in palliation, and I think it has to be said that there are places where the regions and the professional environments also have to ensure that there is support for vocational training in this area. So it is my immediate opinion that there is no need for a separate specialty, because I think that the way we have organized it today, when it comes to specialist training, has some advantages over the fact that you are only specialised in palliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135208	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135209	It is true that this is a subject they can choose after they have taken specialist training, and that is precisely what is a challenge. We have some doctors who become doctors because they want to work with palliation, working with dying people, no matter what diagnosis they have. They have to go through a full, long course of specialist training; that is to say, they choose a specialty just to choose something, but unfortunately it is so, or rather it is good for them that they can then stick around, but there are also some who are looking abroad for this particular training. So instead of making it a specialty where they were also out in all other areas, because of course they were, it could be a solution to some of the challenges we have. We have 100 trained specialist specialists, and that is not enough to cover the places that are needed. At the same time, we have an ageing population and we know that there are very many people who would like to be allowed to have a good end and a dignified end at death. So that should be something you look at in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135319	Thank you for the question. We are constantly looking at this and, like the rapporteur, I am very concerned that we are ensuring proper palliative action in Denmark. After all, we have also followed up some of the initiatives with the cancer plan IV. There the Danish Health Authority has recently prepared new professional recommendations for the palliative action. Work has also been started on updating the programme for rehabilitation and palliation, where the main focus is on how best to organize the effort, because we can also see, also on the figures, that there are many who today have a desire to die at home but who end up dying in a hospital it is also in relation to ensuring that there is the outgoing palliative function and support that needs to be. And, of course, we have also jointly allocated money to children with life-threatening diseases, where we also attach importance to the palliative effort being made at home. So I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is an area where we need to follow closely and where we also need to keep an eye on the adequacy of capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135407	Thank you, that is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135409	Well, in the Danish People's Party we have always had the focus that we should have the hospice places that are needed, and I think that we still need some. But I am glad that every year we can set aside money for hospice, whether it is the regular hospice that we know or it is the children's hospice that we have just set aside money for. But we also know very well, and it can be seen from the new recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, that there are challenges coming out in the municipalities where you need the specialist knowledge and interdisciplinary cooperation that must be between the region and the municipality. So a Master's thesis could help to get even more focus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135446	As I have been informed, we have chosen, including in the other Nordic countries, to take a joint training initiative in this area, where it is a subject area, also in accordance with the rules of recognition. It is not the case that there are other countries which have an education which we recognise in Denmark and which are independent specialist training. And it's based on this thinking that it's also important that you have specialist training in a variety of fields that you then build palliation on. I fully agree with the questioner that, of course, we must keep track and also look at whether the organisation is right and whether there is sufficient capacity in this area. In fact, I also think that the political agreement we reached back in September on palliative sedating and increased self-determination for patients in this way underlines a broad political interest and a desire to support a dignified death for more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135540	Last question and last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135541	There are just some challenges. I have spoken to specialists in other specialities, and in fact they do not have much about palliation throughout their education. And it's weird when we think that when it comes to our health, death hangs very close, whether we are talking about lifestyle diseases, cancer or other diseases from which we can die. At the same time, we know that many more come back to their own homes. Yes, I know there is the Nordic education, but there were nine Danes who were admitted, although there were 29 who applied for the education. There are countries that have a special education and there are more and more coming. So I'm just saying, let's go ahead in Denmark and get a thesis set up, so we can also live up to the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, which we don't do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135625	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135627	Well, we have to follow this area closely and also assess whether the capacity is sufficient or whether there are some forms of organisation where we can seek inspiration from other countries. But whether it is a thesis or a field thesis, we have to be aware, as the questioner also says, that meeting death is a broad facet of being a doctor and a health care professional in Denmark. I think that is also in the political agreement that we have made, namely that we need to have greater and broader knowledge and also in the new guidelines made by health professionals in general, so that you are not in doubt when you are out with the dying or the next of kin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135702	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister for Health from Mrs Liselott Blixt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135708	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135712	Thank you very much. TV 2 is currently broadcasting a program entitled "Can you eat yourself well?" which is an eye opener for many. Will the Minister look at how we can get the diet and nutrition experts more into play as treatment instead of medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135728	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135729	Thank you for the question. We know, as the questioner also says, that healthy food, meal habits and exercise play a major role, both in terms of our health and also in terms of our well-being. And we also know that a sensible diet and exercise helps to ensure and promote good health and helps prevent a number of diseases. That is why what is both part of the TV 2 programme in question, but as such is broader: awareness of it here, is extremely important, even when we talk about prevention policy, even when we talk about health policy. One of the examples in the programme is about a diabetic patient, which is why I really think it is worth mentioning that, in the new national diabetes action plan, we have just given priority to greater focus on both diet and exercise. And there also has to be a greater focus on the fact that the individual, in cooperation with the health care professionals, chooses a treatment strategy, also if you come as a diabetic and have to find out: What is the strategy that is really right for me? So I fully acknowledge and agree that the dietary perspective is extremely important, both for the quality of life of the individual, but also for society as a whole, when we talk about health and well-being. We have far too many deaths from lifestyle diseases in Denmark, and we also know that both the issue of obesity, but also malnutrition, when we talk about the elderly, or when we talk about girls who are particularly at risk of eating disorders, is one of the things that leads to more treatments in our health care. And that's why it's important that we focus on it. We have set up an advisory board from the government across a number of ministries with Lars Kolind in the lead, which will just make recommendations on how we think this in a new way across ministries, from the Ministry of Food to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Health and the Elders, because we want to prioritize it here. And we have also set aside 40 million. kr. over the next 4 years to strengthen the focus on healthy eating habits and having a culture in Denmark that is about healthy food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135953	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124135954	The Danish People's Party has put a great deal of emphasis on nutrition, particularly in the areas mentioned by the Minister, whether in the cancer action plan when it comes to the medical patient or now in the diabetes trade plan. But this broadcast shows exactly how eight Danes with different chronic diseases come up to the doctor, and with the doctor they either get medicine or something else. Why is it that we do not also have this with the fact that you can be sent to a nutritionist who follows up on it? Here it is 12 weeks when some of them get rid of their diseases completely. Some people get rid of medication. We provide subsidies for medicine, but we do not give much subsidy to a nutritionist unless you are in a special group.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140036	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140038	Well, that's kind of what we're focusing on, and we've also asked the advisory board to deal with widely. We've set aside 40 million. kr. to like being able to follow up on the recommendations that come from the advisory board. It is because we, too, from the government, have a desire not just to think of this as health. This is something that goes against if it is to work, from a Ministry of Food, which is very much about healthy food, to a Ministry of Children and Social Affairs and a Ministry of Education, where it is also about what habits children have founded from the start, and of course also into a health and elderly perspective. We also had a Marienborg meeting this autumn, where we focused on it and where the whole question of exercise on prescription was one of the things that we among other things. discussed with voluntary association life it was one of the ideas that came out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140123	I just think that it is always the case, when we discuss prevention, that the only thing that comes up is smoking and exercise, because there you can tell people what to do, and then it is people's own fault. Because it doesn't cost money for politicians to go out and say: We just put the cigarettes under the counter, you don't smoke, and then you get healthier; or to say, "You just have to run 5 km every day, then you lose weight, and then you get healthy too. Because that's not always what it takes. It is also diet and knowledge. And with all the advice we're bombarded with every single day, this is exactly where we have to look at it. The question is also whether we should not do some studies in it, so there was some evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140157	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140158	I think knowledge can always be good. I also think it is important to get the various sectors to talk. That was the reason for setting up the advisory board with Lars Kolind in the lead: how can we turn this into a change in culture, which is both about healthy food habits and about the culture we have when it comes to everything from food? what is healthy, and what is not healthy? For it is also basically about some habits, that is, that we make eating not just a one-man activity, but something where we like to grow the quality of it. And that is one of the things that I hope they will be able to follow up widely. After all, there are both health professionals and food professionals in that group. And then the approach is very much that we need to look at it more multidisciplinaryly. We also do that in relation to bmi and being overweighted, that is to say that we are not just saying surgery, but that we are also saying food and exercise, and that we need to see it broadly and not just from an angle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140257	Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140258	I can't wait for them to come up with the playout, and I hope there are some of these things with, and not just the hitting people in the head, because that way you don't get interested in dieting or changing your life. So my final question will be: when can we see the report they are making?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140315	An answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140317	But the advisory board, which goes across ministries, must make their recommendations here during the spring. And then we have already set aside 40 million from the government. kr. to follow up on the recommendations, also because we did not want there to be a waiting period in the intervening period. It is widely anchored in order to also create this cultural change in the field. Then there is the partnership that lies in the diabetes action plan, which I think is really important if we are to move away from being beaten on top of our heads, and that the dietary advice is the kind of thing you feel you are being imposed, that we are seeing more patients' associations, relatives' associations and food actors together, just as we are focusing on what healthy food can mean for well-being and health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140352	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140400	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140404	Thank you very much, President. The question is this: does the Minister intend to call the parties of the Folketing for discussions on how we can jointly strengthen efforts to ensure that our children and young people start smoking by introducing a tobacco subsidy which the shops may be deprived of in breach of existing legislation, as proposed by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140424	Thank you for the question. Children and young people should not smoke. As simple as that, I actually think it can be said. That is also why, as a government, we have an objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. If we are to achieve that goal, we must have a great many players who do their part. From the state side, we have set a framework. We have among other things. a ban on tobacco advertising, warnings on packages and a ban on the sale of tobacco to children and young people under the age of 18. In this respect, the law is clear, because it is clear that tobacco must not be sold to children and young people under the age of 18, and that legislation must be kept. Unfortunately, we have seen that it will not be enough. That is why we have also now taken the initiative to transfer the task to the Security Council, so that they monitor the sale of tobacco and alcohol to children and young people in the future. This is a significant improvement in this area, which I am also convinced will push further towards cultural change. Then, as a government, we have also entered into a partnership with the retail trade to ensure that we support both the supermarket chains and the smaller merchants and kiosks in bringing about a change in culture so that children and young people also know that they can neither buy cigarettes nor have to buy cigarettes and that, of course, the retail trade is fulfilling their regulatory responsibilities. I will take stock of the partnership shortly and, as I have also said to the questioner in a consultation, I would very much like to invite the parties of the Folketing to discuss how best to ensure compliance with the ban on the sale of tobacco to children and young people as soon as we have taken stock. In addition, we will have to have a debate on smoking legislation, because the transfer of the task to the Security Council will also be based on a political debate. So yes, I intend to call the parties of the Folketing, but I also think it is important that we take stock of the partnership before we meet, so that we can follow it up as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140616	Here you go, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140618	Thank you, Minister. I am very sorry that the Minister says that things must be completed and evaluated in the partnership before we can have a discussion on whether a tobacco subsidy should be introduced, as we have just proposed in the Social Democratic Party. The reason I am sorry is that this is the absolutely greatest health problem for children and young people in our country, and therefore I just do not think there is any time to waste. I was therefore very pleased that the Minister for Health in Politiken on 18 January this year endorsed the Socialist initiative to introduce a tobacco subsidy which the retail trade could be deprived of after having been fined for violating the ban on selling tobacco to young people under 18 years of age. It is something that lies above and that, if they simply get the authorization, they lose the right to sell tobacco. There the Minister for Health said she was open to discussing the proposal to grant tobacco subsidies. Now I can just hear from the Minister that the Minister is not ready to discuss it now. This is something that needs to be pushed to later. If there is something I, as the health rapporteur, am impatient about getting done, it is that we are getting hold of some adjustment options to prevent the retail trade from breaking the legislation so much, as the Minister says is ready to do, namely that the retail trade is not allowed to sell tobacco to young people under 18 years of age. But we know that this is very much happening. So is it quite clear that the Minister does not intend to discuss this here before taking stock of the partnership part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140801	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140802	Well, I'm going to invite Parliament's parties to a discussion. I say that in that article, and I have said that in consultation with the questioner. In addition, the government's initiative to transfer the task of enforcing the ban to the National Security Agency is also something to be anchored in smoking legislation. In this context, I have also said that it is welcome that other parties, including the Social Democratic Party, also think in terms of ideas. That does not mean, of course, that I have said in that article in Politiken that it will be completely that system. I have said that I am open to discussing these matters, including whether our legislation is tough enough if there are repeated violations of it. It would be perfectly natural to include it when we meet. I say that what I also think would be natural to discuss is what the status is for the partnership, because it is perhaps also important to include it when we discuss the transfer of the task to the Security Authority and other things related to young people and smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140859	Does the Minister of Health agree with me and the Social Democratic Party that smoking is the absolutely greatest health challenge in Denmark for children and young people? Because if the Minister agrees with me and with us on this, what can there be of things in the Minister's calendar that are more important than that and that are of concern to the Minister and that the Minister does not already call next week for a discussion of initiatives which, overall, can help to reduce the amount of tobacco among children and young people and, overall, can help to ensure that the retail trade will take much greater responsibility than what they are showing today? Because there are statements from the Politiken, and it is also from COOP that shows that there is an incredibly poor discipline in respect of compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124140952	That is why the partnership is important, in other words. After all, this is not just about tightening up the supervisory part, which is what the government is doing, with the transfer of the task to the Security Board; it is also about the parties taking on a greater responsibility. The whole achievement of the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030 presupposes that responsibility is taken from many places. It is the vocational school where the canteen sells cigarettes, it is the municipality where it is about how it organises its policy in this area, it is the individual workplace. It is also, of course, about how we organise the supervisory task, where we have said from the government that we want to transfer it from the police to the Security Council, because we think that the police have a lot of important tasks to deal with, and there we can see that the Security Agency is already coming into the stores much more than 1,000 times a year, and there we think they can tighten up enforcement in this area. So it is a great deal to give priority to this area, because children and young people should not smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141044	I would very much like to ask again and it may well be that it is the Minister's enthusiasm that did not give the Minister an answer, but: Does the Minister agree with the Social Democratic Party that smoking is the biggest health challenge in Denmark for children and young people? I can figure it out. The minister himself has calculated in his answer to me that the Danish Health Authority estimates that 44,000 young people today aged 11 to 17 will die as a result of the smoking pattern in Denmark. 44,000 Danes are equivalent to 2 of the pupils in each school class with 20 pupils. Does the Minister agree with the social democracy in earnest?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141125	It could also be that it was because there were a lot of questions in the last round. I would like to reply to the part which concerns children and young people. When the government has an ambition that we should have a smoke-free generation by 2030, it is because we do not want children and young people to smoke and because it has a lot of other implications than just health implications. And the figures that the rapporteur read out also reflect that if we do not have a change in the culture of these children and young people, and if they do not sign the smokes but just continue to pulsate, it has some very, very serious health consequences, and we as a government are aware of them. That is why we have set an ambitious target for a smoke-free generation, which is why we have also taken some initiatives in this area, most recently this initiative to transfer the supervisory task to the Security Board, where we will also discuss the legislative issues with the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141212	Thank you. The next question to the Minister for Health is also by Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141219	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141221	Thank you, President. And the question is: does the Minister believe that it is a sufficient strengthening of the enforcement of the ban on selling cigarettes to children and young people under 18 years of age, that the Security Agency is only given two new years' work and, moreover, is not given any other tools to carry out control of the tools that the police currently have and which the police find insufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141242	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141244	Thank you for the question. The enforcement of the rules has not been strong enough in this area. I think the questioner has noted that, and I have noticed that. Many of the media have also noted this, and we have also had the opportunity to discuss this in great detail in a consultation in the Committee on Health, including that part of the supervisory board which is about checking whether those who buy are below or above the age limit, and that is not necessarily the easiest part of a supervisory task. That is also why, as a government, we believe that enforcement should be strengthened where it makes sense in practice, and that is why it is not just a matter of two years' work. We are simply taking advantage of the fact that the Security Authority is already in the supermarkets, in the ice-cream shops, out there with the small merchants, where they already have control over tobacco in a number of areas, in durability, in snuff, in location, and when they are out there over 1,300 times a year in advance, we believe that it makes very good sense that at the same time they also control sales and when they talk to the owner, manager or employee behind the counter also come around how they ensure that tobacco is not sold to minors. In this way we get very much visible control for quite a few extra resources. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that if the Security Authority had not been out there in the shops in advance, it would not be many years' work, but that is not what is happening, because it is additional resources that are added to a task that is being carried out today. In this way, we will have a much greater scope for supervision and enforcement than we are today, and by exercising real supervision in this area, I also believe that we are sending out a strong signal that the rules we have in this area, namely that tobacco should not be sold to children and young people under the age of 18, must be respected and that there is also supervision in this area. So I really do not agree that the tools are not sufficient. It is, of course, a practical organization of the task. On the other hand, I have a great deal of understanding that the police have a lot of tasks with everything from gangs to break-ins, which is why I think it is an important part to move supervision to the National Security Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141459	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141501	Thank you, Minister. The Minister says that the Minister does not agree that the tools are not sufficient. No, but I have noted that the police have in any case said so, and we will also have an opportunity to discuss this in an open consultation next week with the Minister and also with the Minister for Justice, in order to try to clarify exactly what may be needed. The minister says enforcement is not good enough. No, it's definitely not good enough. Last year, 2017, only two fines were imposed in this area. It was the same year that Coop in 650 of their own stores did control, where their own control showed that in 40%. children and young people under the age of 18 were able to buy tobacco. The policy conducted a survey in 221 stores where it turned out that in 60%. It was possible for children under the age of 18 to buy tobacco. So the Minister is absolutely right. Enforcement is really bad, and the retail trade does not meet political expectations at all. That is why we have also said from the Socialist side that something needs to be done about this. I have also noted that the Minister has said this and that the government has said it, and I think it will be exciting to have a discussion on it, because here the government and the Social Democrats agree that we must make a significant strengthening. After all, we have said that, in addition to the tobacco allocation, we are going to create a control unit and we have set aside 20 million. kr. to this because we really want there to be a real high risk of retailing being taken if they do not comply with this legislation. Now it is a question of whether the Minister believes that the new initiatives and the two added annual work will provide a sufficient capacity. After all, the Minister says that there are 1,300 visits per year to all the retail shops, kiosks and other places where supervision is carried out by the Danish Security Agency, and I would like to ask the Minister: Would the Minister not also acknowledge that the tasks of the Danish Security Agency are still going to be done by the Security Authority, plus that this control of tobacco is now to be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141717	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141720	I think there are two parts to this in terms of how to use resources in the best possible way. Is it to build a new control unit where everything has to be built from scratch, as the Socialists propose? I do not think it is. That is also why the government is proposing a different model. We propose to transfer enforcement to the Security Agency, which is already in the stores, last year more than 1,300 times. Adding an extra task also ensures that we get far more money than the two years' work, when you focus on everything from durability to snuff, to focus on this task too. We therefore believe that we will have a range far greater than the two years' work. So it is also a question of using resources in a sensible way and also of saying that some of the people who already have supervisory powers in this area can also carry out an additional task in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141815	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141817	My question here today also deals with the tools that the Security Board should be able to use. Is the Minister planning that the National Security Agency should have other new tools besides those used by the police today? That is one question. The second question concerns what the Minister says about the fact that it is a question of using resources properly. Yes, as parliamentary politicians and politicians in our country, we must always ensure this, but it can be said that if the Minister thinks that this is the greatest health risk for children and young people in Denmark, it is to add two years' work as far as the government can get into the ambition of strengthening control?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141904	Excuse me, but the party to which the questioner belongs did not have the power of government for four years, and the answers to this also from the Minister for Justice in relation to fines and enforcement do not show that there was very strict control and that a lot of fines were issued, because that is kind of what the questioner gives the impression, that it was much better in the past. Why didn't the previous government move this task if you thought smoke was the biggest killer and you didn't think enforcement was good enough? We didn't do that. And I hope that the Social Democratic Party will support the model in which we move it to the Security Council, because there will be a political debate on it, because it needs to be anchored in relation to tobacco legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141947	Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124141948	I do not understand that attack by the Minister for Health at all, because if some did not show any responsibility for children and young people's health related to smoking at all, then in 2012 all the bourgeois parties did not vote in favour of a change in the smoking law, which among other things. A significantly higher fine was imposed. We thought at that time that raising the fine would be preventive enough for the retail trade to adjust. We can see that now that it is not, and we have been following it very closely since 2012, and that is why we are making a proposal. The government is also making a proposal that they have probably been prepared at the same time and come not as a result of each other, but only at the same time. That is why I would like to say that I think the Minister must swallow up and see that the criticism of the then Socialist Government has nothing on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142042	Last answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142043	I would just point out from some of the answers which the questioner himself refers to, that it was not, of course, because this was the case with fines imposed by the previous government. As well as the questioner, we have found in the government that there is insufficient enforcement today, and that is why we have come up with a proposal in which we move enforcement over to the Security Agency and also add additional resources in this area, but also build on the capacity that is already at the Security Authority. We do this to ensure that as many shops as possible are reached and supervised. The Safety Authority was already in the shops and retail trade more than 1,300 times last year, and we therefore expect that this will ensure a much better enforcement of the tobacco rules that exist and also ensure that the retail trade complies with the rules that are in place to prevent tobacco from being sold to children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142131	Thank you. That concludes the question. Before we move on to the next question, I should like to inform you that they under No. 16 and No 17 questions put to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, Question No. S 431 and No S 432, by Rasmus Prehn, is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The questions will be answered next Wednesday, 31 January 2018. This means that the questioner who is right after may have to be aware of being a little earlier in the Chamber I say so and hope it can be heard out in the house. The next question is to the Minister of Education by Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142216	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142221	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what is the Minister's view of the decline in the number of mentally ill who receive an education, cf. the article • Less mentally ill receive training • from 29 November 2017 in the Worker, and how will the Minister ensure that youth education is equipped to provide young mentally vulnerable with a good education course and thus avoid apostasy on education, especially at a time when we see a trend towards an increase in the number of mentally vulnerable in the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142251	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142252	Thank you. I look with great concern at the development of the number of citizens with mental vulnerability in general and at the VIVE study, which shows that the number of pupils and students who do not complete an education is increasing. I do not know the specific study from VIVE, so I cannot go into the figures given in the article in the Working Party. However, we know from our own mapping in connection with the 2014-2016 rate pool project that among pupils with mental difficulties and development disorders there is an increase in the number of pupils with mental impairments that receive special educational support to help complete an education. The increase in the number of pupils and students with mental impairment has contributed to the fact that the Ministry of Education has launched several development projects for the target group in 2017. The aim is to create an evidence-based knowledge base for guidance on inclusive learning environments and SPS. In the Ministry we follow developments and constantly focus on how to ensure that young people carry out an education. In December 2017, I have decided to launch an impact study on SPS with a particular focus on implementation and retention for the large groups of beneficiaries in the schemes, including pupils with mental impairments. The study will be initiated in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142410	Thank you. And here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142411	Thank you. It is the case that one of the results of the study shows that there has been a decrease in the number of young people taking an education, and these are young people with greater mental disabilities, i.e. schizophrenic, bipolar, bipolar, bipolar, biodepressant young people. There is simply 53 per cent of apostasy. So from 2011, where we had 51 percent. of the group which took an education, that figure has fallen to 35%. in 2015. The causes of apostasy include: sickness, lack of support, stress and depression, and then the new various changes that have been made to the education system make the same demands for people with severe mental disabilities as for other pupils. Many of these vulnerable citizens can't handle that, and they end up falling away. This will have major consequences for them, both in private and in general, socially. Firstly, they do not complete their education, which means that we are losing a group of citizens because there is no special, perhaps more tailor-made education for these young people. Their links with the labour market are also getting much worse, and in the end we will have citizens who are completely isolated from the outside world. So that is with the concern about the chain of consequences that I am asking the Minister for Education. I think it is a good thing that the Minister of Education is starting a survey of SPS, as I understood it, this year, but if you were to look at it in general from primary to vocational schools and upper secondary education, are there any concrete things that the Minister might already be able to look at and turn on and that could make it easier for this group to stay on the courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142613	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142616	Thank you. Focus on what you may call early school lecturers in other countries now you can't use English in here, but it can be difficult to explain in other ways that we in Denmark haven't followed up very well. That is why I have launched a study which already looks at how it can be that a considerable proportion of pupils are not going to take the 9th grade examination at all. That's where we gotta start. It is, of course, a student group that is very different, but it is important to start by putting in already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142655	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142656	It is good that the Minister focuses on the high drop-out rate compared to young people in the 9th grade who do not take a final examination. But here we actually have a concrete brand-new study that shows that there is a huge problem in relation to some of our most mentally ill and vulnerable groups, i.e. a drop-out rate of 53. So the figures are there, and the arguments and the reasons are there too. Is that something the Minister would like to try to work on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142724	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142725	This is certainly something that I have a focus on, so what to say is the general possibility of upper secondary education to accommodate different types of pupils, including mentally vulnerable ones. The fact that youth education provides a secure framework, a predictable environment that is open to young people, where they feel seen, and where some adults are walking again, is important for this group, but it is actually also important for the broad group of pupils, and that is something that I have a strong focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142802	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142804	Okay, so that means that the minister will respond to the results of the figures shown by this report... survey? And will the Minister perhaps initiate some kind of action on that basis, so precisely the dropout rate among these young people with severe psychological problems is minimized, so you can get these young people to stay on their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142831	The minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142833	As I started by saying, I am based on the figures I know and not on the figures contained in that report, because I have not had the opportunity to study it. So I simply cannot answer that question. I have a general focus on how the young environment is for this group, but also for many other young people who need security, frameworks, clear adults in their youth education and predictable requirements. Then there is the whole particular challenge for this group, and I just can't get into it in these three seconds, but it's a very big challenge that requires a somewhat bigger and deeper debate than the one we can deliver here in connection with a section 20 question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142917	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the tax minister by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142924	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124142929	Thank you, Madam President. What can the Minister say about the government's assessment of the case that two waterworks from Hjørring and Hvidovre have just lost in Østre Landsret as a matter of principle on behalf of a large number of major water plants and waste water companies, which are now being sentenced to pay over a number of years a tax bill of a total of 36 billion. kr., including whether the government will exempt the general water supply from full or partial tax liability?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143002	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143006	Thank you for the question. The case concerns the valuation of the value of the assets of the water companies, a value which is used as the basis for future tax depreciation and which therefore has an impact on the future tax payment. According to tax legislation, the inventory is to be made at the commercial value. It is not a new one, but a general principle that includes all types of companies and not just water companies. In its judgments, the Østre Landsret upheld the fact that the water companies have not demonstrated that the valuation of SKAT is too low. On the contrary, Østre Landsret says quite clearly, as I understand it, that the valuation principles applied by the water sector do not lead to a true picture of the value of the assets. Whether the water companies want to have this tested at the Supreme Court, I don't know yet, but the Østre Landsret says that SKAT's estimates within the framework of the legislation in force are very lenient, so that the judgment could in fact be more square than it is and that SKAT's estimates could in fact be tighter. Does the sentences then mean that water consumers will have an additional tax bill of 36 billion. kr., as sir. His Kristian Skibby is mentioned in his question? To that I have to say: no, that is not the case. This is certainly not the case if you choose to set up your water business, which all other companies want to set up. It depends entirely on the decision of the individual waterworks in relation to the volume and financing of their investments and, in particular, the pricing of each waterworks vis-à-vis customers. If, moreover, this is done and instead of demanding too much money from customers to finance future investments, the investments in which interest costs are deductible could be significantly reduced. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that in recent years the total tax payments made by water generators have been between 100 million and 100 million. and 200 million kr. Every year, and we have no expectation that it will change if future investments are financed by debt absorption instead of overpriced by consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143222	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143223	Thank you. I acknowledge the Minister's answer to the question. But I'm still a little more nervous than the tax minister is, after all, in relation to what consequences this could have for the Danish water sector. Perhaps this is also the reason why the players in the field share the frustration and concern that the Danish People's Party has in relation to this at least. After all, it is an indisputable fact that when the new Water Sector Act was adopted back in 2009 after the preliminary discussions that were held in the Folketing, also in 2007, the clear objective was to ensure that consumers were provided with cheaper water, and it was also cheaper to have their waste water processed taxably. With these judgments, at least there are signs in the sun and moon that it will not be cheaper, but that it will be considerably more expensive, and that, of course, is where I feel the urge to ask the Minister about the reflections that it may give rise to on the part of the government in relation to the ruling that came last week in the Østre Landsret. Just in my own home municipality, Hedensted with 46,000 inhabitants, you have a deferred tax bill of 375 million. kr. distributed among the 46,000 inhabitants. If on average two people live in each household and the companies do not have to pay anything, then it is 16,000 kroner. per household in the gross tax, which is why we are not talking about pennies. There are also others who have said that it is about a hit on the bag • 1 000 kr. per I am therefore of course interested in knowing what the government will do in concrete terms. I am well aware that it is not possible to act on the basis of a judgment, and perhaps it is also a judgment that is being appealed to the Supreme Court. We do not know that yet, but I just think that the previous government of the tax minister's own party was criticised for not having started these negotiations to close this case. Perhaps the same could be said to the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143437	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143439	I don't think that's quite right. As a matter of fact, I have with my good colleague, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt held a meeting in which the conciliation circle was convened, I think it was a year or a half ago, to discuss this proposal independently of the judgments, and what we opened up to there was, for example, one year or a half ago. to discuss the size in relation to when a water plant is taxable or not. There's a limit to how many cubic meters it is and where I think that both Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's party and my party, when the agreement was discussed back in 2007, were of the opinion that the cubic metre limit should be placed higher than where it was laid. So that is one way of doing it, but the whole conciliation circle must agree with it. As I said, in relation to the figures, I have no reason to challenge it, as Mr. His Kristian Skibby says. But my point is that if a water company instead of financing future investments by demanding extra money from consumers borrows the money from the bank, then the cost of borrowing the tax credit is deductible, and then you can reduce that tax debt and get into a situation where, if you plan properly, you will not pay anything significant in tax, and then it will not be DKK 1,000. per consumer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143547	Then it's half a minute to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143548	It's a different schism in this, that you really say to the Danish water plants, both municipal and private: Well you just have to make your investments in new pump systems etc., in new sewage treatment plants and everything else, if it's the waste water part, and you just have to do it for borrowed money, then everything goes much better, but that thing about saving up needs to be sanctioned for. After all, it is an old and good and healthy custom that we have had in the Danish waterworks since they started with joint private waterworks in Denmark, it is before both of us were born that we did not spend the money before saving them. And that is what we are really making a bad solution to, I think, with what the Minister is asking for, namely that you just have to borrow the money and then use it in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143635	Half a minute to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143636	That is the way you run business today, that is to say, of course, you use equity if you have it, but otherwise you go out and borrow loans. After all, you do not go back to the shareholders or to the owners and say that they should contribute more money. And that really helps to keep water prices down. In other words, if you choose the model suggested by the Treasury, which would mean that there is no tax bill of 36 billion. kr., the price for consumers will be lower and the tax payment could be minimized. Then there can be a challenge with whether you can freely determine what the price should be on water. And the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate is looking at whether there are any legal obstacles that will allow you to reduce your tax payments as the questioner wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143724	Thank you. Then that is the last half minute to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143726	Thank you. In connection with the creation of the Act and also the subsequent renegotiation in 2015, as the tax minister also briefly mentioned, it was clearly and unequivocally stated that this was not a matter of a net revenue in the Treasury. This is supposed to be a so-called revenue-neutral system which would benefit the environment and benefit consumers' prices. We can then see that is not the case now. If it were, and was intended to be, revenue-neutral, will the Minister not help simply to make it so that we take out and exempt the general water supply in whole or in part from tax liability? Because then you'd sort of solve the problem in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143807	Thank you. Then it is the final half minute to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143809	At any rate, I would like to give the questioner the undertaking that the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate and I will convene the circle of parties behind the 2007 Water Sector Agreement to discuss the handling of this issue. Then one of the things you can put on the table and like having a discussion about where the limit should be for when you are taxable or not. However, it is a sound principle that, in a self-sustaining company, you have an incentive to finance your investments instead of demanding money from consumers. If you demand money from consumers, you will certainly not see in some places in the area of the questioner that some of those who sit on the board have an interest in getting a big money tank. And it is not economically viable and fair to consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143858	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13, and it is also for the tax minister, and it is also for Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143909	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143913	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the adoption of the new Water Sector Act in 2009 offered consumers cheaper drinking water and cheaper waste water treatment when the result now shows several years later that the reality is massive tax increases and a tax calculation model from SKAT, which is in direct contradiction with the law's description of the values included in the equity capital of the new companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143938	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124143939	I understand, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby asks the question, and I really think it is a fair question to ask. I can't answer that as a tax minister. After all, it was an agreement that was concluded in 2007. If I am not mistaken, Connie Hedegaard was the Environment Minister at the time. I have asked in my own ministry to what extent the Treasury was involved in the issue of tax liability then, and as far as I have been informed, the Treasury was not involved. That is why I cannot tell you whether what happened back in 2007 is in line with good administration or otherwise. I understand that the question is being asked, but I cannot answer the question. The questioner will have to ask in some other ministries, and then someone will have to go into hidings and find out what was actually presented to the politicians then, versus what happened afterwards. I can say that it is my clear opinion that it was no wish that a lot of money should be paid into the taxation of the water sector, which is why I am also pleased that the analysis that was subsequently decided back in 2015 that the Ministry of Taxation should do, and which was completed in my time as Minister of Taxation, shows that if you plan your investment and do not demand too much from consumers, but instead finance investment, you can minimise your tax payment so that we do not get anything in, but that the tax payment is at the level it is today, namely 100-200 million. kr. Then it is always a political possibility, as the questioner mentioned in the last question, to say that the sector should not be subject to tax. Then you have to find that money somewhere, but it is certainly an opportunity, and if the Danish People's Party comes and demands it in the meeting that I and the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building will hopefully hold in the near future with the conciliation circle, then we will be discussing such a proposal with open eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144129	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144130	Thank you. I am, of course, a little surprised that a minister cannot answer whether it is bad or good administrative behaviour as a minister. A law is made which states in the calculations that it should be revenue-neutral, and then it now appears quite many years after having an estimate of 36 billion. kr. on the gross tax, and then you cannot explain whether it is good administrative practice or bad. Then I would like the Minister to respond to something quite different from this. Now the minister himself said that we just have to find the money. Does this mean that the Finance Act, where the tax represents a significant part of the revenue, operates with a certain income from the Danish utilities on water? I would like to know how much money it is then calculated to spend elsewhere. Then I would like to ask the Minister something that I also think is quite fundamental, and that is in relation to the fact that in 2015 we made a change to the conciliation that was in relation to the Water Sector Act, and it was, of course, that the limit on which water plants could be exempted was increased up to 200,000 m3 of pumped water per year. Could one imagine at least increasing it so that more of the private water plants could be exempted? The next thing is whether the Minister thinks that it is good administrative practice that there are a lot of consumers who do not get this bill for all the water plants that are under 200,000 m3 of water in pumping per year. But if you happen to live and own a property somewhere where they pump up more than 200,000 m3, then you have to have this charge. It is, of course, to make a marked difference between one consumer and the other that you are being sanctioned and punished because you happen to live in Juelsminde, where you are covered by it here, but if you live in Tørring, where I live, which is located in the same municipality, you are not covered by it. Is that fair to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144321	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144322	I do not think it is fair that the state should make a lot of money on the taxation of the water sector. That is not the case today, and I do not know how anyone has calculated this figure of 36 billion. kr. I don't recognize that at all. The revenue which the state, as I know, receives overall for a very, very large water sector is currently between 100 and 200 million. kr. I guess that money is in the Finance Act and goes to finance some other things. If you have to change it, you have to find some funding, and if the Danish People's Party demands it in the conciliation circle, you have to discuss it openly and constructively. I'm happy to go into that. I am also happy to enter into, as I said in my previous reply, the discussion about raising the limit on when to tax and when not to tax, from the current 200,000 m3 to something higher. My own party has argued at the time that the amount should be higher, so it is natural that I should go into that discussion constructively. The fact that there is a difference is something we have chosen politically. So I can't do much about that, but we can politically choose to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144428	So that's the questioner, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144430	Thank you. I just took note of the Minister's statement that we should find the money. Then I think the Minister should also explain how much money is expected to be paid from these Danish waterworks. I think that would be very interesting to hear. Then it is also the case that many of these private or municipal companies are listed with what is called deferred tax bills. That means that it's a bill you've been pushing in front of you since these things became apparent to many, that is, there was this discrepans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144507	Minister, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144509	Yes, it is true that you have pushed a tax bill, and that is precisely because if you choose to finance your investments in the water sector by taking into account debts, you have an interest expense and you can simply deduct that interest expense from your future tax payment so that you get into a situation where you do not have to pay tax. You can't get money back from the state, but you can minimize your tax payments. And that will be my clear call to the supply sector: that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144537	Yeah, that was half an answer. The minister also got a question about this 200,000 m3 limit for water. There are some who are covered by the legislation, namely those who pump out more than the 200,000 m3 while those who do it below that limit are not. It's such a service information. Is the Minister prepared for us to look at these limits? I know that we were some parties trying to set the limit higher, but since then another majority has also been reached at Christiansborg. Then I know that there is also a settlement in this area that needs to be looked at. But is the Minister in favour of taking that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144615	The minister for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144616	Well, I actually tried to say that, and I would like to repeat that I am, of course. In other words, it has been the declared policy of the Left, I think we argued that the limit should be 500,000 m3, and I know we have not changed policy in this area. Now I'm going to talk to my colleague, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, when we're going to hold this meeting together. But I could not imagine that he was of a different opinion on this issue. So we are happy to enter into that discussion and then, by common help, we must try to convince some of those who were opposed to a higher limit, because, as I said, there is a conciliation. Sometimes you may be upset about this, some years after a settlement has been reached, but then you have to take advantage of the opportunity to terminate a settlement before the next parliamentary elections. But until then we have to work within the framework that is there, and there I am sure we can create a situation, no matter what has been convicted, where the water companies will not pay too much tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144708	Then the question is closed, and we thank the Minister for Taxation and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of It is for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and it is proposed by Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144720	Mrs Christine Antorini has the floor for the reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144724	Thank you so much. What initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that the state assumes responsibility for coastal protection in North Zealand now that the Minister of Finance agrees that the state also has a responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144737	The Minister of Response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124144740	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the questioner. It is commendable and a good example to follow that the three municipalities of North Zealand are working together to carry out a coherent coastal protection effort on the whole of the Zealandic north coast. With a number of initiatives, the government wants to support this and similar projects across the country by making it easier for municipalities and citizens to adapt to climate change and to protect their buildings and land from flooding and damage caused by climate change. Part of the initiatives are included in the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2018 and in the 2018 Finance Act. The Danish Parliament has just adopted a draft law amending the provisions of the coastal protection law, so now citizens and municipalities are given greater freedom to choose coastal protection methods. However, it must also be easier and quicker to obtain permission for coastal protection, and the government will soon come forward with another bill which will bring together the task of granting permission from the country's municipalities. In addition, the government has allocated a total of 15.9 million. kr. over the next four years to strengthen flood prevention and coastal erosion and to provide guidance to municipalities in the area. These are measures to strengthen the basis for municipalities to establish cost-effective holistic solutions for coastal protection, thereby helping to increase the number of holistic solutions. All these initiatives will also benefit the municipalities that are in the process of dealing with the challenges, such as: The coastline in North Zealand provides. The starting point of the Coastal Protection Act is that if a landowner wants to protect his property coast, it is the landowner's own responsibility to make sure that he pays for it. This also applies when the state is a landowner. For large coastal protection projects involving several landowners, municipalities have the possibility to require landowners to contribute to the financing. This also applies when the state is a landowner. However, the decision of the municipal council to implement an overall solution must be based on objective criteria, and this also applies to the financing, and the allocation of costs must be based on an objective estimate of the protection or other advantage enjoyed by each landowner by the measures. Finally, I must say that, in relation to the specific case on the North Zealand coast, I am aware that the Danish Nature Agency does not want to be involved in projects which aim to protect nature from nature on the grounds of maintaining the natural dynamics as a predominantly positive factor for the management of state natural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145001	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145003	Thank you for your answer. So, what is the dilemma when we look at the coastline on the north coast is that the municipalities have some coastlines, and there are some private pilots, let's just call them that, and then the state has a piece of beach in between. And what's hard when you do coast protection is if there's a piece like in between. Because the sea doesn't care where we find out politically that these coastlines should be, and that's why we need a joint effort. Here we have the advantage of three municipalities joining together: Halsnæs, Gribskov and Helsingør. And I also noted with pleasure, because I asked the Minister a question about the fact that if there were a request from the three municipalities, the Minister would not be opposed to a discussion. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister for Finance was visiting during the municipal election campaign in Helsinge, where he said that he could see nothing but that it might be possible to find a solution where the state also went in. But now the Minister chooses to lean on the Danish Nature Agency, which would like to have the wild nature, although the municipalities would like to have a common agreement on the coastline. So it will be very useful for the further process whether the Minister agrees with the Minister for Finance that this should also be done by the state and that there is an opportunity for discussion, even if the Danish Nature Agency does not wish to do so at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145117	Thank you for that, President. And also thank you for the follow-up question. Well, I agree with the Danish Nature Agency in the relationship that the Danish Nature Agency has put forward in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145129	Is the Minister's answer to be understood as meaning that the statement which appeared to be in the first answer to me when I asked the Minister a question, namely that one was willing to discuss with the three municipalities whether there could be a common solution, is not something the Minister wants? In other words, it would be wasted contact from the three municipalities if a discussion were to be held with the Minister to secure the coastline?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145156	Thank you for that, President. Understandably, I would always like to discuss with municipalities if there are cases involving us, it would not be wasted for the municipalities to turn to them. But my starting point is that I also agree with the statement made by the Danish Nature Agency. That is why it is not for us to go into a project. But I would always like to hear from three mayors who may have a view they would like to make to me as a minister. After all, dialogue only improves if it is conducted on both sides of the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145229	The questioner, last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145231	It must also be understood that what Finance Minister Kristian Jensen promised during the municipal election campaign, namely that the state would be positive about going into it, was apparently purely municipal elections. Because it is not something that has any significance at this stage in relation to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145248	The minister, the final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145249	Thank you for that, President. Since I am the Minister for the Environment and Food, I am the one who is drawing the line around these projects, and the line I have outlined today is the government's position on those projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145302	Thank you. That concludes Question No 14. We thank the Minister for the Environment and Mrs Christine Antorini. We move on to Question 15. It's for the Minister of Culture and has been asked by Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145313	Mr President, we have the floor. Daniel Toft Jakobsen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145320	Thank you. Can the Minister elaborate on his position and that of the government in the announced sale of TV 2, including whether or not he has now changed course and decided to go for a minority sale of 49 per cent. by the company, as reported out by the ruling party of the Left Media Rapporteur, Britt Baker?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145338	The Minister for Culture to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145340	Thank you for the question. After all, it is clear from the government base that the government wants to sell TV 2. However, the prerequisite for us to put TV 2 for sale in full or in part is that the legal proceedings currently in progress may be legally fenced or shielded from any buyer. The government has not yet established how the media issue presented here in a short space of time will look, and thus not exactly what a possible sales process around TV 2 will be like. Right now, we are awaiting the Commission's response to the incantation of legal proceedings. If it turns out that we cannot contain these trials, then we really do not need to discuss any more, because that is not possible. If it turns out that we can, we need to have a discussion, first in the government, before we come up with our media initiative, and then, of course, in the political debate on the media agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145433	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145438	Thank you for your answer. The reason I ask is that we in the Social Democratic Party are genuinely interested in what the government is thinking about this and what the government really wants. Because, as the Minister himself says, it is stated in the government's constitution that TV 2 is to be privatised. In December last year there were so many reports that now you would actually like to sell just 49%, so that the majority was kept in the hands of the state, and then there was an article about a week ago, when the rapporteur from the Left, Mrs Britt Baker, has been referred to to make the announcement that it was actually now going to sell just 49%. That is why we would just like the Minister to confirm or deny that the government has found out what it really wants. Because you're quite right that that obviously requires you to be able to contain this. Because it is true that if you cannot do so, there will probably not be any sale of either one or the other. But if you can, it might as well be that the government had an idea of where you'd rather end up. However, I understand that there are some discussions to be held before it has been fully realized. In the Social Democratic Party, we are opposed to the sale of TV 2 as a whole. We're open to see if you can get some capital in by selling a part of it. However, we believe that the majority of TV 2 should be kept in the hands of the state, because we believe it is the best guarantee that we can have a TV 2 also forward-looking, also in many years' time, which has many of the qualities that TV 2 has today, for example. in relation to Danish content etc. Does the Minister not agree that if you sell the whole of TV 2 there is a great risk that we will have a completely different TV 2 from what we know today, for example? with less Danish content?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145629	I am, of course, pleased that the Socialists are very interested in what is going to be in the upcoming media game. I think there are a lot of people there, including the Danish media industry. But, as I said, the government hasn't settled on its media game yet. It will come in a short time, and it will then be clear what the government is proposing. What is going to happen to TV 2 depends entirely on what kind of premises you put in in relation to what is being offered for sale. The reason why you want to get this whole process going is that we live in a tiny country where we are not very many people, and yet the state owns two large mediemastodontes. That is the one issue in it. This means that we have massive state ownership and support in relation to a media market, and that is a distortion to which the bourgeois government does not wish to contribute. On the contrary, we want to rectify. The second thing about it, when we haven't settled yet, is that of course there are advantages and disadvantages associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145734	Thank you. But how does the Minister feel about this with Danish content? Does the Minister share the view that I have and that the Social Democratic Party has that it is important that there is a lot of Danish content and that it is a quality? As the Minister also says, we are a relatively small country and it is important that we have proper, factual news and also Danish drama production etc. Does the Minister share the basic view that this is important? And if the Minister shares it, would the Minister not agree that it is best to ensure that the State continues to hold a majority of TV 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145818	I certainly do not agree with the latter. It is not the case that because something is state-owned or state-funded, it has the best quality. I mean, private media in Denmark deliver a lot of excellent content. So I do not share that premise. I think we should bear in mind that it is not the case that because the state owns something or finances something, it is per. definition well, or that if private providers develop something, it is per. definition poorly or untrustworthy. This is simply a wrong premise, and we have to take it beyond that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145848	The questioner, last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145850	Now the Minister has to correct me if I'm wrong. But I guess TV 2 isn't funded by the state today. I guess it's advertising revenue and subscriptions that finance TV 2, as I understand it. It is true that there are certainly Danish media providers, etc., which in reality will be very safe at least more secure than other possible buyers of TV 2. But is there any way of securing who it is? If it ends up selling the whole of TV 2, which I understand is still an option, then you have any chance at all to make sure that it is the buyers you want to buy it rather than those you are not so comfortable with, for example. opportunity to ensure that it is a Danish buyer? Now the Minister is talking about many good Danish bids for groups and media providers that could take over TV 2. But do you have any way of ensuring who is actually going to buy TV 2 if you choose to sell it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145943	The minister for the final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124145944	Clearly, it would be contrary to EU rules if we were to say in advance that it is the media group or the media house or the private investor who has to buy into TV 2. It must be an open tender. But it is clear that in such an invitation to tender one can consider which premises are added. There is one more point to which I would like to draw the attention of the questioner, and it is true that TV 2 does not receive state aid at all, but it is state-owned. But the fact that TV 2 can finance itself is an additional argument for putting the station for sale. The last thing I want to say is that I believe that TV 2 will need massive investment in the years to come due to digitalisation, the development of the media market, etc., and there may well be a private investor who was a better owner than the state, who certainly has many things for which it would like to spend money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150037	Thank you. That concludes the question. We thank the Minister for Culture and Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Then we can see that Questions Nos 16 and 17 have been clarified, and that is why we are moving on to Question No 17. 18. It's for the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing, and it's by Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150056	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150058	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that the Vejdirektoratet has a responsibility to implement noise reductions so that residents along the Silkeborg motorway will have maximum noise pollution as stated in EIA statement 303 for Kombilinien from 2006?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150115	Please send a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150117	Thank you for the question. The Road Directorate has been responsible for implementing the project as specified in the Construction Act and the related EIA statement. I also note that the relevant EIA statement is the presentation of the improved Kombilinien project no. 333 from 2008, i.e. not no. 303. The Silkeborg motorway opened in 2016, and it was a major road project that was planned and built over a long period of time. For such large projects, there may be conditions which need to be adjusted on an ongoing basis for the completion of the project. An example of this occurred after the construction of the motorway, where a number of neighbours unfortunately experienced more noise than was expected. Against this background, the Road Directorate carried out new noise calculations of the completed road system and considered that some additional measures should be taken on parts of the eastern motorway to reduce noise. I note that the Road Directorate has initiated the initial planning of a total of three noise reduction measures. The three actions can be carried out within the project's grant and the framework of the Construction Act. I am aware that there are requests for further noise protection on the western part of the stretch, mainly at Buskelund, where there is a new residential area. To this end, the Vejdirektoratet has stated that noise protection at Buskelund is not considered to be covered by the Construction Act when the Municipality of Silkeborg local planned the residential area at Buskelund in 2006, knowing that the motorway would get close to that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150249	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150250	Thank you. The reason why I am asking about EIA statement 303 is that it is the one that is the foundation in 2006, when Silkeborg Municipality decides to create a local plan where you develop a residential area in Buskelund. What then happens later is that we get the EIA statement no. 333, which is the basis of Law No. L 110 as of January 2009. But what is consistent is that the noise expected at that time will come from the Silkeborg motorway is much less than what can be seen in the figures of the Road Directorate itself is the reality after the motorway has been opened. What is the problem today is that there are a lot of citizens living in houses. In the buskelund area, the newly constructed houses are, but we drive further towards Hvinningdal and out to Funder Kirkeby to follow the motorway along the western track, there are a lot of houses there that are very troubled by noise, and this is a noise above the noise limit of 58 dB that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has set as average value. I have seen that the Vejdirektoratet is improving something on the stretch, but it is not on the route we are talking about now, but on the route through Silkeborg. I do not think that the Vejdirektoratet is finished until they have recognised that there are a number of citizens here who have built a new house in good faith, but today have an intolerable noise when they walk around their house, and there are people who have lived in their houses in Funder Kirkeby for many years, which is also today more noise-bombing than they were predicted to be with the various EIA statements from 2006 and 2008, 2009. That is why my question is this: the motorway has now been opened, the Road Directorate has underestimated how many cars are coming and thus underestimating noise, and now people are noise-ridden, and when you have made your decision in Silkeborg on the basis that there would be a certain noise level, and when you have made sure that these homes would not be affected, can the Minister not understand that it is also the responsibility of the Road Directorate to correct and reduce noise on this stretch?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150516	I fully understand that it is a bad thing to be the noise nuisance, but I also hope that Mr. Thomas Jensen understands that we need to distinguish between the different areas. In a residential area which has been there for many years, where the State decides to drive a motorway by or to extend a motorway and then the noise rises, it is the task of the State to provide noise protection because the residential area was there first. If the motorway lies there first or is planned first and then the municipality and the contractors who build etc. decide to build the residential area afterwards, then it is up to the municipality to ensure that there is a noise shield because the area has been planned, knowing that there would be a motorway or there would be an extension of the motorway. In this case, it is my clear impression that the municipality knew that there would be a motorway here before it was finally said go for the project. But it is not a political decision, and it is not a political discussion between Mr. Thomas Jensen and I, because we have to talk about this between the Vejdirektoratet and the municipality and find out what custom is, what the rules are etc., because that is not something we should discuss politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150632	When there are some citizens being run over by the state here represented by the Road Directorate I certainly think it is a political matter. Silkeborg Municipality has had this law study done that goes in and investigates: What was it that the Vejdirektoratet said to Silkeborg Municipality prior to the adoption of the local plan in June 2006? It was that the noise level in this area at Buskelund would be much lower, and also that the noise level would be much lower for the dwellings outside Funder Kirkeby, which had been lying there for a long, long time. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the state, represented by the Road Directorate, to use the money that is now in surplus from the project to ensure that we get the noise level down so that people can live in their houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150719	Well, the Vejdirektoratet and the municipality must discuss this with each other and find out, also by looking into rules and customs etc. I'm just saying that the two principles apply that if there is a residential area and the state increases noise from newly built roads, it is the task of the state to make noise protection; if the road or road planning comes first and the municipality builds the residential area afterwards, it is the municipality's job to provide noise protection if a residential area is wanted there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150754	The questioner, last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150756	I am trying to repeat: what the Road Directorate said in 2006 was that noise would be below the limit values. In other words, the municipality of Silkeborg is in complete good faith, as a local plan is adopted. Then the Road Directorate builds the motorway, and it gets an excessively high noise level, so that many, many homes become noise-ridden. I don't think it's just about whether this residential area has been there for many years or not. It is about having been in good faith, since this has been decided by the municipality, and the citizens who have bought land and built lovely houses have been taken by the Road Directorate. I therefore believe that the Minister should try to get across to the Road Directorate and ensure that these citizens have a tolerable everyday life with a lower noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150843	Minister, final half-minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150844	I am quite sure that nobody has been taken by the Road Directorate, because that would mean that the Road Directorate had a desire to cheat someone, and I am absolutely certain that the Road Directorate has not had that. But if the Vejdirektoratet has misjudged how much noise would come from the road because it is not something you can always look up in a book with an exact result on the road there is an error assessment. But whether that is what has happened in this case and whether it should have any influence on the matter, I cannot assess on a stand-by basis; it must be decided by a conversation between the municipality and the Vejdirektoratet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150919	Thank you. That concludes this question. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19, and it is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and it is also for Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150928	Sir. Thomas Jensen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150932	It is also a question of the Silkeborg motorway. Does the Minister consider that any future projects by the Road Directorate aimed at reducing noise along the Silkeborg motorway should follow new construction congestion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124150944	Thank you for the question. New plant budgeting is among other things. a set of principles on how to calculate plant estimates in my ministerial area. One of the principles is, for example, that as far as possible the budget is based on experience from previous projects. Another important principle is that a flat-rate correction supplement, i.e. a reserve, is included in the plant's estimate. The amount of this correction shall depend on how detailed the project has been examined. If, for example, a project... has only been examined at an overall level similar to what my ministry calls Phase 1 level, set aside a correction supplement of 50 per cent. This is because the uncertainties and risks at this stage are relatively high. When a project is examined further, several uncertainties will be clarified and a small correction supplement will be needed. Thus, when a project has been examined at phase 2 level, only a correction supplement of 30% shall be set aside. The principles of new plant budgeting are set out in particular: of Act 16 of 24 October 2006. In addition, there is nothing to prevent us from being inspired by the principles of new plant budgeting depending on the specific situation. I think that the principles of new plant budgeting are good and sensible. It is basically wise that the plant estimates include: takes into account the detailed nature of the project and thus takes into account the uncertainty of the project. If we do not do so, we risk seeing much more projects going beyond the budget. The budgeting by the Road Directorate of possible noise reduction projects along the Silkeborg motorway must follow the principles of budgeting projects as described in new construction budgeting. The precise budgeting, application of the correction allowance, etc. is something which, if necessary, the Road Directorate relates specifically to the size and nature of the project. If sir... Thomas Jensen has questions about the budgeting of specific projects, I would very much like to answer them, for example. under the authority of committees where contributions can be obtained from the Road Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151151	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151153	Thank you. The reason I ask is that there is somewhere between 80 and 140 million. kr., I understand, to repair things around the Silkeborg motorway. Now that some projects have been set in motion for about 80 million. I think it is budgeted for and that it is quite clear that there is also a need to do so in the western part around Buskelund, Hvinningdal and Funder Kirkeby, so my what can be said, in all modesty, is that the Vejdirektoratet has a huge knowledge about how the Silkeborg motorway is really going and how the conditions are around the trace. Therefore, the Road Directorate also knows with great probability that there can be no great surprises to find a new Grauballeman who cannot be found a new bird species or museum species or something that can cost the project. In other words, what you have to do, if you are to reduce noise, are some things that you would prefer not to have major budget surprises about. That is why I ask you whether it would not be obvious if you now have a framework of perhaps 140 million. kr. or, hopefully, more so that when you make these budgets, hopefully for future further noise reductions, you go up to that framework so that you do not finally sit and have reduced noise for 50%. of what was in the frame, and then must send 50 percent. back to the state, while at the same time there are a lot of citizens who have not had any noise reduction what they really needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151323	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151325	Well, then, the Vejdirektoratet can do nothing but follow the principles laid down by the Danish Parliament by a majority of the Danish Parliament, which adopted an act on new construction budgeting in 2006 and a majority of the Danish Parliament, which at no time wanted to change that act and its content. The Road Directorate is bound by the rules and principles laid down by the Folketing. Nor is the fact that the rules and principles of the rules adopted by Parliament should be followed is really a matter of political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151359	What I am just putting forward is whether or not common sense could be introduced into this. In other words, when you have a project where it is quite clear that there will be no surprises, just as we have seen with other major construction projects, because you have actually been through the whole area and have built something that works quite well, except for this noise, you could say politically: well, we should try to see if there is a consensus for this project that we could just make sure that all the money is spent so that we can have the noise reduced as much as possible for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151438	What lies in the principles of new plant budgeting is that when the risks become less for budget overruns, the correction reserve will also be reduced, and that is why we are dealing with it in concrete terms when we are making a budget for, for example, the budget. noise shielding at Silkeborg. So it is not true that there are some very special circumstances that mean that you have to have quite different principles for new construction budgeting around Silkeborg than you have to have all sorts of other places. I am in favour of applying the same principles in Silkeborg as elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151507	Then it is the author's last half-minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151509	Does the Minister consider that the correction reserve for any project that has just been implemented and where there is then a need to correct for example? something about noise, that there must be a very, very small correction reserve, so as to make sure that there is as much as possible that is bound to actually carry out some noise improvements that benefit citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151535	The minister for the final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151536	In other words, as I said, I would like to explain in more detail the construction of noise shields at Silkeborg than I can do here orally. But I just want to say that it is not so much about what you have of studies and what you have done in the past. It is acting, for example. that, if you are to have things in the tender procedure and have not yet received the tenders, you have a corrective reserve which takes into account the fact that you do not know what offers you are getting. And it is true, whether you have just built a motorway or not just built a motorway, that you have to, for example. to take into account what the offers show.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151612	Thank you. That concludes this question. Thank you to the Minister and Mr. Thomas Jensen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20, and it is also for the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing, and that is by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151624	Mr President, we have the floor. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for reading the question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151629	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that Amager's citizens in Dragør and on Vestamager will experience marked deterioration in public transport to finance the Letban in the vicinity of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151640	I think that the question should rightly be put to the chairman of the Regional Council of the Capital Region, Sophie Hæstrup Andersen. It is my impression that she and the Social Democratic Party have so far been hot supporters of the Ring 3 light track. I understand from the question that this rock solid support for the project is back in Social Democracy now that the bill has to be paid. As you know, the ownership circle is now faced with the final decision to launch the building after the project has been put out to tender. If the Capital Region and Social Democracy have now come to mind, they can still say no. I can also inform you that I am not aware of how the Capital Region will finance their contribution to the light track at Ring 3. This will be a local priority. However, the fact that the funding of the light rail network is likely to cost in other areas should be clear for members of parliament elected in the region as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151739	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151740	Thank you. I had expected the Minister to reply that this is not his table. That is also why I started by asking a question of opinion. I do not think that my question should be taken as an expression of the fact that the support in the social democracy or, in the Capital Region, in the broad sense of the word, is giving way, but that is what I wanted the Minister of Transport's comments on how the priorities should be and also whether the Minister might help to try to find solutions. Because, for example, it's gonna be okay. Is it such that Movia, in the recommendations that have come to the savings catalogue, says that it is difficult not to offer regional services to Dragør, which is thus the only urban community in the Capital Region of that size without railway service, and which is not served by a regional bus, then it could just be interesting to hear: Does the country's Minister of Transport share the view that it would be problematic if there are urban communities that are not covered by public transport opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151846	Yeah, well, there shouldn't be a bus to every area in Denmark if there isn't a passenger base for it, but Dragør is of course a larger municipality, so I certainly assume that there should be buses to Dragør. I am not aware of exactly what the Capital Region intends to do. This is a decision for the Capital Region. The fact is that the regions and municipalities have undertaken the task of financing the operation of the light rail network once it has been built. It is not a state task, it is not a state responsibility, and it is not something in which the Social Democrats wanted the state to be involved. It is up to the regions and municipalities to finance the operation. The region then has some reflection on how to finance operations and the like, and that is entirely the region's own decision, which I should not interfere with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124151934-2	I fully agree with the Minister that it is entirely the region's own decision. The reason I even put the question to the Minister today is that it would just be interesting to hear the answer. In other words, no decision has yet been taken in the Capital Region, and that is why there is, after all, a political fight which is mainly about geographical interests that are playing out. And that is where I would just like to have heard: what is like the attitude of the country's Minister for Transport if you choose a solution where there will be entire urban communities, which will not be covered by a bus service and which at the same time also do not have a rail connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152009	I can't relate to that on such a hypothetical basis. I am not and will not be presented with the region's traffic planning to Dragør in the planning of how to secure the economy in the light lane. It's nothing that gets into my desk at all. I can just read headlines in newspapers like any other citizen. So I simply cannot deal with this on such a superficial basis as I am being asked to deal with it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152038	The questioner for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152039	I think that is fair enough. I am convinced that the Minister will be more involved in this matter, probably not only from myself, but probably also from other members of parliament. Basically, it's all about • and the minister is absolutely right that the Capital Region, together with the municipalities, makes the choices and priorities that they have to • that the municipalities are in the cat-ache, which leads to the next question that we have that they have a rather rigid framework for how they can prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152107	The minister with the final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152108	That framework is not under my ministry and my resort, so I cannot answer that because they do not belong to me. But frankly, I think that the Socialists must take this discussion among themselves. When the Regional Chairman of the Social Democrats, Mrs Sophie Hæstrup Andersen, decides how to give priority to funding in the region, and then there are some other Social Democrats who disagree with those decisions, why not take the discussion with Mrs Sophie Hæstrup Andersen instead of taking the discussion with me, who cannot have a qualified opinion on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152142	Thank you. That concludes this question. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 21, and it is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and it is also for Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152153	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152157	Thank you. This follows on from the foregoing, and it says: will the Minister consider amending the legislation so that other sources of funding than transport alone can be included in the Capital Region and other regions when the operation of the light rail network is to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152211	The minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152214	First of all, I am not responsible for the legislation relating to the economy of the regions. This legislation falls within the remit of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and I cannot therefore comment on it. On the other hand, I am responsible for the legal basis for the light track at Ring 3. The responsibility for the operation of the light rail network and therefore the financing falls jointly to the Capital Region and the 11 municipalities which are part of the Greater Copenhagen Letbane I/S. The State is also part of the company, but only during the construction phase. This means that the State withdraws from the company when the light runway is built and the runway is ready for passenger operation. The breakdown of the costs of financing the operation of the light rail network between the Capital Region and the 11 municipalities is shown in the Law on light rail on Ring 3, according to which the region has to pay 43 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152305	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Minister is right, of course, that one part of the question will at least at some point be put to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. The reason why I have also asked this question is because if the Minister of Transport thinks that it is problematic if there is no bus service in places where there are no rail links, to what extent will the Minister of Transport help to work to find common solutions with both the Capital Region and the municipalities, so that there can actually be proper transport opportunities for all citizens in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152348	It's up to the region to do this. If the region has decided to spend its money on something else, it is the region's decision. It is not the case that if the region spends the money somewhere instead of another, the treasury just comes and fills up. Well, that's what I'm sensing on Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: Now the Treasury suddenly has to put money down where the region takes the money to the light track. Of course the state doesn't have to. The region is then an adult region which can make its own decisions. Surely it is not the case that the Treasury should constantly follow up when the region reaches conclusions, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152432	It is not the case that I have the expectation that every time the regions give priority to the regions or the municipalities for that matter, the state must come and fill up. But it is also the case that, as the Minister knows, the regions are very large in size and have very different transport needs. There is my question to the Minister as to whether he thinks that there should be no transport facilities for all citizens of all urban communities in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152458	There must be really good transport opportunities for people in this country, and there must also be regional autonomy. I must maintain that there must be. The light rail is a traffic investment that can be discussed. It is enormously expensive both in plant and operation. Nevertheless, the Capital Region and 11 municipalities have chosen that the money should be spent on what the light railway should be built, even though it is hugely expensive in both construction and operation, also much more expensive than buses are. It means something, of course. When you spend so much of your transport budget on an easy track, there is less money for other ways of transporting people. These are the decisions and priorities that a region can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152542	The questioner for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152543	I fully agree with the Minister that these are the priorities that have been set. However, one might hope that the Minister would be involved in looking at different solutions or at least expressing his position. I think that the easy track out in the vicinity of Copenhagen will be a good investment and a really good opportunity for the citizens who live there. We are just in a situation where we may not yet know it can risk going beyond the transport opportunities for people living on Vestamager and in Dragør. That is what I was hoping to have a dialogue with the Minister on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152614	The minister for a final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152616	As I said, the region and the municipalities have decided that a very large part of their transport budgets should be spent on an easy path. It's a very expensive solution. In relation to how much transport you get for the money, it is a hugely expensive solution, but it is a decision they have made in the region and in the municipalities. That decision can be made by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen discusses well with the region and with the municipalities and asks: Why do you spend so much money on a solution where you get so little transport for the money, rather than spending the money elsewhere where you get more transportation for the money? I really think that's a debate like that, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen must go with the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152654	Thank you. That is why Question No 1 has been put to the Commission. That concludes 21. Thank you to the Minister and Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 22, and this is for the Minister for the Elderly, and it is submitted by Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152706	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has the floor for a reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152709	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that by 2026 almost 40,000 social and health workers will be missing in the municipalities according to FOA's projections?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152724	The minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152726	Thank you for the floor and thank you to Mrs Harpsøe for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that it is crucial that we should also be able to attract competent staff in the care of the elderly in the future. I became Minister for the Elderly because I want to be involved in ensuring good and dignified care for the elderly, and it is my clear opinion that competent staff in the care of the elderly are absolutely essential to ensure this. So when FOA and KL's projections indicate that in the future there will be a shortage of labour for the elderly, well, that is something we must take seriously. We must and must do all we can to change that. I think it is crucial that we raise more attention to the important task that SOSU helpers and SOSU assistants solve every day in the care of the elderly, because SOSU staff in the care of the elderly are extremely skilled. This is among other things. Therefore, with the National Dementia Action Plan, we have introduced the Demen Prize of the Year. The award celebrates and appreciates the many amazing employees who work hard every day to make a difference. And the Demenpris 2017 went to Pia Johnsen Nielsen from the care centre Klarahus in Copenhagen because she helps make life a little easier for people with dementia and their close every day. In order to contribute to a better working environment, we have also prioritised 500 million in this year's financial agreement with the Danish People's Party. kr. annual to improve staffing in the care of the elderly, while at the same time strengthening efforts to reduce sick leave in the care of the elderly. The funds allocated to the area of the elderly help to support a positive development with more time and profit for the benefit of employees and older citizens. Dialogue and cooperation with KL is important in solving recruitment challenges in care for the elderly, and I have therefore also discussed the challenges of recruiting SOSU staff in care for the elderly with KL. Finally, it is also important to remember that in Denmark there is a tradition that wages and working conditions are regulated by the social partners through collective agreements which are being negotiated during these months. Here from Christiansborg we can define the overall framework in the area of the elderly. We can add extra funds and lay down rules on supervision and the like, and then we can help to talk up the care of the elderly and recognise the SOSU employees for their great efforts and professionalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152947	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124152949	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In fact, I very much agree with the Minister for the Elderly that it is important to speak up about the care of the elderly. It is an incredibly important and dignified piece of work that is being done for people who so much need your help in order to cope with everyday life. After all, the Minister mentions some positive points. The Minister mentions, among other things: the financial agreement we have made, where we also strengthen the care of the elderly. The Minister also mentions that there is a dementia prize which is awarded in order to draw attention to this area. But is there not more in the sleeve of the minister of the municipalities because we know from the municipalities that three out of four municipalities today lack qualified labour in this area, when it is that they are already facing this concern which I fully share? Well, in the Danish People's Party, we think this is deeply worrying that it is a bomb during our care of the elderly. If we do not ensure more skilled staff, SOSU-trained and socially trained staff, to take care of the elderly, then it is a bomb. We have an unemployment rate in this area, which in 2017 was down to 1.8%. And in the Danish People's Party we would just like to hear the Minister about what else the Minister has on the wish list in relation to what is going to happen in this area. Because the Minister says that there are some things that are regulated by some agreements. That is also true, but I also think that the Minister, as the chief executive in this area, must have some ideas on what needs to be done to ensure that the skilled staff are actually available, which is needed in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153140	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153141	Yes, but again we share a certain basic view of how important these things are. And one of the things that is very important and that I can see after many years out there is that we also strengthen good leadership out there. This is incredibly important, because we have a higher absence in this area than in many other places, and this may be a sign that some employees are not thriving. And that's why it's so important that we have a strong leadership that goes ahead and shows the way in this work, and also has this flexibility in relation to, among other things. working time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153220	One of the things I hear is the desire of many people to be more able to coordinate working hours themselves, which is why we, among other things, want to be able to do so. This is at least one of the things we hear; it may not be the whole answer, but what we hear is that you want part-time jobs, because you can then next to it add some temporary work. This poses some additional problems, for example. in relation to education, the possibility of maternity and also in relation to pension. So what does the Minister think about that? What is to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153256	Well, I am really, really glad that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has set aside 2 billion for the financial negotiations. kr. over the next four years to precisely upgrade any staff who are part-time and would like to have full time, or to hire some more staff, but of course taking into account what they want. For yes, it is true that there are some who want to get up in time, but in fact there are also some who want to go down in time, and I think we should have the flexibility in the individual workplace that managers are very aware of what they want as an employee. It's incredibly important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153342	The questioner for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153343	So I would just like to ask the Minister again: what else does the Minister have of ideas? For the Minister refers to a demensprise and refers to things that have been agreed in the Finance Act • good things, I think, certainly • but there must be other creative things that the Minister believes there is a need to do in order to ensure more skilled staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153408	The minister for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153409	I think we should talk this area up. We have seen how year after year it is talked about what it's like to work as a SOSU assistant or assistant. We hear all the time that it's so hard, and it's probably for some, but out in the municipalities and I've been out in 62 municipalities for the time being and met a lot of employees. I see a commitment and a desire to do some things. It also means a lot that you are allowed to work with what you feel is important. That is why I was glad to see that Karen Stæhr from the FOA also mentioned how important it is that the individual employee can work without having to think so much about all the bureaucracy, and that we who know how to trust the employees should at least have more confidence in our employees out there. They deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153458	Thank you. That concludes the question. We'll go to the next question. It is also for the Minister for the Elderly, and it is also for Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153507	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has the floor for a reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153510	Will the Minister undertake initiatives to identify the extent and cause of the problem of the municipalities with a shortage of skilled workers in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153525	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe for her question. The question is very similar to the question put back by the questioner in November to which I replied in writing. The Ministry of Employment is currently monitoring the recruitment situation in the care of the elderly, and they state that in the second half of 2017, there is a large shortage of SOSU assistants and nurses, while there are good job opportunities for SOSU helpers. This is also consistent with the fact that the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment published an analysis in June 2017 showing that SOSU assistant is one of the subjects where it is hardest to recruit new employees. As the author also refers to in question S 415, KL and FOA published at the beginning of January a joint report identifying the recruitment challenge in the social field in the municipalities. The report supports the figures we have seen in the past and shows that there is a shortage of SOSU assistants in care for the elderly and that the problem will increase in the future. The report also looks at the development over time of the number of pupils in SOSU programmes and the level of employment and absence of the employees. We therefore have a solid knowledge base to discuss, and I therefore do not intend to launch a new mapping of recruitment challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153652	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153655	Thank you for the answer from the Minister for the Elderly. I have to admit that I do not agree that there is such a solid basis for taking a position on what we actually have to do from here, because what we have got, among other things, is what we have got. from KL and FOA, are a lot of numbers, and numbers can be really, really good, but there is a need for a mapping that shows: What is among other things. the various practical problems around the municipalities that need to be solved, and where is it that Christiansborg can do something? I'm hearing, among other things. outside the real world, if you can call it that, outside Christiansborg walls, that it for example. It can be difficult for the municipalities to get SOSU students in, which can then complete the entire internship, because there is a bottom-up internship in the region in relation to the somatic area of 3 months, and there is not the same need in the regions to train SOSU staff as the municipalities, and that among other things. may be a hindrance. There is talk of working conditions, there is talk of wages, there is talk of busyness, there is talk of the possibility of planning your own working day and many, many other things. Therefore, I just have to acknowledge that this is a complex area and therefore there is a need to go into detail and be thorough in saying: what is really the problems around the municipalities, and how can we take action? This is what I would like the Minister to contribute to in relation to a dialogue with the KL in order to chart this down to the last detail, so that we not only discuss from some figures but actually discuss on the basis of what really are the practical problems that make us face this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153849	I can also inform you that the Ministry's people have been in continuous dialogue with KL about this, and I have an appointment on the calendar here in February to also talk to Thomas Adelskov from KL. This is a very serious problem and I would like to say that I take it seriously and I have a strong feeling that it is also being done in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153914	In his last reply, the Minister said that the Minister was very concerned about good and dignified care for the elderly, and I think that is a good thing, because I really feel that the Minister for the Elderly has a great warmth and love for this area. However, I have to admit that I still do not have the Minister's commitment and warmth to contribute any action as well. Because I do not think that the Minister will contribute enough action in this area, so I would urge the Minister clearly to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124153941-2	I think there has been a lot of action. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have just set aside money to lift the area: 2 billion. kr. to recruit more staff for the next four years. In addition, we have set aside 70 million. kr. to a pool to create a better working environment and get sick leave down. So I actually think that a good framework is being created from in here that will enable us to tackle this. And then we have to say that we are in fact also working with a management commission so that we can see what the leaders can do. Because there is no doubt that this is also about management out there and that we are creating a good dialogue about what it's like to be out there and that we are talking this area up. I think that's incredibly important, because the staff is our gold.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154034	Then that is the questioner for the last half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154035	It is certainly important to talk this area up, but we must also recognise that there are some very important problems that we need to address. It is basically about whether our older fellow citizens can actually have the care and care they need at a time in their lives when they may not have as much power as they have had before. There is a quality of life for the elderly incredibly important. So I would again like to call on the Minister to address this issue with action and not just with a commitment that appears in communication, but not in action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154114	The minister for the final half minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154116	I would like to say that, as Minister for the Elderly, I am happy to take my share of responsibility for this area, because it is so infinitely important. But I must also repeat that I believe that action has really taken place, for example. know that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has set aside so much money to get new employees in, and that we are making a pool to look into getting sick leave down. We also have a knowledge centre for dignified care for the elderly, which I look forward to getting very good out of, and which we have got through with the parties behind the pool. I think we're doing a good job. And yes, we take it seriously, and I also look forward to my conversations with Thomas Adelskov from KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154158	We thank the Minister and Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. That concludes Question 23. That concludes Question Time as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180124154210	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 25 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
