ParlaMint-DK_20180413100011	The meeting is open. The Minister for the Elderly has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the elderly area 2018. R 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 26 April 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100039	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100133	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100140	Thank you. The draft law, which we are considering today, is based on the fact that Danish law requires the legal basis for the recovery of unlawful State aid. In concrete terms, it is a tax reduction granted to holders of private water recovery permits by Law No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The tax scheme was not notified to the European Commission and since the Commission has subsequently judged the scheme unlawful and incompatible with the internal market, Denmark is obliged to recover the amounts of aid resulting from the tax scheme. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill as put forward, as it will allow Danish legislation to implement the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100221	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100230	Thank you. Very briefly, this simply means that we have been giving some illegal state aid for two years. Of course, we have not been allowed to do so, so we also support in the Danish People's Party that it is given the power to correct this, so that illegal state aid is not granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100252	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100303	Thank you. As has already been explained, this is about the collection of old drinking water taxes. Since it has been explained, there is no need to go deeper into it. The Left, of course, also supports it, and then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100320	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100326	Enhedslisten supports legalization.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100333	Yeah, we'll soon finish that day. Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100341	Thank you. Let us hope that the effective pace continues for the rest of the day too. I would just like to say that the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal, of course, so that we can put state aid back in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100358	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100404	Thank you. And the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100411	Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100416	It almost feels like a 2 m baton, where you can just get the baton before it has to be passed on. The Radical Left also supports legalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100425	Thank you. I lack the Socialist People's Party, but... Ida Auken Hov, I also welcome from the Socialist People's Party and say that they support). Yes, they are so greeted, and they are covered by Radical Left. Thank you. Minister for the Environment and Food, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100443	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs, to which I will take note and not make any further comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100451	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100508	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Raabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413100532	Thank you. The previous legal procedure could be completed in 3-4 minutes, but I doubt that this matter can be dealt with so quickly, because it is a much more serious matter. For far too long, the processing time for coastal protection projects has been front page material in many of the country's newspapers, and this is of course highly inappropriate, especially at a time when water levels are rising. The Social Democratic Party has on several occasions directly asked the government to take the initiative to ensure that complaints under various nature protection rules were dealt with simultaneously and in parallel, so that funded coastal protection projects with local support and with local funding could not be complained of • proposals that would mean that the important nature and coast considerations were taken care of, while necessary coastal protection projects could be set up more smoothly and more quickly than is the case today. Unfortunately, that's not what we're doing with Bill No. L 187 has been given. With the proposal, the government has chosen to extend the decision-making power to allow coastal protection measures to the municipalities. The idea is that the municipalities should include in their permit the consideration and, where appropriate, derogations from the current rules on, inter alia: the sea and river protection line, the forest building line and decisions under the Forest Law on Peace Forests and Protected Nature. That part is therefore reasonable because the overall decision of the municipality means that there can only be a complaint once against many times in the past. The measure will thus ensure that the municipality will continue to weigh up coastal protection projects against other important considerations, but will prevent opponents of concrete coastal protection projects from complaining about good and funded projects even without being successful in their complaints. That is how far Social Democracy backs up. However, when we cannot support the proposal as it stands, this is because the proposal makes a distinction in both procedure and redress between municipal joint projects, which amount to about 10%. in the case of coastal protection, and other private projects, which are by far the largest part, i.e. 90%. The joint municipal projects can be challenged to the full, so that the content of a decision by a municipality can be complained about. The other private projects, which make up the vast majority of cases, i.e. 90%, can only be subject to legal review in relation to legal matters, i.e. typically purely procedural and suspended matters in EU law. It seems to me totally illogical that the same nature protection should not be provided in private projects which, moreover, constitute the vast majority of cases that are being dealt with in the joint municipal projects. Nor can I see that the government anywhere argues objectively for the division. If not 90%. in the case of coastal protection cases, in relation to whether the projects actually comply with the protection that we provide nature with the rules of the Nature Conservation Act or the rules on protected nature, the law we are discussing today will in fact be a flagrant deterioration of nature protection in Denmark, even in a situation where it would easily be possible to provide easier and better access to coastal protection without selling natural considerations. I also note in the hearings that as diverse organisations as Agriculture & Food and the National Association of Leisure Houses and the Free Air Council in clear terms warns against the severe restriction of redress. For example: writes Agriculture & Food directly in their consultation answer: Agriculture & Food considers it extremely worrying that the amendment calls for a reduction in the right of appeal in decisions under the law. In addition, and this is another problematic situation, the responsibility for coastal protection in relation to nature conservation is proposed to be transferred from the Peace Board to the municipalities in order to ensure faster processing. Fast processing is a good idea, but transfer from the Peace Board to the municipalities is a bad and completely unnecessary idea. The Peace Board is responsible for the national conservation interests, and they have a great deal of experience of conservation and of assessing how to take account of other interests without overshadowing the purpose of conservation, and then they have considerable gravity and independence in legal matters, since they are occupied with judges of the Court of Justice. It is easy to ensure that proceedings are speeded up, even if the Peace Board retains its competence, and this can be done by allowing the Peace Board to take action in parallel with the municipality's proceedings. I also note that several government rapporteurs used Easter to attack the Danish conservation practice, which for nearly 100 years has meant a good conservation of Danish nature. I am sorry that the government is now using the coastal protection issue to continue the attack on Danish conservation practices, and I am actually really surprised that this can happen with the support of the Conservative People's Party. Securing the coasts of the country in a situation where water levels are rising is a serious problem which should be resolved by broad agreements. The Social Democratic Party believes that the state should play a more coordinating role in relation to coastal protection, but despite the fact that the government did not want to comply with it, the Social Democratic Party has contributed by adopting a large legal complex on coastal protection as recently as the autumn, among other things. Because we believe that these matters should be dealt with in a broad way. Social democracy is also willing to take responsibility in this matter, but it requires the government to listen to the objections which I think are completely reasonable and balanced in this matter. I hope that we can approach each other in committee so that we can ensure that these important issues of flooding can be dealt with widely. I think that is best for Denmark and for the citizens who need coastal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101103	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101112	Thank you. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party have looked forward to this law. We have looked forward to something finally happening in the area of coastal protection; to hopefully avoiding seeing houses crashing into the sea; to seeing people who lose their property and who still have to pay off their houses; to avoid seeing people who are in terrible situations. We've seen it a lot of places. I have personally visited people out in Jyllinge Nordmark, where the children cannot sleep at night because, when it rains a lot, they do not know if there is suddenly water inside their houses. That's why this is a day of joy, I dare say. I think it is very good that we are reaching a distance; that we are allowing for a different coast protection not only sand-feeding, that we are allowing people to actually protect their property, and that we are giving the opportunity to make one entry, to make one possibility of complaint, so that the procedure can also go faster. I know that in Jyllinge Nordmark it has been going on for almost four years. I know that there are a lot of people out there who say: why can't we make a little dike of 1 m, so that we don't have to let our children sleep at night when it rains a lot? I know that these people are delighted that hopefully they can get started in protecting their properties, and that is of course not the only place in Denmark. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister, because I think we have actually had a good legislative process with regard to L 100, which the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned in his speech, a legislative proposal which the Socialists also supported. In fact, the law has already entered into force, and now this law is in force. I think it is very good, and we in the Danish People's Party feel that we are making sure that we gather all these lines so that there is one treatment of all the lines, so that when you complain, you complain at once, of course, but you also get a decision at once, so that the authorities cannot stall. I'd say there's a little bit of knots. It is not the best, even from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, but it is a clear improvement. I think it is important to have competent and versatile advice in the municipalities. It is the Coastal Directorate which has to give an indicative opinion to the municipalities, and in this connection I would like to mention that it is indicative and that it does not need to be followed. And it has actually been important for the Danish People's Party. Because in the time I've been working on coast protection, the only thing the Coast Directorate has wanted was basically sand-feeding. And I know it hasn't really worked for the houses that have fallen into the sea. That is why I think it is very good that there is a possibility of tough coastal protection. But it also means that the guidance you need and the advice you need in the municipalities may also be from others than the Coastal Directorate. And there I hope that the municipalities will also look elsewhere, just as I hope that the landowners who come with their projects have of course also received advice from the Coastal Directorate, perhaps not necessarily, but from elsewhere. But it's an opportunity now, so I think it's really good. Then there is something about the evaluation of the bill, because the draft law provides for an evaluation after five years. And there I might like to see you look at whether you could make the deadline a little shorter. And when I say it, it is because I think 5 years is a long time if we still have houses that fall into the sea; if there are still people who cannot protect their property. So it may well be that we wish that the evaluation was after 1 or perhaps 2 years. There's something about this, too, that you can hurt others. You can't do that. And that is quite legitimate, I think, of course, that we should not create projects that could harm others. But we also know that there are places in Denmark where piers or expanded ports have been made, where it actually results in shelter erosion. And I also think we should perhaps look at the law and see if there are places where we say that if you do something like that, you should also take care of the city or otherwise make sure that the sand can get to where it would normally go, so that we do not get the sheltereosions that are there. But these are the comments we have from the Danish People's Party. We support the bill; we look forward to a shorter processing period; we look forward to making it easier for people to make coastal protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101612	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101617	Thank you. And thank you for the comments on the bill. After all, I fully share that part of the faster procedure. I would just like to ask the rapporteur about the question of conservation of nature versus the desire for coastal protection. I actually perceive the Danish People's Party as a conservative party in terms of Danish values, i.e. a party that takes care of Danish values and thus also Danish natural values. So, conservations, it may be Stevn Klint or Grenen at Skagen, represents precisely the protection of some unique Danish values. Now the authority is transferred from a conservation board with a national court judge in the lead over to the municipalities and allows the municipalities to grant derogations from conservations, i.e. the heaviest protection, the most expensive protection, the most extensive protection possible for the most valuable Danish nature. Is this a change that the Danish People's Party is comfortable with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101724	Yes, we are, and we are, because in our optics it makes no sense at all to protect an area and then to see it fall into the sea. We've seen that in some places. We have seen Natura 2000 sites designated, protected areas designated, which cannot then be guaranteed. And for us it is a little strange that we want to protect something, to preserve something, to designate special nature, and then to say that we must not, moreover, protect it in such a way as to preserve it. Now all we have to do is let the free dynamics prevail, and then it falls into the sea. So for us, this makes a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101803	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101805	In some places the special nature that one has protected as it is is as a consequence of that coastal dynamics. So in some places it may probably make sense to let nature prevail in relation to these natural values, while elsewhere it is probably the opposite that applies; there may be a need to create coastal protection, also in protected areas. That is probably something that can be discussed. But what I am asking is: is it reasonable that this derogation should be granted by the municipalities instead of by the very heavy competent entity we currently have, which is the Peace Board with a court judge at the forefront?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101845	In our optics in the Danish People's Party it is quite clear in the municipalities that you know your areas, and I do not see that there should be anything wrong with the people who sit out in the municipality and who know their own municipality and know the places, having the competence to grant a derogation, in relation to whether you want to make coastal protection around something that is protected, rather than a court judge who may never have been in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101908	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413101911	Now the municipality is taking over some areas of competence that they do not, as a general rule, know. It may be that they get it in time, you can't rule that out. We are in a situation where we have some climate change that means that the seas are rising, so we might as well be prepared to risk that there are several areas that are being flooded. I heard the rapporteur mention in his speech that we must not harm others. I think that is a good statement, but in this bill I think there is a big problem, namely that if you make some tough coast protection via a landowners' association that goes out and gets some money and gets a project done, it can harm others. There I think it is a major problem that, if it is a private project, you do not have an opportunity to complain. There may well be another landowners' association located in the same geographical area, which can see some problems in it if there is a landowner's association that makes something significant, because then it can have a negative effect on their settlement. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not be reasonable for there to be equal redress, whether it was a private project or a joint community project.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102018	I think the opportunity offered in this draft law to complain is quite excellent. It seems to me that this is no problem, because now that you apply for a project, it is the municipality that has to grant permission. I am quite sure, since municipal politicians are typically in elections every four years, that everyone in the municipality and, for that matter, the neighbouring municipality will always be taken into account, because it can also cross the municipal boundaries. We see many projects which have been rejected in the past and which would not cause immediate damage elsewhere, for example. Slope protection. It's made in a lot of places. Many people have also been denied this because they thought there should be a free dynamic, but it has also resulted in people losing their property. So I don't see a problem in this. I have to say that it is possible that at this stage some people in the municipalities think that they may not have the best competence in terms of coastal protection, but they have worked on climate protection and action plans on climate protection in many municipalities. I know that from my own municipal political career. So I actually believe that there are many more competences than you think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102130	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102132	I still think it's a problem if you do these projects that you don't have the same right of appeal. I mean, if it's a municipal project, you as a citizen have an opportunity to complain. If, on the other hand, it is a basic owner's association that is in charge of carrying out some project with tough coastal protection, then in neighbouring areas they have no way of complaining, and I think that is a democratic problem. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102159-2	No, I don't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102205	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102209	I think that the rapporteur probably has constituents out there along the coasts, as do all of us, and it will be very exciting which voters have a house to protect and which voters are next door to a house to be protected, because with the new legislation being presented here, there is no redress for private projects. No evidence of efficacy is even required. This means that anyone can submit an application to the municipality. It is not clear whether the municipality can reject such an application at all and on what basis, but then you can start with the projects. And those projects will typically have the effect that the neighbors further down or upstream depending on how the dynamics are now • will experience greater problems. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a problem here which can, of course, look good for those who have a problem now, but which will create much greater problems for all the neighbours in the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102318	No, it can't actually, and I also think it's a little a thoughtful situation. It seems like you think there's a single homeowner doing a coastal protection project. I don't think I've actually seen that anywhere. It has almost always been a number of homeowners, a landowners' association, an area across a municipality border, that is between two municipalities, or something where they say that you have to do some protection because right there there there is an erosion and there is something in danger. And then you typically do a project between several landowners. It's also because these projects are typically expensive. I see no problem in allowing people as landowners in Denmark to protect their property from falling into the sea; I think that is actually a good thing and something to which everyone should be entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102408	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102410	We can talk about whether it's a landowner or five landowners in a row, but the mechanics are the same. So what's gonna happen out there is that if these five or eight landowners have agreed to do their project, the next five or eight landowners who don't do a project will suddenly experience a massive increase in coastal erosion due to this project, which can therefore just be put into effect, because you now think that you will do it the way you think is best. Nor should you call for expertise in this field ^ you can just get started when the municipality has granted a permit. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a problem, perhaps not for the individual neighbour, but for the next eight neighbouring neighbours who will experience a huge increase in coastal erosion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102501	No, I still can't. And I can't, because I've been out watching the houses fall into the sea. I can't believe you can't see that this is a problem for these people. We have even been involved in deciding in the Danish Parliament that the municipalities can now avoid charging property taxes if their land is below sea level. Yoo-hoo, I was almost about to say. That's good. Fortunately, because I hope that some municipalities do not charge property tax for a land when it lies below sea level. Counsel is a lot of things. I understand that the opposition believes that it is only the Coast Directorate I think it is more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102538	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102541	We are all in favour of coastal protection. What we are discussing right now is whether those who are neighbours to the views of a large project should be able to assert themselves. What should you do if you are next door to a coastal project and can see that okay, it's suddenly going to mean that your reason is starting to be close to falling into the sea? Should you then be able to have your voice and be heard? Does the Danish People's Party think that the people who are neighbours to these projects, whether small or large, should have a right to be heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102609	As I believe in this bill, the projects that can be approved must not harm others. But we see, for example. We also have infrastructure which we, as a state or municipality, have created, i.e. ports, do damage. What's up? Have you been able to complain about this? I'm not gonna be able to say that. There was an expansion of Hirtshal's harbour not long ago, and it has now begun to have some shelter erosion. I don't think anyone can complain about it. It's also kind of just happened. Then, of course, people want to protect their property, that is clear, and then you have to do something. So yes, it is true that we all want coastal protection, but since nothing has happened for many years, I am very, very happy about what is happening now. Because I don't want to see any more houses fall into the sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102703	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102705	I was very pleased to hear the rapporteur say that it must of course not harm others, and it can be difficult to decide if you do not have the perspective of the others. That is why it is wise for there to be an opportunity to raise objections if you are a neighbour, such as a neighbour. gets extra features on its coastline because of this project, and then you don't necessarily get heard. So will the rapporteur help us to look at the fact that if this can actually harm others, there is also an opportunity for those neighbours to be heard in such a process here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102736	However, I believe that this possibility is already there because it says that projects that can do harm to others must not be carried out. This also means that the municipality then has an obligation not to say yes to such projects, of course on the basis of an assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102755	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102812	Thank you. When the weather is raging and the storms are raging and you have seen citizens literally standing in water to their knees and closer to their shores, you understand the frustration, which has been there for years, that you have not been able to get through with various coastal protection projects. That is precisely the reason why the government and the minister, and hopefully also the majority, seem to be behind the fact that something needs to be done in this matter, now we need to have some momentum so that we can get coastal protection projects in place so that we can take care of our property. And, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen has explained so well, we can help citizens to look after their properties, and when they need to, they can come together so that houses do not fall into the sea. That is why I am very pleased that we can now deal with this bill and get something done about it. This particular bill is also about simplifying the procedure. As has also emerged from the debate in the past, we have also been able to look back on the cases that have taken place, and there has also been a complaint in public debate over and over again, that they have had to be dealt with over and over again and over again, and that is exactly what we are doing up with here. So I am glad that we can now hopefully get momentum in this, so that we can take good care of our coasts and people can take good care of their properties, and on that basis, of course, the Left supports the bill. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102950	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413102955	It is only a brief comment on the fact that the Conservatives do not appear in the Chamber today. I think it is quite special, also in view of the fact that we had the discussion about the protection at Easter, where it sounded as if the Conservatives had a position on the conservation issue, and now they cannot appear when the government directly undermines our conservation practices in law. I think that is quite appalling. The left is usually a party that cares a little about ownership. Will the rapporteur not explain to me why coastal protection neighbours have to be so fundamentally different from securing their ownership, depending on whether they are neighbours to a coastal protection project, which is a joint municipal project, or a private coastal protection project? I don't see the logic. I hope that the rapporteur of the Left can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103045	First of all, I would like to reject the fact that we are undermining the conservation measures that have been carried out over many years. We are completely at the mark of all the conservations that have been made over many years. Nor do we undermine conservation practices. It is true that there are some changes in this legislation in relation to the processing of these applications that lie there. It was also part of the debate earlier. I agree with what has been said about this. In relation to the next question: I think that is where we are supposed to move forward, and it is also the municipality that has to approve the projects. After all, they also have a duty to provide guidance and also an obligation to have an overview of whether it is in place in its entirety and is as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103126	Thank you. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103129	It is simply not enough to talk about some general thrust of things. That's not what I'm asking. What I am asking is whether the rapporteur would not be kind enough to explain why a property owner with a property right should be fundamentally different as a neighbour of a private coastal protection project versus being a neighbour of a joint municipal coastal protection project. Why should ownership and the possibility of defending property be so fundamentally different, depending on who initiated the coastal protection project to which one should be a neighbour? No logic has been described in the bill. The rapporteur of the Left must be able to explain this in more depth than by referring to some kind of impetus which I see makes no sense in relation to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103215	I can give you a clear and precise answer: we can be completely in line with the legislative proposal that is now before us. And if the questioner sees any ambiguity which he has not really got in place, he is welcome to ask questions about it in committee. I have also explained that it is the municipality which, while acquiring this competence, is responsible for ensuring that it is fully in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103235	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103239	Thank you. The rapporteur has just said in his reply to the previous rapporteur here that it will not mean anything to the conservationists. But what we can see in the bill is that the conservation boards are written out, that is that it is no longer the conservation authority that has to go into these cases; it is only the municipality that has to look at this. Moreover, there are much lower documentation requirements for the projects. This means that one can only write that a project will protect a summer house or a piece of farmland, and then there is no requirement to document further for the project. So how can the rapporteur claim that this will not mean anything to the conservationists? That will clearly mean something to the conservationists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103327	I didn't say that it wouldn't mean anything to the conservationists. I have just said that it is the municipality that is actually given the responsibility to secure the whole of this, so that, overall, some momentum can be gained. Because there is no idea, as we have seen so far, that we have not been able, if I may say so, to get through various projects. It does not, of course, support taking good care of protected nature, as the debate has shown in the past. That is why I am comfortable with, as is the draft law here, that the municipality will have the overall responsibility to ensure that the whole is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103400	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103402	But there has to be much weaker documentation if this bill is to be voted through than it has to be today. Today, it is necessary to describe the importance of the changes to conservation, to nature, and indeed to a whole range of things, including: Clithe conservation. It will be reduced to a very simple documentation of what the project will mean for this holiday home, and then the municipality will have to grant permission on the basis of it. This will then mean that a large number of conservations will be overrun because it is simply not documented what the change means for the conservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103434	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103436	No, I don't think that's gonna happen. I am quite sure that it is the municipalities that have the good, strong local knowledge. You know, quite precisely, not to say exactly where the shoe is pressing. So I do not think that there is any need for larger paper piles, as the questioner refers to here. I think that, when the municipalities know the local conditions, they are also able to take this into account in their proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103458	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103501	For the fact that the municipalities have the strong local knowledge, I think they have it on land. But now the municipalities get some new tasks and have to deal with the fact that there may be a landowners' association that takes the initiative and wants to make some tough coastal protection in order to secure their summer houses, and that is where I think we have a major problem. If the right of initiative is in a private project, the neighbours of that project do not have a means of redress, whereas, if it were the municipality that led a project, the citizens would have a means of redress. I do not see why the neighbours of a homeowner's association should be put at a disadvantage just because it is a homeowner's association that has taken the initiative, nor is it described in the draft law. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that there is a dilemma in this and that there is a democratic problem in the fact that there are some owners of housing along the coast who can be put at a very bad disadvantage if there is a foundation that takes the initiative and that has consequences for their property.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103605	Rather the opposite. After all, we can say that the municipality represents local democracy and, as we all know, there are municipal elections every four years. So you can actually say that there is also a strengthening of the local democratic element in this, and the municipalities will be responsible for ensuring that there is a whole. As I have already indicated in the debate: instead of looking at the fact that nothing is happening and that you can just continue to look at the accidents, I am glad that something is going to happen or that there is at least scope for something to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103636	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103639	There are many things that can happen, and it can be said that this legislative proposal contains some remedies that have been limited, so that we will probably have a faster momentum in the complaints that need to be dealt with. But I think it is a bit appalling to hear a member of the Liberal Party have such confidence in the system in relation to the individual citizen. It must be because one has been in government for a certain period, then one becomes such a power party that forgets that citizens also have rights. This bill is gonna be a complete step in the right direction. There is a foundation that can take an initiative, and there are some neighbours who do not have a right to complain. It's totally unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103719	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103721	On the contrary. Because I have seen, when we have been around to hear and see in relation to these various projects, that if they could not become something for different reasons, because there have been complaints and complaints again, many have said: do we not have an opportunity now to get some rules and some systems to play by so that you can get some momentum on it? So I'm kind of happy to be on target for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103743	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103747	Will the rapporteur not explain to us why, as a neighbour of a private project, one should be placed at a disadvantage than a neighbour of a municipal project?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103758	I don't see any trouble in this either. Because the municipality has to represent everything and all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103805	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103807	So, I think everyone in here agrees that if you're next door to a municipal project, you can complain and that if you're next door to a private project, you can't complain. Will the rapporteur at least explain to us the logic behind this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103822	As I have pointed out before, I am also very concerned about the fact that for years we have seen that this is just the sand and no projects have come through and, if I may say so, we have looked at all the unfortunate cases that have been that it is a good thing that there is now an opportunity to get momentum on these various issues. So I think it's fine, as it is now, and I can totally stand up for this bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103844	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413103901	With this bill that we are discussing today, it is the third amendment that we see in the area of coastal protection under this government. Once again, this shows that coastal nature and civil rights are being put under pressure. With the recent amendment of the coastal protection law, the Government has already made it possible to protect the coast from unbuilt land, agricultural land and coastal protection of summer houses and other settlements where there are no strictly necessary social measures. And now that the government is taking the next step with this bill, where the right of appeal, the right of nature and legal certainty are at stake, we in the Enhedslist believe that the government is heading another step in the wrong direction. It is particularly worrying that the legislative proposal removes the access to complaints about the content of private coastal protection projects, which constitute the vast majority of coastal protection projects. That is to say, when, for example, when... a private landowner association decides to make tough coastal protection on the coast off their property and get permission from the municipality, then neighbors further down the coast, which is being strongly affected by the project, do not have the opportunity to complain about the project. It is a strong democratic deterioration in relation to the situation as it stands today, and it seems deeply illogical that whether coastal protection projects affect nature or neighbors inappropriately can only be complained about if there is talk of a joint community project, and not if there is a private coastal protection project. As a citizen, you have different rights, depending on whether it is a municipal joint project or whether it is a private project. In my view, this is a clear violation of legal certainty, and I hope it is based on an error. We can also see that both cottage owners and Agriculture & Food are very concerned about keeping the right to complain, so I very much hope that during the examination of the draft law we will be able to make amendments that can counter this. As far as the transfer of exemptions for conservation from the conservation board to the municipality is concerned, it is very worrying because this bill begins to tamper with the conservation instrument. In view of the desire to speed up proceedings, the bill would deprive the conservation boards of the power to decide whether or not a conservation measure can be dispensed with on a case-by-case basis. Instead, it is suggested that it should be the municipality that can take this decision and that coastal protection projects can be exempted from protection in the area. However, the conservation activities have been carried out to protect national interests. It is by no means certain that a municipality will be able to take up national natural interests if, for example, there are: local is a lot of pressure from a group of citizens to get a coastal protection project under way. In other words, it is an incredibly bad idea to leave it up to the municipalities. It is not because I do not trust the municipalities, but it is indisputable that they have other strong local interests that they have to take care of. A solution, if you want to have a faster procedure, could be that coastal protection projects dealing with protected areas run in the conservation board in parallel with the proceedings in the municipality. As regards the balance of nature considerations in coastal protection projects, Enhedslisten considers it deeply worrying that the draft law envisages that when the municipality has to provide an estimate of balance sheets and interests in the joint coastal protection projects, the municipality should only explain the main considerations. What does the main concern mean? Does this mean that the municipality does not need to explain how, for example, they do. Have you considered how nature is affected? This means that ordinary citizens are deprived of the opportunity to gain insight into how a joint community coastal protection project will affect the surrounding nature of their area. This is clearly a very inappropriate simplification of the legislation, which does not lead to more transparency and confidence. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill because we fear that it will pave the way for more coastal protection projects that do not take the necessary account of nature, and we also believe that the bill violates the legal certainty of ordinary citizens, because they will no longer be able to complain about a project and they will not be heard. However, I hope, as I said earlier, that we will be able to bring together a number of amendments which, in any case, deal with the obvious shortcomings of the proposal, among other things. It's about the possibility of redress.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104357	Thanks to Enhedslisten. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104417	Thank you. I am very pleased that, with this bill, we are getting to grips with the problem which many citizens along our coasts are experiencing, namely the risk and fear of having their property damaged over and over again when we experience extreme weather. It has already had serious consequences for a great many families, and it can be devastating for those families who, in a few hours, can have their lives turned upside down and actually become homeless or at least are affected both physically and mentally in the situation and also for a very long time afterwards. In fact, I believe that the fear of many families will never escape the roof after they have experienced flooding or a house crashing into the sea. It is an important and socially critical task, I would call it, to protect human values and the buildings that are particularly exposed to floods and coastal erosion. This also means that citizens and municipalities are not caught in a bureaucratic hell where complaints and applications run between authorities for years. The fact that only one place should be sought, namely the municipality, will make it much easier and quicker for landowners to secure their property, especially if it is done jointly as a whole. Some stakeholders are so worried about whether the municipalities can handle this task. It is clear, of course, that this is a task which the municipality must be properly entrusted with with appropriate guidance, so that the right competences to make such decisions are acquired in the municipalities. It will continue to be possible to seek guidance from the Coastal Directorate in connection with municipal joint projects. I and the Liberal Alliance have full confidence that this is a task that the municipalities can take on in the future. In fact, I think it is important that these decisions are taken locally, as it is the municipalities that have the best insight into local conditions along the Danish coasts. Then there are some voices who are concerned about the limited right of appeal. I have to say here that consideration must be given to those citizens whose private property is about to ride in the sea. We have seen several examples of the fact that a permit for the coastal protection project is subject to infinity, without any result being achieved at the end of the day. Each time a complaint is filed, it's just dragged out for even longer. After all, the municipalities still have to go out locally weighing up the concerns of conservation of nature, environmental consequences, coastal morphology and other things. I believe that this is a very good legislative proposal, in which we ensure rapid processing and in which we ensure that private citizens can protect their property. That is, to me, basically what the bill is about, and that is also why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104754	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104758	Thank you. The Left rapporteur had to give up completely earlier on explaining why there is this difference between being a neighbour of a private coastal protection project and then a joint municipal coastal protection project. I hope that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has a little more desire to enter that debate. This is an important question, I think. Will the Liberal Alliance not try to explain the logic of being as different as a neighbour to a coastal protection project if it is a private coastal protection project versus a community project?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413104834	Thank you for the question. In fact, I must admit that I believe that the question which has been running around the Chamber over a period of time now and which then comes back from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, a little bit of a misunderstanding. Because we do not necessarily have to distinguish between private and municipal projects. What is, it might be said, an issue here is that we want to have these larger holistic joint projects, so that we see coastal protection in a wider perspective, in a more holistic perspective, so that it is not for the individual landowner and not for the individual landowners' association, but so that we get into larger holistic projects. So it has to be said here, if there are individual landowner projects, etc., that there is still full consultation of these projects, the municipalities are still obliged to take account of conservation and the municipalities are still obliged to take account of the project as such in relation to coastal technical assessment etc. It must have an effect, and it must not have a negative effect on neighbours, etc. So all these things are still in effect; now they just lie, you might say, closer to the citizens of the local politicians, the municipal council, out locally along our coasts, where I use it in many contexts, but I would say that maybe the hand has a little more on the hot plate than you have a bit further away from the specific local conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105008	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105010	I know sir. Carsten Bach. I know, sir. Carsten Bach understands the difference. Well, Carsten Bach is very well able to understand this legislation. I am absolutely convinced of that; I know that. The joint municipal projects may be subject to full review. Today, they represent 10% of the population. The other private projects, which account for 90%, are subject to legal review only. It may well be that with this bill you can push it over in the direction of a larger share of municipal joint projects. But even if you get it doubled, let's say it will be 20% that are municipal projects, and 80% that are private projects. Why should a neighbour of a private project only have the opportunity to complain about legal matters, i.e. procedural matters, while the same neighbour of another project, which is common to the community, can have a full trial? Why should there be that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105109	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105111	Thank you. Again, I believe that here you may be deliberately, perhaps unconsciously, trying to set up something where you talk municipal versus private. Because that is actually not the case here. I fully understand the concern, and I share it in this way, and I shall look forward to a committee hearing where there may be some in the opposition, perhaps Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen himself, who can ask some questions about this, so that we can clarify exactly what this is covering up. In fact, I believe that the concern in this Chamber, which I share in part, can disappear as a dew to the sun. And it is my view that this is also a question of addressing the problem that some of these many and long complaints processes are pulling the initiative out locally in order to be able to protect their property.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105204	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105207	Thank you. However, I think that, for the sake of the many listeners out there, we may need to make clear what the difference is on full trial and legal matters. Full trial is, of course, when you can go into the substance. Legal matters are such things as whether it has been submitted on time, whether there is the right address and things like that. What is being removed with this proposal is the complete trial. The draft law does say that it is not the intention to change the level of protection, and I think that is what the rapporteur referred to. But today it is the case that when you complain, you can go in and complain about conditions in relation to the beach protection line, dune conservation, EIA permit, sea and creek protection, conservation etc. etc. All that falls away for 90 percent. of the projects. So you cannot go in there and send a complaint saying that I think the conservation here is getting worse or that the protection of the beach is threatened by this project or this kind of thing. One can only go in with regard to such projects and complain that something has been submitted too late or that there is a wrong address. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105316	Thank you, by the way. Christian Poll to give this description, which I really think is very sober and really given. I think my answer is also in that question, Mr President. Christian Poll is asking, because at this point in time it will continue to be taken into account here in the proceedings with the municipalities. That's exactly the long rhyme, as Mr. Christian Poll himself said that this will take a long time. And there is one consideration to be given here too on time; there is one consideration here to take into account the initiative of the individual landowner to be able to enter and secure his own private property, without it having to pass through a long bureaucratic game back and forth between authorities and complaints bodies for both the one and the other and the third parameter. So I might actually think that my answer was very good in the description from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105423	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105425	I fully agree that there are a great many of the projects that have taken far too many years to decide. This could be solved by looking at creating a co-existence in the case. That would be what would be interesting if you had to make the small solution here, so to go in and see if we could not run some steps in parallel, beside each other, so that we could get some quick decisions. I'd go along with that. But what we are doing here is, after all, removing the basis of documentation, the democratic possibility of interference and, in fact, simply weakening the legal protection of the citizens who will be affected by the projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105503	As I was saying, I think Mr. Knox's gonna be a good guy. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, then I share this concern and I will look forward to the committee reading where I am sure the opposition will put a large number of questions on this. I will read them very carefully. However, as I said in my speech, I am very confident about local democracy in dealing with these matters in the future in the municipalities, because I believe that it is out of the local community that this kind of matter should be dealt with, because that is where you have the hand on the hot plate and have knowledge of local conditions. So I am very confident and have great confidence in local democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105539	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105543	It is a good thing that the rapporteur has confidence in the authorities. I am going to think back to when the counties were decommissioned and the municipalities took over some tasks in the environmental field. There was a local lack of counties because they nevertheless took some overall view in relation to a larger geographical area. Then the municipalities took over some tasks, and then it could be very local conditions that were given priority I think something similar could happen here when the municipalities take over a new task. And so I do not believe that it is in all the municipalities that have a coastline that it is handled well. Municipalities can be challenged by the fact that a landowner's association takes an initiative to make a tough coastal protection. In his speech, the rapporteur emphasized something about the overall view, but that cannot be guaranteed. Should the municipality then say no to the landowners' association and say: We wait until there are some more applications? I do not think it is reasonable that there should be no right of appeal for citizens, regardless of who has the copyright for a project. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105650	As I have already said a few times, I fully understand the concern, and I have also read the consultation answers from both one and the other and the third organisation, and I look forward to the committee reading and to the fact that we will have a deeper look into this. I am sure the opposition will be reassured. In relation to the question of democracy and the question of whether the municipality can take up the task, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen refers to when the counties were decommissioned: I might recognize some of the description in relation to the situation when the counties were decommissioned, but I think that today we are in a situation in which the municipalities are actually able to carry out these tasks and have been given this promise of competence. As I also said in my speech, this transfer must be done properly and instructions must be provided. It is also described by the Ministry that the Coastal Directorate will do some transfer with the municipalities, etc., where relevant. So it is ensured that this competence is transferred to the municipalities. Then it is clear that it may not be from day one that you can lift this one hundred percent, but then you still have the opportunity to draw on guidance from the Coast Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105800	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105802	I think it might be interesting if someone would do that evaluation of the closure of the counties and of the negative impact it had on safeguarding the interests of the environment and nature. What happened was a disaster. And I do not want us here to come up with something just as bad for our coast protection. However, I do not think that the rapporteur really answered this with legal certainty for the citizen who might get into trouble, because there is some kind of entrepreneurial homeowners' association that comes first with a tough coast protection, and then it hurts others. There I think it would certainly be reasonable for the citizen to have a right of appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105839	First of all, I think that my definition of disaster is a little different from that of Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussens. Secondly, I would like to say that it is not the case that the municipalities must completely now and in the future neglect all considerations of everything else, such as conservation of nature, neighbors and so on. There must still be evidence that the coastal protection facilities being built around actually have an effect and that they do not have a negative effect on neighbours, etc. Those considerations still need to be taken away. They'll be taken care of today. Instead, they must be taken care of by the municipalities, but they still have to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105914	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105917	It is rather a new Liberal Alliance that we are seeing at the moment, because what I hear the rapporteur stand and say is that he thinks it is very good to take rights from individual citizens if only the municipality has given a permit, that is to say that it is now 90 per cent. in the event that only the municipality has granted a permit, the individual citizens who are neighbours to the permits should no longer have any rights. It is just a new Liberal Alliance that I have not seen before, but it is perhaps part of this change that is taking place in the party, and perhaps the rapporteur can clarify what that liberal view is now saying that if the municipality has granted a permit, one should no longer have a right in 90%. of the cases as a neighbour or as a citizen of the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413105958	After all, the Liberal Alliance came into being, you might say, on the remnants of the New Alliance, and who knows, it may well be that at some point a party will emerge that will be called the New Liberal Alliance. I'm not gonna be able to say that. That is a bit of what Mrs Ida Auken is talking about, but I do disagree with the democratic deficit that is being referred to all the time. In fact, I believe that there have been democratic deficits in the past for these landowners who have had to see their houses, cottages or other twigs in the sea, seeing their houses flooded because it has not been possible to protect the coast, has not been possible to secure its property. I say it again, I have said it, I do not know how many times now, and I think that we can also say it many times in committee that it is not the case that the municipality or the authority in the form of the municipality has been somewhere else in the past that the authority should not take account of nature conservation, neighbors, etc. That must still be taken into account. So it is not the case that all summer homes other than exactly the summer houses at the Landowners' Association in Lønstrup will be flooded and washed away now, because you can secure summer houses in and around Lønstrup or elsewhere along our coasts, where you can then get coastal protection and protect the properties that have so far been in danger and which have so far been unable to provide coast protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110126	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110128	Now I had the exquisite pleasure of being with Mr. Carsten Bach out looking at coastal protection with a long distance from Borgen ■ and there the rapporteur very much cared that there was coherent thinking in the municipalities and coherent planning. Well, that's missing from this bill, you might say. Could I hear a little from the rapporteur on how to ensure that the municipalities make these coherent plans before starting to grant drip licences?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110153	After all, the draft law provides for an attempt to push these projects so that the municipality takes more responsibility, and it is also in that we move the administrative procedure to the municipalities. The municipalities are the authority, the body that has the hand on the hob, has knowledge of the local conditions, and they must take greater responsibility here and more initiative to create these joint projects and more holistic solutions. That is what the draft law also proposes. How much we can move it, I don't know. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen guessed that we could double it. I believe that we can make it much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110232	Thank you, so no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110240	Thank you. With this and the government's two previous changes to coastal regulation, coastal protection is entering a form in which the appearance of the coast is subject to the well-being of the individual pilot owner with severely weakened documentation requirements for environmental and nature effects as well as weakened legal protection for neighbours to projects. It is clear from the draft law that it is not the intention to change the level of protection, but how do we know that? How can we know that if we weaken documentation requirements, for example. If we no longer have to document the changes that can occur in nature, in conservation, in coastal protection, etc.? With the new rules, it would appear that cases only have to be documented in relation to the most significant consideration. Other matters need not be documented. This means that a case can therefore be carried out where only for example. the protection of a cottage must be described, not what coastal protection will mean for nature or the environment in the area. The advice of a competent authority shall no longer be sought. You can simply set the project in motion if the municipality has granted permission. In coastal projects with conservation, competence is transferred to the municipalities, and it is a little strange when we have conservation boards that can do this. The landowners who are given the opportunity to initiate projects can now live up to 1,000 m away from the coast from the present 100 m away. Why? What are these needs? Ten times is a violent expansion. When municipal projects are launched, there must be a consultation, but the environmental consequences should not be explained. Why not? And how is nature secured? How can we prove, when this is the case, that we do not want to change the level of protection? When private projects are set in motion, no complaints can be made at all. Why is the right of appeal completely removed for private projects? How, then, are neighbours secured against projects that will increase coastal erosion as a result of private coastal protection? So this bill removes protection of nature and the environment. This weakens the legal protection of neighbours to coastal protection projects, and the slow process could actually have been completed by adjusting the rules for simultaneous handling instead. What should you do instead? The alternative and Enhedslisten have in the last session proposed a national coastal council, a national coastal fund and a common priority for what needs to be taken care of by private values, of common values and where we need to take care of nature. Coastal erosion is not a new issue, but it is further challenged by man-made climate change. But it should be a national joint task to shape Denmark's wildest scenery along the coasts. We must jointly decide what we want and where we want it, and then we must carry out major joint projects with the help of the coastal fund, which saves what we decide to save, buildings as well as nature. The alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413110550	Our coasts are a national treasure. The Danish free coasts are known throughout the world for being completely unique because they are not built because there are places where they can unfold freely. This is one of the things that really attracts tourism to the west coast and creates life and growth in some areas where there may not always be so much life and growth all year round. They are a huge value. They are part of both the value policy and the value debate on how to take care of something as important as the Danish coasts and the Danish landscape. But they also have enormous economic value, which we must take very good care of. Then there is another consideration, and it is for those people who have houses or holiday homes down to the coast and who experience that there is a great erosion, that is, that land disappears. They want to make a tough coast protection outside their properties, and you understand that. The problem is that when you make a tough coast protection, the water hits harder up higher and eats itself further into the country. That's it, sir. Carsten Bach and I were able to see when we included. visited Lønstrup. In other words, because there is a one-stop shop, some neighbours have now seen 40 m of land disappearing in front of their summer houses because there are no coasts safe there. So either you can choose the model of having a tough coast protection all the way along the coast, because then it's sort of taken care of. Then there is no beach, then there will be a tough coast protection all the way. Or one might say: we have to have a coherent plan where we talk about where we want to have these coasts in free play and where, if there are people living there and who are going to pay the bill individually, we may be able to buy their land either with state or municipal money. Well, we're buying them out so that we can preserve this natural area and this beach that people walk on, and this area that so many enjoy. You can talk about where you can put the tough coastal protection projects, so that you really protect those places where there is the greatest value, and then we may have to share paying to put a lot of sand on those stretches, so that there remains a beach. Because you can make a sensible tough coast protection if, at the same time, you pump out a lot of sand on the coast and on the beach, so that it continues to cover for the tough coast protection. There are also many places where you can handle it with sand-feeding, that is, where you can keep laying sand in the country or on the beach to make sure that this is what the water takes instead of the water taking off the coast. So it's of course some of these places a common task for the state or for the municipalities to talk about how to do it. But it takes a complete glance. This requires that you do not make small, drip-wise bets, because then some others will have to pay the bill. On the part of the Radical Left, we cannot support the proposal now before us. We could help with the assignment of competence to the municipality. We could help to ensure that the procedures are speeded up. However, in the way we are doing it now, coherent planning has not been ensured until authorisation is granted, and individual citizens in the area have not been guaranteed that they will also be heard. If today, with the proposal put forward by the government, you are a neighbour of a project where the right of initiative is private and where the municipality then grants a permit, then you will no longer be able to complain that this is going in on a beach protection line or destroying the beach in front of your summer house or where you go for a walk because the government is now removing a complaint opportunity. We think that is the wrong way to go. Instead of thinking about it in a context and seeing how to get things through quickly in the Board of Appeal, which you yourself have greatly delayed by moving it around, you are now doing so, simply removing the right of neighbors to be heard. We think that is the wrong way to go. So it is a matter of nature and protection which is being heavily downgraded. It is fine to protect the freedom of the individual, but we must also think of all the neighbours and all those who are around, and that balance is not at all in this proposal. In addition, competence from the Protection Board is transferred to the municipalities, and we think that is a bad idea. Nature conservation of some of our most important natural areas is really one of the gems that lies in the treasure chest of Danish values to preserve Danish landscape beauty, and it will now be taken out of the hands of the conservation board. We think that is also a mistake in this proposal. Last but not least, with this bill, the municipalities have now been given a big and difficult task. And if you don't really make sure you get the Coast Directorate's knowledge moved into the municipalities and provide proper guidance, then there will also be people out there who have to deal with this and who haven't had the experience yet. In other words, we also lack a plan from the government on how all the knowledge of the Coastal Directorate can get out to the municipalities in the form of guidance and in other ways. SF sends his regards and says that they are in the same place as the Radical Left. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413111043	Thank you. There are no comments, so that is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413111050	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. One of the last few years, Denmark has been affected several times by storm tides and floods, and as the future climate scenarios look, this is something that we must adapt to. It is therefore essential that coastal protection be thought into when building and planning in the future. The government wants to promote this development by making it easier for both the individual homeowner and the municipalities to protect themselves from extreme weather. The first step was taken when we decided in January this year to amend the objective clause of the coastal protection law, something we, among others, took. has worked in a close collaboration with Dansk Folkeparti on. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work on this dossier. This is something that is of great concern to both of us, and it is essential, because a change makes it much simpler for citizens to protect their property in the coastal areas so that they can just sleep safely at night in their homes, even when the barometer is showing storms. The next natural step is, of course, the proposal we are debating today. We've called the bill one entrance. And let me explain why. Up to now, a coastal protection case has often had to be dealt with by two authorities: the state and the municipality. Now the entire decision-making power is being brought together with the municipalities, so that in future only one authority, namely the municipality, will apply for authorisation. It is the municipalities that have local knowledge and close contact with the citizen, and it is therefore for the municipality to receive the citizens' applications and carry out the proceedings from start to finish. At the same time, the government has a strong desire to simplify and shorten the procedure. So far, homeowners have been able to literally see the water moving closer, while the procedure dragged out. We therefore propose amending the law so that a number of derogations and permits granted under legislation other than the Coastal Protection Act are included in the final authorisation for coastal protection. Until now, the authority authorisations required by a coastal protection project have been examined and notified independently of each other. Each decision has also been able to be challenged separately, and this has led to the long processing times, which have caused so much concern and insecurity among houseowners in the exposed areas. I think it must be because the Socialist rapporteur has forgotten Jyllinge Nordmark and the mayor's colleague in Roskilde, who is also a social democrat, that the rapporteur is not just voting for this. Because if there is anything that the Social Democrats in Roskilde and all the citizens out there have experienced, then it is about Jyllinge Nordmark, where you have had to catch up with nothing less than ten separate authority approvals, and that is not appropriate. Now the government and the Danish People's Party are making it that we put the citizen at the centre, the needs of the citizen, and not all sorts of others. That is why it is a huge day of celebration for the citizens today when we make the legislation that has been demanded for years, including by the mayors. Because it is precisely when, as in Jyllinge, we are planning long-term and cross-municipal borders that we will have coastal protection that benefits the most and will be the cheapest for the individual. Therefore, it must be the end of matters that are dragging on when the individual citizen or local municipalities want to protect property and values from the sea. The basic idea behind the one entrance proposal is that it should be easier and quicker for the individual homeowner to secure his property so that the family can sleep safely, even when the sea shows teeth. Another important aim is to make it simpler for municipalities wishing to implement large and longer-term coastal protection projects. With the proposal, the government wants not only to create a single entry point and to bring together the whole of the processing competence in one place, but also to streamline the procedure itself, so that all approvals and exemptions are brought together in one decision. In this way, we can create clear and visible momentum in the coastal protection projects both for the individual citizen and for the Danish coastal municipalities who want to engage in community solutions. The inclusion of legislation means that it is easier and simpler to carry out a coastal protection project, but that does not mean that this legislation should no longer be taken into account. When a coastal protection project is to be initiated, the municipality, as an authority, must continue to weigh up considerations such as: a protected area just as before. Even in the future, the municipalities will not be able to ignore environmental impact assessments or curl the provisions on the protection of ancient memories together and throw them into the trash. The only difference is that each authorisation or derogation no longer has to be dealt with separately. It shall not be subject to separate consultation and shall not be subject to separate appeal. Instead, each authorisation or derogation is an important element of the final decision of the municipality, which is then heard and brought together. In this way, the procedure becomes smoother and much, much faster. And I just need to remind the rapporteurs of the January month of 2017, I think it was. They stood and were upset with the citizens out in Jyllinge Nordmark and saw the floods. You can't blow and have flour in your mouth. In other words, if you want to have faster procedures and take account of the citizens, you cannot continue with the paradigm we know today. And the rapporteurs who are voting against this must go out and explain this with those colleagues who have stood out with water to their knees and wept with the citizens. Since the first coastal protection law was introduced in 1988, the management of the coastal protection law has been one of the tasks of the Coastal Directorate. Therefore, when the authority task is now placed in the municipalities, it is important for me that we, as the government, make a determined effort. This was also what the radical rapporteur wanted to see in order to make the transition as easy and smooth as possible. That is why we have taken a number of measures to facilitate the transition to municipal management of coastal protection cases and to pave the way for municipalities that will launch municipal joint projects. During the period from April to November this year, the Ministry of Environment and Food's Travel Team for Climate Adaptation, Floods and erosion invites all interested municipalities to a number of courses covering three key themes: legislation and casework in coastal protection cases, municipal joint projects and coastal technical protection methods. It is often a major challenge for the municipality to distribute the bill when taking a local joint initiative to protect the coast, and to facilitate the establishment of such common solutions, the Coastal Directorate has also prepared a guide on how expenditure can be distributed to members of different owners of real estate that benefit from coastal protection. In the Ministry of the Environment and Food, we also provide guidance on technical coastal protection methods, which are ready for the municipalities when they take over the procedure. And alongside these activities, the Ministry of the Environment and Food's specialists in coastal protection will continue to be available to the municipalities with advice and coastal technical guidance. Why? Because we all have an interest in making these projects in the best possible way and not to inconvenience neighbours and others. I am pleased to present a legislative proposal which represents a strong simplification in the area of coastal protection. With that, we bring together the authority in one place. We ensure faster processing by including exemptions and other authority authorisations in one final decision under the Coastal Protection Act, and I hope that there is broad support for this when we are through the legislative process in the coming weeks. So just one piece of precision, because on several rapporteurs it has sounded as if we are now completely helpless as a citizen when coastal protection projects are being carried out that are not joint municipalities. That is not the case. Appeals are still available in private landowners' cases. The extent of the review is a legal issue, and it is, of course, because we have confidence that this will be done according to the right measures and that citizens will have to have approval as in all other authorisation cases and also have to obtain coastal technical assessment. You can do it at the Coast Directorate, but you can also do it in others with coastal technical competence, so that you don't cause shelter erosion and the like when you do your projects. Then we do it, that over the next five years we'll or where that number ends; we've put up to 5 years on the government's side to evaluate the setup, and if there's any inappropriateness, no one in this thing is too big to change things and things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413111927	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413111931	After all, it is an ugly blunder without giving the impression from the Minister that I do not care what is going on in Jyllinge Nordmark. I have been out there twice in the last year, and exactly the improvements for the citizens of Jyllinge Nordmark that this bill entails, we are fully behind it. After all, the project in Jyllinge Nordmark would be a municipal joint project if it were to be approved according to the new rules, and we fully support the process proposed by the bill for such projects. So free the thing from that kind of bullshit, untruths. I do not think that suits the Minister. I would then like to ask the Minister to answer why citizens who are neighbours to private projects should be placed at a disadvantage and have more limited access to complaining than citizens who are neighbours to a community coastal protection project.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112032	Thank you. But the platters come only from the rapporteur of the Socialist Group, because one cannot sit and on the one hand want what is involved in joint municipal projects and then on the other hand would not change the legislation so that one has a single piece of this. That is why the platters are only with the rapporteur, and I think that the rapporteur should go well and thoroughly into the think box before the Socialists end up voting against it here. We have wanted to have a quick and flexible process about this, and that is why in individual private landowners you can only have a review of legal issues. Moreover, we believe that the legal certainty of citizens where they should be, and then all other factors must be taken into account in the proceedings they should have with the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112117	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112121	It must be a shame to be an observer at this. The Social Democrats say very clearly that the process that this proposal will give a project such as Roskilde, a better process, a faster process, supports the social democracy. So the Social Democratic Party fully supports the fact that we need to have faster coastal protection, which we want to give to municipal joint projects with this legislation. What we do not support is that you put neighbours at a disadvantage if you are next door to a private project than if you are next door to a municipal joint project. I think that the Minister should make more efforts to respond to that difference and less effort to dissipate bullshit and untruths about social democracy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112208	That is to say, I would say to the rapporteur that if one case, namely neighbouring testing, were changed, the Socialists would vote in favour of the whole legislative dossier. That's how I'm supposed to understand it. However, we have said that when you get approval from the municipalities, there are the considerations that need to be taken into account, and what has to be complained about is the legal issue, because that is what is crucial when we look at the individual case projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112231	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112236	On the part of the Radical Left, we could consider voting in favour if we could actually achieve such an improvement that the same rules applicable to municipal projects also apply to private projects. So if the Minister will consider it, perhaps we can even negotiate with the Social Democrats. For it would in itself be out in the real world to lift the green top bar so significantly that we would consider voting for this proposal. So when the Minister says this and asks the Social Democratic Party, I will ask him if it is because he actually intends to make a broader agreement and bring us all along with such a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112308	It is not necessarily so, but I am listening to what the rapporteurs say in Things, and it is indeed the task of law-reading to see where the ends might be met. We believe that it will considerably delay the whole dossier if we also have to carry out a full review of all the private cases. We also believe that it is unnecessary to do so, because there are a lot of factual considerations in the municipal proceedings that must already be taken into account. But that is what the law is for, that is to say, to discuss with each other, so that everyone may have a more nuanced view of what the consequences might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112336	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112339	I would like to sign for that, because it can just be really difficult for us here and the citizens out there to understand that you have to be different if you are a neighbour of a private project rather than a neighbour of a municipal project. And this is the last request to the Minister to explain to us why you have to be different if you are next door to a private project and less advantageous if you are next door to a municipal project.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112406	That is the answer, and that is what I gave to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is that we want to have a quickness about these relationships. We run the risk, with the cases of private landowners, that this is going to drag on indefinitely, and that is exactly what we have wanted to get away from. That is what we have been able to see in all sorts of places in the country, and that is what has hampered the whole momentum of the projects. So we do not want to place the same burdens on matters that belong to private landowners, and we also believe that there is the process of the municipal approval system that takes into account what needs to be taken into account. But that is one of the things we can elaborate on for the rapporteur, so that the rapporteur should not be worried about that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112440	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112444	First of all, I'd like to comment on this rather boring dialogue that was at the beginning. I think it's a shame to use words like bullshit and stuff like that in here. I see that the whole opposition is prepared to make changes in this way. The Minister puts it a little bit that either the changes proposed by the government are being made or no changes are being made. And that is not the case at all. As far as we are concerned, together with the Enhedslisten in the last session, we have presented a completely different approach to the area, and I am sure that the other parties here would also like to make changes, so that this will be a much more flexible area to work with. Something that also lies in this is the removal of the obligation to obtain professional guidance, the removal of a number of documentation requirements, and so I would like to ask the Minister: how should the municipalities be able to ensure that there is a proper assessment of what these projects will mean for nature and the environment, for conservation, for the natural conditions of the coasts, etc., when the documentation becomes so much worse and the professional guidance disappears?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112553	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112556	Well, sir. Christian Poll will have to read what the draft law says, because there is not a single place where coastal guidance disappears. Now you just get the option as a citizen that you can choose between getting coastal technical guidance for your projects from private actors, engineering companies or the like that are certified to it, and then the Coastal Directorate, where the guidance today is only in the Coast Directorate. So there's nothing in it, sir. Christian Poll says that there is something on him, and it is quite important to emphasise it here. So the coasts do not run the risk of being exposed to anything that is not technically safe in the coast.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112636	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112639	I am sorry if I have misunderstood something, but it is a rather complicated proposal. As I understand the proposal, it is the case that you are no longer obliged to obtain any kind of professional advice you can choose for yourself. And that's what for me is the difference. Are you going to have a professional evaluation, or can you just like a group of private individuals come up with your own projects and then submit them to the municipality and then get an approval, or what? Is there a requirement for a professional assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112710	Yes, there is. So you can't just make up the idea that you're gonna put bigballs up on the beach and then protect your property with it. The same legal situation applies, and that means that if you come as a citizen and want to make a coastal protection project around your property, you must have a coastal technical assessment of the things to be set up, and the municipality must take due account of that, just as you do in all kinds of other cases. But we're just saying that it's not just the Coast Directorate that has to give the coastal engineering assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112738	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112741	Well, I understand from the Minister that speed in these cases is important, but if you really want to have the top tuned speed, you should also abolish the right of appeal when it was municipal projects that you want to implement. I don't think it's fair to go that way. I do not think that in today's debate we have been able to demonstrate why citizens will be restricted the possibility of complaining if there is a core owner's association that is in the shoes of a local area and makes the first proposal for tough coastal protection and then the municipality says yes to it. I also think that there are some restrictions in this consultation requirement. I think it is essential that, when there are such consultations, there are thorough ones, and here there are some things that need to be explained. There might well be a project that has a main concern, which then forgets other considerations, and it is therefore important that we have a proper hearing in which all aspects are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112839	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen states that the legal status of these projects is, of course, crucial, and that is also why the extent of the review in legal matters is for citizens who make individual projects. It is perfectly legal not to want to have a higher speed in the work on coastal protection projects to be set up, but we can only see that this is the necessary solution if you do not have to end up in Jyllinge Nordmark cases and the like around the country. And we have a desire from the government together with the Danish People's Party to get higher speeds in our cases. But all honour and respect that one can have a different view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413112924	Yeah, but there are parts of this bill that simplify something so you can't complain to a number of agencies. It will then be a matter of centralisation, and I have listened to several parties in this way, as I see it, could be an excellent grip. But I do not see why it would then be impossible to complain. We are faced with something here where the municipalities have to take over a competence, and it might well be that there are some municipalities that are doing something in their casework that should be able to complain about. I think it would be quite different if we had something that was a municipal core competence, where they were just experts on it, but here they are taking over something new, and I think that citizens should have the opportunity to complain about the projects that are approved when it is a private initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113004	I understand that point of view. What we are calm about in relation to the municipalities is that the municipalities are today experts on making approval projects. Then it is quite right, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that now there is a new dimension to it, but that is why we are making the entire keyboard of technically knowledgeable guidance available to the municipalities, and that we need to obtain opinions so that the municipalities do not just hover in the open about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113028	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113030	Thank you. Now I have been watching the debate, and I just want to start by asking the Minister a little more factually about this Jyllinge Nordmark project: what type of project is it? I understand that the municipality is aware of this, but at the same time the Minister describes it as a private project. So it's just about the factual part of it. Then I cannot understand the logic of legalising neighbours for private projects differently from neighbours for joint municipal projects. I simply cannot understand the explanation that has been given. So far, I understand that it's all about moving faster if you're next door to a private project. I have also heard the Minister say that if you want to do a full trial on private projects, it will be able to go on indefinitely. I just have to ask: does the Minister say that if you are next door to a joint community project where there is access to full review, it will be able to drag on indefinitely?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113132	No, but there is a very large difference between the scope of cases to be subject to full review and judicial review, namely whether they are Chapter 1 (a) cases, or whether they are private individuals cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113144	I think the minister forgot to answer the question about Jyllinge Nordmark, but we can then take that in the second round. But what is the reason for this? What is the explanation that proves that people and citizens in Denmark, who happen to be neighbouring a private project and not a joint municipal project, must be legally different, in addition to that there is some procedure that the Minister would seem too extensive if they were to be treated as equals? After all, I believe that the model that has been developed for the community is reasonable enough. It's not like there's a whole bunch of complaints. There's just access to a full review of the case. I have yet to hear the Minister explain why private projects are not allowed to do so. I don't understand why you don't do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113230	I have now given that explanation to three rapporteurs, and I will not repeat it. But I'd like to answer Mr. Simon Kollerup on the relationship out in Jyllinge Nordmark. I do not think I have said that this is a private project. It is a very complicated project and there are a large number of players in that project. We want such projects to be simpler in the future. We have sent out a very clear signal on this and it is going to happen now. We shall then see whether the Socialists support it or not. Of course, we hope they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113255	Thank you to the Minister for today's work so far. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113329	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113340	Thank you. In social democracy, we consider the idea of targeted regulation to be a flower that has grown in our own backyard. It was the Social Democrat-led government that set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which proposed the targeted nitrogen regulation in its 2013 report. The current government also mentions it even in the policy agreement on targeted regulation from 18 January 2018, which states: •The recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission were met with broad support in the Folketing and among stakeholders, and since the Commission published its recommendations, changing governments have been working to develop targeted regulation. ▪ First, it was proposed in the Socialist Food Growth Plan, then it was included in the food and agriculture package, and now it has got its own agreement. In the Social Democratic Party we are somewhat incomprehensible about the way in which the government chooses to go with the narrowest possible majority for an agreement on targeted regulation. We in the Social Democratic Party have shown a great willingness to cooperate and to negotiate with the government in this area, and yet the government skipped the goal and made a narrow settlement with the uncertainties that it now entails. It is not beneficial for the industry, nor is it beneficial for the environment. After a number of years of general regulation marked by changing governments and a zigzag course in agricultural policy, the broad agreements and a stable framework are needed. That is why it is pointless for the government to leave out parties that really want to be part of a sensible project. Agriculture & Food, the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Social Democratic Party have all sought the widest possible agreement, but the government went narrow and invented its own distinctive form of parliamentarianism. For it is usually the case that we as parties in the Folketing can negotiate with the government together with the responsible Resort Minister. And it was actually sensible. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and Food for this from the Chair of Parliament. In fact, we ended up with an agreement text on the table, with only one small square brackets, one thing that had to be clarified, namely a completely cash question of 25 million. kr. Everything else was in place. But for the government, one representative of the government was not enough, and that is why the old saying that too many chefs spoil the food, unfortunately all too much for the process here. The Prime Minister, who also heads the government, bears special responsibility for this. However, this should not remove the focus from the fact that we are very much in favour of targeted regulation. It is the case that, when you are a conciliation party, you have the opportunity to participate in the work that is preparing a bill like this. There is another way to get assistance from the Minister's office, and that is the way it should be. However, it does, of course, impose some other requirements on parties that do not participate in a conciliation circle when a technical, complex and landmark legislative proposal such as what we are working on now is discussed in this Chamber. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is important that the bill reflects the concerns that we believe should be taken into account in the work on targeted regulation. And we will use the committee work to get much deeper into that. At the same time, I will insist that it is important for us to continue to be able to provide the widest possible support for targeted regulation. When we talk about a real paradigm for agriculture, we want to be able to lay the foundations for a broad agreement either now, if the government is minded or when another possibility arises. Today, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I call on the government to engage in dialogue and to create the widest possible political foundation under the targeted regulation. We call for and hope that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, will accept the extended hand of a meeting. We understand that he has had a particular interest in the subject. With those words, I will be able to announce our final position on the legislative proposal at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113824	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113829	The fact that it is such a very narrow agreement that is now in place gives us the opportunity to adjust this targeted regulation after a choice if it is the case that there is a red majority, and we in the Enhedslist are very interested in adjusting it here. We are also at the forefront of targeted regulation. I have noted that it is now being opened up to burn manure. I think it seems completely ridiculous when we are in a situation where commercial manure is imported, which is used on the fields of 200,000 tonnes of fertilizer is used out there that you will then come up with a bill that opens up the way for manure to be burned off. I think this is an issue on which adjustments should be made and which should be abolished. As far as I can see, there is not even a requirement for what filters should be on those incinerators if you go in that direction. Does the rapporteur not see that there may be some elements in the proposal here which should rightly be adjusted after a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413113935	I think it will always be that way when you make a settlement, so that there will be things that you are really happy about, and things that you learn to love and that you might not at first be so happy about. It also gives itself, as the rapporteur asks, in the first place, that when you are not bound to conciliation, there is, of course, another possibility of a slightly more freer approach to the text. Now we are not bound by the conciliation in the Social Democratic Party, and that is why, as things develop, we will be able to react differently to it. We think that this was a sensible agreement made at the office of the Minister for the Environment and Food at the end of December, and we are behind it, if the government wants to do so, also with the elements that the rapporteur is taking forward here. In fact, what I really think is the most important thing is that we should have a broad political agreement. Because when you are a party to the agreement or a conciliation party, you can discuss the individual means of action, the individual elements that form part of it if you have a desire to do so. But the industry is best placed to have a broad and solid foundation under something as fundamental for the whole of agriculture as the paradigm of targeted regulation, and therefore I just appeal once again to the government to accept the extended hand for a dialogue on the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114054	Yes, it was interesting to hear that there was such a small square parentheses of 25 million, which apparently was an outstanding one, which then was not entirely clear in the process there was. I would like to take a critical view of the fact that it is now proposed that farmers should be compensated financially if they are, like, going to pollute less. In other words, we have other professions in Denmark, where environmental requirements are sometimes tightened up and where the industry has to live with it. Here it is proposed that money should be given to farmers in order to pollute less and that it should then be taken from rural funds, which we could certainly find a lot of good things to use for. Can the rapporteur not see that there are some inappropriate things in which to go and spend a very large part of the rural funds for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114138	I would like to start by saying, if there are listeners and wondering what damn square brackets are, that it is, after all, when there is a subject that is still missing for such final clarification. The square brackets were then removed, and so the agreement was nodded. Then there was something else that would have been taken out at a different level in the government. So it's just for that part of the economy. I can see that farmers can be compensated for making efforts to benefit the environment. You don't have to overcompensate. I think you get just enough after the crop model, as things stand now, but when you come in and use the rural programme, you are also in a mode where it is about actual expenditure, and that is a level that I think is appropriate for the possible compensation of the farmers who have to deliver an effort here. In other words, actual expenditure is an appropriate level, and that is within the requirements of the rural programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114232	Thank you, sir. Kollerup, and welcome to Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114243	Thank you. After all, this bill is of great importance, as it is part of the food and agriculture package from 2015 and of an agreement on targeted regulation from January 2018. We have spent a great deal of time on this over the winter, and now we have to get it flying, and it is actually quite right what the Social Democrat rapporteur said, that we would have liked a broad agreement. We would have liked the Social Democratic Party to join us, and it was with great surprise that they went five minutes to twelve, because we were actually in complete agreement on this agreement. So I think it's very strange. But one can say that the modern word paradigm change comes to its right here. Because when we move from general regulation to targeted regulation, it is a big shift. We introduced with the targeted post-crop scheme the shift from general to geographically targeted action. The nitrogen effort is targeted in areas where there is a need for effort, so in those areas where nitrogen reduction efforts are needed to protect coastal water or groundwater, the Minister is authorised to lay down a requirement. So farmers look after the environment and can choose from different means. It may be catch crops or early sowing. It is intended that the targeted regulation will be organised with new instruments as we acquire new knowledge about measurements. For this work, farmers can apply for compensation... as we have heard about earlier... for voluntary establishment of nitrogen reducing instruments. Targeted catch crops have been successful. Only if the environmental impact is not achieved by the voluntary scheme will a mandatory post-crop requirement be laid down, where there will then be no compensation. The otherwise mostly positive consultation responses have led to a change in the legal notes on the incineration of manure, as one of the rapporteurs noted earlier, as regards the deduction of nitrogen and phosphorus from manure accounts in cases where manure is incinerated or disposed of for incineration. So just with the brief comments, I can say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal, which we ourselves have been involved in drafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114519	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114530	I simply get a little confused about this and about what the Danish People's Party has been told by the government. For now I was on the sidelines following the work of the Social Democratic Party very closely and the negotiations and wondering whether we should join ourselves, and there was, in fact, almost a state of shock in the Social Democratic Party when we were told that we could not be involved. So it sounds as if the Danish People's Party has received another message from the government that social democracy would not be included. Would the rapporteur not like to elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114558	The President would like to give the floor to the Social Democratic Party, but that is outside the Rules of Procedure. So that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114607	That sounds so weird. Because there is no doubt, and no one was in any doubt that we wanted the Social Democrats to be included in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114627	Well, it's just before we can reopen the agreement at this point and see if we should make a broad agreement if the Danish People's Party has this desire for breadth. For then we have a majority which can say to the government that we want a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114641	What made the Socialists not part of this agreement was that the Socialists wanted more parties to be included in the agreement. But we did not want that; we wanted the Socialists to come along.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114653	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114658	It is in some way the working people's government that you do not want to make agreements with someone who is in some kind of bathroom or whatever it may be. I think it's a little weird. It is clear that a majority has the opportunity to do what the majority wants, and it has also been interesting to follow the process we have had by an alternative majority outside the government in the fisheries sector. It is just before that that there could be an alternative majority here in the field of nitrogen and targeted regulation. Now that the Danish People's Party wants to include the Social Democracy, we could quickly make an alternative majority here. I have a simple question about the burning of manure. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a little strange to import a lot of fertilizers while opening up the way for the manure we already have from our livestock to be burned off instead of using it as fertilizer in the fields? It's the wrong way to go. We have come across it in the Netherlands on a study trip once, and agriculturally it just seems totally ridiculous. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114812	There may be something in it, but this has become part of this deal, so we'll take the pissed off with the cute one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114824	At least that's one thing we could probably get out if there was another agreement. I often find that agriculture is far too square, that one is not open to changing one's crop rotation, that one has to adjust one's cultivation after it starts raining more in Denmark, that if one runs one's farm close to a stream, one has to adapt to it. If you have so much manure that you think you should burn it off, some people will do so if they are allowed to do so, but we must then come up with more sustainable holistic solutions where you get that manure applied instead of importing 200,000 tonnes of nitrogen from abroad. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114901	Targeted regulation means that something is allowed in some parts of the country and that in other parts of the country there are some other means that you can use or are possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114915	Then we have established contact with Mr. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413114919	Thank you. I think there was some kind of technique that teased a little, but that's fine. I hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that we were in complete agreement on the agreement. That is also my impression of the agreement that was reached shortly before Christmas. There was a lack of this square parentheses that we have now learned a little about today. It was repealed and the content then entered into as part of the agreement. If today the Danish People's Party wants to stand by the agreement that we made shortly before Christmas, we will also be happy with the Social Democrats, and then there is a basis for a very broad consensus on the targeted regulation. That is why my question is this: does the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party think that something is wrong with the Prime Minister having a meeting with the Social Democrat about the agreement we all agree on from shortly before Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115012	No, the rapporteur has no problem with that. I have never concealed the fact that I wanted the Socialists to be included in this agreement so that we could have as broad an agreement as possible, because it would give farmers more peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115031	I'm glad. I hope we can send a transcript to the PM so he'll consider over there if it wasn't worth a cup of coffee. What I am also hearing from the rapporteur is that we actually agree with what we in the Socialist Group wanted, namely that other parties, apart from the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, which want to join the agreement, could well be allowed to do so, just as conciliation parties with veto rights, but as parties with no right of veto. But they could sit at the table and be part of the discussions. It was kind of important to us. That is the difference between the agreement before Christmas, to which I would like to return, so that we can share this and take the coffee with the Prime Minister, and then the new agreement. So I actually hear that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has no problem with, that is, that the other parties can join as long as it is without a right of veto. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115117	I can say this very briefly: yes, I am fine with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115121	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech and warmly welcome to Mr Lise Bech. Erling Bonnesen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115133	Thank you. In Denmark we look after drinking water very well, and we must of course continue to do so, and this bill also contributes to that. I am pleased that the environmental and health authorities have established that there are no health problems or any other problems with the Danish drinking water. And I am very pleased that we can continue to say that we can all safely drink the water directly from the tap. There is good work in the Danish food cluster and the Danish food sector. Many Danes prefer food produced in Denmark because it is possible to count on quality and food safety, but also because production has taken place responsibly as far as the environment is concerned. It is not only at home that Danish food producers are seen as guarantors of quality and high food safety, because this is seen in the large foreign demand. The food industry brings back huge export earnings every year, which can be converted into welfare and jobs throughout the country. In addition to the great demand at home and from our traditional export markets in the EU and the US, we also see new markets with great growth potential in Asia and the Middle East, where a growing population and middle class now also have the opportunity to buy Danish quality food. The demand is there, and it is almost only a question of whether the Danish producers can keep up. With the agreement on the food and agriculture package, we have given Danish farmers the opportunity to add more nitrogen to their plants without harming the environment, and by destroying the under-utilisation they can respond more to the high demand, because production will then also increase. This is part of the reason why the food cluster's exports have once again set a record in 2017 and again without damage to the environment. The increased use of nitrogen only has a beneficial effect on production if it is absorbed by plants and is not washed out or damaged by the aquatic environment. With the targeted regulation that we are now dealing with here, we are taking this into account, by adapting and focusing the nitrogen reduction measures, so that the effort takes place where it is needed. It provides as much environment as possible for money, and the shift from general rules to more tailor-made regulation marks precisely the important paradigm shift, which is part of the crank in this. It also ends with the false contradiction that has existed between the development of food production and a good and healthy environment, the drinking water and water environment. It doesn't have to be a either-or. It's a boat-and-a-boat. We must both be able to farm in Denmark and take good care of the environment. I think there is a great deal of agreement on that. With the bill here, which we are dealing with firsthand today, nitrogen regulation in agriculture becomes more flexible for the benefit of both farmers and the environment. Farmers will have the opportunity to choose the nitrogen reducing instruments themselves as they are developed, which are the most cost-effective and environmentally efficient in their production and locality. There is also a continuing development work to be done on this. The bill is based on cooperation and voluntaryness. Farmers in areas with special needs have the opportunity to apply for compensation for the voluntary establishment of nitrogen reduction measures and, if they do not aim to reduce nitrogen by voluntary means, they will be supplemented by a mandatory requirement for targeted post-harvest crops. A more targeted and flexible regulation that gives farmers robust soils and the opportunity to increase their production by adding more of the nourishment that plants need, while at the same time taking action in the areas where they need it, creating room for continued growth and development in the food and agricultural sector, while at the same time taking good care of the environment. With targeted regulation, strong food production and a healthy aquatic environment go hand in hand, and that is why the Confederal Group of the European United Left is voting in favour of the proposal. I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115558	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115602	We came a long way, didn't we? The rapporteur said that we should take care of drinking water. Now it is the case that there are pesticide residues in 25%. of our drinking water wells, so I think there is something that indicates that agriculture has not adequately looked after our common groundwater. We have also recently heard that there is an increased risk of cancer with nitrate levels in certain regions of Denmark. So I think we are in a situation where we have not taken good care of our drinking water and where, on the part of society, we have not had enough demands on agriculture so that they have been able to reduce their pesticide use and their nitrate use. So with the approach that the rapporteur had on this matter, I am a little worried. It is as if everything in agriculture is going well. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a problem when there are pesticide residues in so much of our groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115701	As I also indicated at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, we are very careful with groundwater and drinking water in Denmark, and we must continue to do so. Then there are some challenges, and we have dealt with them too. And I am also pleased that we can see that there are trends that the 20-30 year-old effort that has now been made in this area has borne fruit. There are also, we might say, indications that some of the measurements made on the other layers of soil now show a decrease in the findings which the questioner has also mentioned, and that is, in fact, a good thing. This suggests that it is now only a matter of time before, if I may say so, we see even more good results. So from here a clear indication that we must, of course, continue to take good care of our drinking water and groundwater. And I am very pleased that even in the debates that are about it, the environmental and health authorities have reported on several occasions that there are no health problems with it. The explanation is enough, and it is therefore good that the measuring instruments today are much more advanced and can measure almost everything that we could not do years ago. It also makes it possible to register more. However, based on the studies and the reports I have seen so far, I am glad that we can still tell the Danes, firmly in our voice, that they can safely drink the water directly from the tap.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115828	Now we are here today with the bill that introduces targeted regulation, and that is what we think in the Enhedslisten is good. We have just wondered why the agricultural package started by allowing farmers to use more nitrogen on their fields. And then it's only a few years after you come up with a system to try to deal with it. So there is a risk that, for a few years, we will be able to have increased pollution before we come up with a slightly more intelligent system. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a problem that the agricultural package has been dealt with in this way instead of introducing targeted regulation before allowing some farmers to fertilise more?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115908	Well, it is not right, as the questioner puts it here, and I think the questioner is also fully aware of how the directives have been put together in this area. We simply must not go backwards in terms of the level of environmental protection, and I think the questioner is also fully aware of this. Of course we do not, and I can therefore also refer to the efforts already made in the past. What we are dealing with now is from 2019, and it is also clear from the case file how it is related. So it is just an emphasis, which I think the questioner is well aware of, that we simply cannot drive backwards, and we could never do that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115940	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413115944	Thank you. I am delighted that the rapporteur attaches importance to the story that we must take care of our groundwater, we must look after nature, and we have a fantastic story for the moment that ecology is developing insanely quickly. We're up to 10%. Last year we had a change of 41,000 hectares and there has been a sharp increase. The package which has just come from the government today, and which the rapporteur is therefore also involved in, is, after all, slowing down a little. Isn't it a pity that you turn down from 41,000 ha to about 33,000 ha, knowing that this is the most effective means of protecting groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120028	Then I really realized what the alternative means. That means putting things completely on the head, because then the rapporteur for the alternative simply misunderstood it by plus and minus. We are further boostering ecology, and I am also proud of this as a Leftman, because then we will follow up on what an increasing number of consumers want. It is absolutely correct that we reach about approx. 10% I believe that it is for the Left and the Liberals to decide for themselves what to do in the shopping basket and on the plate, and when it is for consumers to want more ecology, we give the opportunity for farmers and food companies to produce it so that they can choose it when they go shopping. So it's a boost. And just for enlightenment for the Alternative: Look at the plus and minus once, because it's gotta be a slip.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120120	I've looked into it. I even figured it out. After all, I am an engineer, and I can clearly see that it is stated that you are at a level that is an average of the last three years, and since the last year was the highest level, it is, of course, that you are at a slightly lower level than where we were last year. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur something about the legislative proposal that we are discussing, and it is here that it is actually possible to postpone part of a company's post-crop requirements, especially on large farms, in other words where there is a great need. Isn't that a problem? How, then, will nature be safeguarded in this context when the Minister can postpone that kind of thing by giving permission to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120205	Just to start with, I just noticed that the rapporteur himself said that it was something of an average over some time and in that way. And as a former accountant, I would say that if you add up and divide enough times, you can get the result out of what you almost want in such performances. I understand that this is what has been done in the alternative. I am glad that we are still following up on what is the consumer's wish, namely that we want to have more organic products on our shelves. As far as the protection of our drinking water and our groundwater are concerned, I am glad that, precisely with this legislative proposal, we can say with a clear vote that we must now stop the false environmental debate, which the alternative has repeatedly been aimed at, where it is said that it is either agriculture or the environment. No, it's both-and. We can still produce the world's best food here and at the same time take good care of our environment so that we can still drink the water directly from the tap and that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120301	Sir. Søren Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120303	Thank you, sir. President. I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the left whether the rapporteur sees a problem in the fact that the Social Democrats could join the agreement as a conciliation party and that the other red parties in the Folketing could join as parties to the agreement, without having a proper veto clause in this agreement on targeted regulation. I ask because, in this way, we could ensure a width which also ensures a stable framework for farmers, ensuring the broadest possible political support for targeted regulation. So does the rapporteur have any doubts about that construction, or could it be a way of creating the widest possible political majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120348	Well, I'm surprised, because when we look in retrospect about the course that was going on, we could see the Social Democracy running in and in from the premises a little bit pictorially. They were good in a long way, but then they ran, when the nails were about to be beaten. I think that is a pity, and I have also noted that the Socialist rapporteur thinks it is a pity, but it would certainly not be a part of it. If it is the case that you want to join now, then you have to try to knock, and then you have to see what can come out of such a process. I may then wonder if you have as a condition that others should also be involved. I do not know why this approach has been adopted by the Social Democrats. I assume that the rapporteur speaks only on behalf of his own party, and if the Social Democrats specifically want to be involved, one must try to knock on the door, because that is the political work, and then one must see where such a thing can lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120444	At any rate, I am ready to give the undertaking that we would be happy to support the agreement that we agreed on there at the end of December last year before we went on Christmas holidays, and in that agreement there was that the Social Democratic Party could join as the Conciliation Party and it is true that I can only speak on my own behalf but there would then be an opportunity for the other parties of the Folketing to be able to join the same agreement, but just as the contracting party, that is. without a right of veto. It is in this context that I am just asking the rapporteur, because I cannot quite see whether the rapporteur thinks there is a problem in that design. If the rapporteur on the Left is prepared to stand up for the agreement we reached at the end of December, then we will be in the Social Democratic Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120522	After all, we are in the habit of allowing specific negotiations to take place at the negotiating table. But what I, as the rapporteur of the Left, can say here is what I also highlighted in the answer before, namely that I am surprised that the Socialists ran out of the room at the last minute, and here I feel like the rapporteur of the Left, that if we are going to have some momentum, then we are going to have to move on to it, but if it is the case that the Social Democrats say that they have really regretted that they ran out of the room and want to go back in, then they must try to knock on the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120555	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. And the next farmer on the podium is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413120608	It may be that some people can once write an exciting story about this process. What I want to start my rapporteur's speech on the draft law with is a comment that, in December 2015, a few days before Christmas, the blue block reached an agreement on the agricultural package very quickly. The haste was due to the fact that all in the world the legal basis had to be clear so that farmers could be allowed to pour more manure on the fields in the next growing season. However, as we know, haste is often carried, and later a very unsightly picture has emerged of the process, which contained both a misdirection of the Folketing; unheard of pressure on researchers to legitimize the agricultural package; a dirty environmental account that should make the package appear green in all years; a minister who went off and great uncertainty about very key elements of the basis of calculation. One of the crucial elements that should bring up the accounts of the agricultural package was the targeted regulation that we are dealing with today. At that time, however, no specific regulation was in place, and it is only now almost two and a half years later that we have an agreement on targeted regulation in place. In addition to all the problems associated with the agricultural package in relation to the very uncertain basis of assessment and the fact that we are faced with a huge extra emissions of thousands of tonnes of nitrogen into the marine environment, it is also an extremely poor political craftsmanship that we are adopting an agricultural package that allows farmers to pour more manure on the field before the targeted regulation is in place with the uncertainty that can result from this. Having said that, the Enhedslisten is a great advocate of achieving targeted agricultural regulation. The Enhedslisten has been working for a number of years to get started with targeted regulation and to meet the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission on targeted regulation. The Enhedslisten therefore supports in principle the paradigm shift introduced by the bill, where farmers will in future have different environmental requirements depending on how vulnerable or robust their land is and what distance there is to the aquatic environment. However, we believe that the level of ambition in dealing with nitrogen pollution is too low in relation to the challenges we face when it comes to our aquatic environment. In addition, we see a number of problems in the draft law. With the agricultural package, farmers, among other things, must: It is now necessary to compensate them financially in order to take measures to reduce nitrogen pollution. Other companies are not paid to clean up their pollution; it is just a requirement. This is an element which we consider unacceptable in principle, but it is possible that a solution could be found if parts of agricultural aid to rural areas were doubled. We believe that, in this respect, there are a number of uncertainties about the funds to be used for compensation, as from 2020, rural funds will be taken from them. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the EU will accept that rural funds are used as financial compensation for farmers in order not to pollute. If that is not possible, the money will have to be found elsewhere and there are no alternatives to it yet. I have not heard that the government has addressed in the processes that have been so far. Then there is the possibility of postponing some catch crops, and we think this is inappropriate. If you look at the latest figures from 2016, you can see that 62,400 tonnes of nitrogen are emitted to the Danish coastal areas, which shows that we are already hopelessly behind in achieving the target, which is a 42,000 tonnes discharge per year to the marine environment. It is also in this context that it is quite unreasonable to work on putting new marine farms into the sea. We think that the possibility of postponing after-crops will make it even worse and we think that we should be strict in this area. We take note of the fact that this bill is the implementation of a very narrow political agreement and that, in a way, agriculture needs us to have some stability about the political framework conditions that exist for the sector. In conclusion, the Enhedslisten is therefore in favour of targeted regulation; it is a good means of action which must be implemented as soon as possible. However, we have a number of concerns and reservations about the draft legislation before us. We therefore choose not to take a final position on the draft law at this stage, but hope that a number of amendments to improve the proposal can be agreed in the further examination of the draft law. And it would probably be even better if we had it approved only after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121127	There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and welcome to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121134	Thank you, sir. President. The draft law we are discussing here marks the now much-mentioned paradigm shift in the environmental regulation of Danish agriculture. However, it is actually natural for me to see that we are now moving away from general regulation and towards targeted regulation in the field of environmental regulation. The resolution actually dates back to the Blue Block agreement on the food and agriculture package, which provided an opportunity to improve the economic framework for agriculture without compromising environmental efforts over time. This has in the past been the result of a targeted and voluntary post-crop scheme, but now, on the basis of a new agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, it is again tempted to add to really targeted regulation at so-called ID15 level, so that we can organise environmental regulation very specifically according to actual local conditions. We give the individual farmer greater freedom to choose different nitrogen reducing measures, and the options in the form of new instruments will also be even greater in the future. In the slightly longer term, technological developments will hopefully lead to even more targeted nitrogen regulation, because in the future we will be able to make much more detailed measurements, hopefully right down to the individual field. We need to be ready to seize those opportunities from a legislative point of view, and that is one of them. That too is a first step towards this proposal for a directive. With those words, I would just like to say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121336	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121348	As I think all the other rapporteurs have also been told, we are generally in favour of converting to targeted regulation. It makes sense to regulate according to conditions rather than across the board. Much of this agricultural package has been about this, but there is always the situation where the devil lies in detail, and that is also the situation here: how do we create solutions that produce the right results? We started this day in Parliament with a case concerning de minimis aid which was granted illegally and which must be repaid. One of the concerns about this proposal is that the system that is in it may end up with an aid scheme that is at odds with the de minimis rules. This is one of the concerns that I would just like to highlight here. It is actually Agriculture & Food itself that mentions it, but also the Danish Conservation Association. Another problem is that in this scheme there is the possibility that if a farmer is above certain limit values, he may be allowed to postpone his efforts. I just had to read it twice because I thought it was a sort of small limit, but this is actually the opposite. If you are on the high end, you may be allowed to postpone your efforts. After all, this poses some major problems, because the required reductions, which it is very important to implement in those areas where there are major reduction needs, are being pushed ahead of us. There is absolutely no guarantee that we will achieve the objectives we must achieve. Finally, I would like to highlight what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has also pointed out that it is now opening up the burning of various fertiliser resources here and even in incineration plants or incineration plants, it is changing from an environmentally approved plant to incinerate waste. And that means that we can suddenly have the incineration of resources that we should make better use of, for example. in biogasification, but even incineration at plants for which there are no environmental requirements. So all in all, I am very sceptical about this proposal and, as it stands right now, we are leaning towards voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121630	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413121637	Today, we are dealing with a proposal for targeted regulation, which is, of course, an initiative in which I personally, but also the previous government, have very large shares. After all, we set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission and actually tried to bring together both the greens and the agriculture, so that we would not be in this eternal fight against each other, but that we might be able to make a plan for Denmark that could focus on creating both strong and sustainable agriculture in Denmark, while at the same time ensuring that it was within nature's tolerance limits, that we could have clean water, and that we could have a vibrant and strong nature. And by thinking both together, we hoped with the Nature and Agriculture Commission that we could agree on a way forward together. It went really well, actually. We made a lot of alliances that hadn't been there before. You got out of this really bad trenchhole between the green interests and agriculture because you listened to each other and were looking for a balance in what you were doing. Then came a series of recommendations which the Commission very clearly said had to be kept together so that things were done at once. And it was then at this point that we started to set the Nature Fund in motion and protect section 3 areas and at the same time started to make targeted regulation when it was ready. Then there was a change of government, and then the balanced approach was over. That's the end of involvement. Then came a 16-point plan, which had been adopted by a tiny majority, and it just had to be rolled through. We negotiated and tried to see if we could do better and see if we could reach each other and bring in some improvements if the government would like to go forward with this. As you know, this collapsed, so the agricultural package was adopted by a very narrow majority. So it was because it was these 16 initiatives that had to be run through, take it or leave it, by the government. From that time on, the ditches of God have reappeared. It's gotten really hard to talk to each other. The lack of balance and the desire to involve and meet each other have been particularly evident in this process of targeted regulation, because the government wanted to call only one party for negotiations by the opposition, and all of us were apparently so poisonous that, although we said that all right, we are actually willing to go in and join in some of the things that lie here, although we think that there could be clear improvements, one would not. That is to say, the desire to get the breadth of this, get something that can hold that can be long, clearly the government did not have in the negotiations on targeted regulation. There was no desire for a broad settlement. We did not want a stable framework for agriculture in the future. And if there are farmers out there who are disappointed in it, I really, really understand it. If there is green and a society out there that is disappointed and awkward that one didn't make the great compromise of the Nature and Agriculture Commission and got all the natural concerns with, while at the same time doing these things to get an agriculture that could produce more where the land can tolerate it, and less where it can't tolerate it, yes, then I understand it too. And on the part of the Radical Left we are very, very sorry, and personally I am really, really sorry that the Nature and Agriculture Commission was driven into the ditch in the way it was when a new government came. The proposal before us today contains some excellent things, because it has a view of how targeted regulation can look. Some good things have also been brought in, that is to say, that you will get the retention in when it is ready. And there are things in this that are certainly very reasonable. However, in relation to the proposal as it stands, there are some things in what we think are unfortunate, among other things. that we have not really used the tool called land set aside, also because there are a lot of people out there who know that if we can get the economy right in this area, instead of solving it with something that has to be done every year, with these after-crops, it might be better to take some land out of service and say that this land is not very productive anyway. It can both collect nitrogen, it can become nature, it can provide climate benefits, it can perhaps be used for hunting and tourism, so that we get it thought together and take some country out of service in an economically sensible way rather than want to deal with these after-crops in particular. In addition, funding is also that it is no longer the polluter who pays. This is where society has been left to pay the bill again, and that was not the intention. After all, the intention was to say that there are some who get a gain when you make targeted regulation, and then there are some who get a loss, and we have to even that out. Now, instead of saying that some private people are getting a profit, the deficit is covering society. That was not the intention of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. So we are very sceptical about the design that lies here, and we are ambitious about the fact that we have not reached a broad agreement and created a stable framework, and that we could not find a way to balance the climate and environment with a strong agriculture, when we now had the opportunity and the whole process was done under the former S-R-SF government. I would also like to greet the SF, who cannot be here today, and say that they stand in the same place as Radicals and are very sceptical about this bill with the comments I have made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122148	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. And then we've come to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122158	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the examination and comments of the rapporteurs. I always find it so interesting about the storywriting that Mrs Ida Auken embarks on. She says it was the end of the shore when the government came to. And despite that, Mrs Ida Auken could sit and negotiate until the very last night before the agreement was made. So it was no more the end of the breadth than that one could be involved in a whole course of negotiations until there was an agreement that Mrs Ida Auken could not then be part of. Sometimes I wonder whether Mrs Ida Auken is wondering at such a quiet moment whether you are part of the solution or part of the problem, in other words, in relation to the influence of the Radicals on environmental and food policy. Because the land set aside that Mrs Ida Auken addresses is not right. After all, we have set aside 90 million. kr. to the package, of which the removal of land is an essential part, so that we strengthen the environmental part of it. And nature's tolerance limits have every reason to support Mrs Ida Auken, in other words, in relation to the agreement that exists, because the government could not have obtained a cattle exemption or got its things through in the European Union if it were not for us to comply with the directives and then there is no connection in Mrs Ida Au's explanations. Therefore, it is also a happy day that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is now making a fantastic nitrogen regulation of agriculture with a paradigm change that has been founded with the food and agriculture package and now implemented as a follow-up. Also commended to Mr. Simon Kollerup, who said that the foundation stone was laid with among others. The Nature and Agriculture Commission and that it was something that had been in demand for years by a large number of players. And that is why we are happy to pass on the credit for part of the preparatory work that has been done in relation to the way of regulation. The targeted regulation does what has been demanded for years: to allow for more places where the soil is strong and less places where the environment needs to be dealt with in particular. That is why we are also using it as an active part of our efforts to implement directives. With the agreement that we have gotten in place with the Danish People's Party and I would like to thank you for the always constructive approach to this area, it is a pleasure to work with you to solve these challenges.We now have the most advanced and modern regulation of the impact of agriculture on the environment that you can imagine in this world. And the model builds on our positive experience with the targeted crop model, where the industry has shown in 2017 that it can deliver the necessary environmental efforts through volunteering. If it is up to the parties to the agreement, it is the first generation of targeted regulation of agriculture, and we have a desire to go much further along that path with the development of new instruments, with the development of measurement methods, etc. etc. The model for targeted regulation in 2019 is such that it will actually contribute to the improvement of water bodies corresponding to a nitrogen reduction of 3,500 tonnes up to 2021, which is also described in the river basin management plans, including 1,167 tonnes already in 2019. And then the model implies that Denmark is divided into approx. 3,000 areas are what we call ID15 areas and how much nitrogen emissions need to be reduced in each area to protect and improve groundwater and surface water. I am proud as Minister, together with the Danish People's Party, to be able to deliver a historic change in the Danish environmental and food regulation. And we look forward to the further work of making it even more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122528	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122533	Thank you. There are, in fact, two things that can be seen from the DN consultation responses. One is to relax the requirements for incineration plants on which manure will be burned. Why? There is a risk that there will be a major increase in pollution by substances such as chlorine, dioxin and so on. Dioxins are caused by low temperature combustion, and this will typically be the case in a non-approved incineration plant. The second point is that the Minister is given the opportunity to postpone companies' claims if they are at the very end. How will the Minister ensure that we reach the targets for those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122622	Thank you for the questions. In fact, I am somewhat surprised by the criticism that Mr. Christian Poll puts the voice around burning, because the burning of fibre fraction has already been used as an instrument back from 2010 onwards, but it has then been to a limited extent. So I am very surprised that both DN and Mr. Christian Poll votes for it, because it has an environmental effect both in relation to nitrogen and phosphorus, because the plants absorb more nitrogen from the manure when the fibre fraction is sorted out, and thus the fields are spared part of the nitrogen that would otherwise have been washed out to the aquatic environment. So this is an flagrant misconception of the Danish Nature Conservation Association when you talk about the burning of fibre fraction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122708	I'm not really questioning the burning itself. I question, as DN also does in their consultation answer, why the phrase "environmentally approved plant" that incinerates waste is changed to the phrase "incinerator" or "incinerator." That's where the difference lies. It seems to want to relax the requirements of the incineration plant used in these contexts, and that is where you can get a larger emission of more dangerous substances into the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122742	We are so concerned about not having an increased environmental impact compared to the way we handle our fibre fraction. So I wouldn't be worried if I were sir. Christian Poll, but Mr. Christian Poll is welcome to send a written question, and then I would very much like to explain the context of it, so neither he nor the Danish Nature Conservation Association go wrong in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122758	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122802	After all, there are some farmers who need some compensation, and that is the rural funds they want to use in this context. I can see today that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has some ecology that you would like to promote, and there may be other parts in the development of agriculture in Denmark that you want to promote with rural funds. I recently saw an inventory of where we were in relation to other EU countries in terms of using the opportunity to use rural funds, and that we could sort of double the rural funds in Denmark and thus get a more • what should you say • focused modelling of our agriculture. I really believe that if you did so, then it was the very largest farms that did not receive so much aid per hectare, they already have a large-scale advantage, then you could get more out of EU funds. Can the Minister not see that there could be an advantage in increasing our percentage of rural resources in our agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122904	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I think my sharp eyes see that there are laws eco on Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's T-shirt, probably also inspired by the alternative party chairman, and I find this gratifying on a day when the government and the Danish People's Party are giving a historic boost to ecology. 150 football fields every day in the last two years have been converted into ecology, and now we are lifting it by 1.1 billion. kr. for the next few years. So ecology is so much to be welcomed. This can contribute to inter alia: rural development. That also leads me to the answer to the second part of the question. No, we see the solution in the converted support when we come to negotiating a new CAP reform in the European Union in order to have a greater modulation between pillar 1 and pillar 2 funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413122949	I would like to warn against converting football fields into organic farming. You really get the whole association field on your neck if you choose that effort. I think that we should instead take traditional industrial agriculture and convert it into organic farming. I would like to call on the Minister to go for it instead of changing football fields, although, of course, I believe that in order to ensure that our groundwater is not sprayed on football fields. I think it is essential that we have a thorough discussion about what these rural funds are used for and whether we could not get more out of them if we increased the percentage. I see that the wish list of wanting to do good deeds in agriculture is long, and I think that we can do that better if we prioritise rural funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413123031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413123033	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. For fear of being called in consultation on the 150 football fields, I would like to say to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen that it is an area equivalent to 150 football fields. It is not the case that we go in the country of association and remove the football fields. It's just if somebody's got it wrong. It is clear that one can always discuss how to prioritise one's rural resources. We believe that we have a good balance today on the part of the government, and we also believe that the way to use the pillars, hopefully after the forthcoming agricultural reform in the European Union, will provide the tool that we need as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413123107	Thank you to the Minister for today's work. There are no more brief comments As no one else has asked for the floor, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180413123125	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 April 2018, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
