ParlaMint-DK_20181211130056	The meeting is open. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211130113	Thank you. Today we again have an extended Question Time, i.e. also with the North Atlantic mandates, and this gives me the opportunity to say that I am pleased with the Financial Act of this year's agreement. That is what is needed, and I think that is important. The idea is that especially the young people must meet across our three countries, Denmark, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and have experiences and perhaps even, I hope, friendships, break down prejudices, build understanding and respect. The specific initiatives include: grants for young people's study trips and folk high school stays and a pool for television and documentary films. There are also a number of initiatives relating to training, for example: a competition for specialties with themes related to the Kingdom Community. I look forward to all of this getting under way, and I would like to thank you for the very broad support that has been given to this effort, by the political parties of the Folketing, but also by the Faroese Layerman and the Home Rule President of Greenland and the North Atlantic mandates. In the same ball street I would also like to sign for the broad support for the agreement on a Danish contribution to a new airport in Greenland and a strengthened business cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. With that, I could unfold my thanks, because it's the last question hour of this calendar year. Short and long time has passed. It is not that long ago that there was an opening debate, but it still feels like a long time, because we have actually received a lot of important agreements. It's been a busy fall. Let me just mention some of what we have got through: a help package for agriculture after the very dry and very sunny summer.Thank you to a broad majority who has been behind it; a new food settlement that maintains Denmark's uniquely high food security.Thank you to all of the Danish Parliament's parties for supporting it. We have come up with a comprehensive climate and air project with a clearly ambitious goal of stopping the sale of new traditional petrol and diesel cars after 2030, and surely we also have a legitimate expectation that on the way there we will now have a proper solution for the electric cars for the first two years until we put the very precise travel plan forward to the ambitious goal. A broad political agreement has been reached whereby we are eightfolding the fines imposed on the largest financial companies for infringements of the rules on money laundering. We have reached a broad agreement in order to get more people to apply and, above all, to undertake vocational training, and together with the Danish People's Party, we have abolished the priority contribution to vocational training and equipped them to better meet our expectations. And we have reached a very broad agreement only last Thursday, making university education more flexible. With the Finance Act, which came into being with the government and Dansk Folkeparti as the main architects, we are now investing more in better health and better psychiatry, strengthening the care of the elderly and providing support for children in vulnerable families. At the same time, we have agreed to allocate some 500 million. kr. In addition to the tax cuts of more than 20 billion, the tax burden on businesses is reduced annually to lower taxes and better conditions for businesses. kr., we have decided since 2015. This shows that we are raising welfare and lowering taxes. We now no longer have OECD record in tax pressure. That's good. It shows you can do both, and I think it is necessary to do both. I would also like to mention that, in the financial negotiations, pensioners in the Danish People's Party will receive a boost in their pensions as early as next year, and that from 2020 we will ensure that the retirement pension follows the wage trend, and that, in the wake of this, we will also be opening up an issue that I have been trying to address over several years, namely the need for us to create some pension savings for the rest group, that is to say, those who, throughout working life, are moving on the edge of the labour market. Finally, we have, of course, on top of strong results in the field of foreigners, where we have the lowest asylum rate we have seen in Denmark since 2009, now implemented a new policy to ensure that there is even more focus on temporary and repatriation, so that the granting of asylum in Denmark is not per year. Automatically, you become an immigrant. In future, residence permits for refugees and family members must be issued for temporary stay only. When that is possible, you have to return home and help rebuild your country. So we've actually made a lot of progress. Time does not allow to make the list any longer, and that is why I just want to say: so far, so good. We've made a lot of progress. Thank you to all those who have supported, and it is really gross, all of us in this Chamber, who have contributed to the results we have achieved together in the autumn session to a greater or lesser extent. And we need to achieve even more, and we need to achieve that in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211130637	Thank you. And now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211130655	Thank you very much. Last week, Inuit was Ataqatigiit with Parliament in Odense. There we met a number of Greenlandic citizens, and one of those I met was Vittus, who is a Greenlandic retired man from East Greenland. Vittus has moved to Denmark to enjoy his pension and, as he said, he lives a very good life here in Denmark; he has a house, he has a car, and he has a dog. By the way, he also said with a glimpse in his eye that he was voting on the Left. So it was one of your constituents. Vittus can look back at a long working life in Greenland, where he had increased in degrees at his workplace. In Greenland we really want more of that kind of thing. We'd like more like Vittus. We want more talented people, with both heads and hands screwed right on. The National Bank came here not long ago with an analysis of Greenland's economy, where the conclusion was that growth in Greenland is great, but that we lack a lot of hands on the labour market • the labour market cannot keep up. Among other things, we are missing. craftsmen, workers and women, chefs and servants in many different places in Greenland. And the assessment is that, for example, you... Ilulissat is missing about 200 craftsmen, even before the expansion of airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat. We see the same in the raw materials industry, and we see it in the fishing industry too. Greenland screams for labour, and one of the bottlenecks that we are experiencing is the case law in relation to foreign labour in the Foreigners' Agency. Here is the average processing time of about 3 months, but it can often take up to 6 months, and it can keep people from applying to Greenland and getting jobs. Greenland's business community is shouting in arms, and Greenland's business community is calling for political action, and if we don't raise this problem to a political level and solve these challenges, it can help to slow down the growth of Greenlandic society. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is the Prime Minister open to ensuring that we have a faster processing time in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211130908	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211130911	Thank you for that, also thank you for the description of Vittus' good life in Denmark. I am delighted that there is a Leftman walking around in Odense who is well. That's nice. Then I would like to say about what is being said about how the economy is doing in Greenland and about what can dampen growth, that it almost sounds like a speech I could have made myself in relation to Denmark, where we also have the challenge that some of what can slow down the enormously positive development we are experiencing is if we get into a shortage of good labour. After all, the government in Denmark has tried to take some initiatives to make it easier to get to Denmark as a skilled, sought-after labour force. We haven't gotten a hundred percent through that. If the situation in Greenlandic politics is the different situation and congratulations on the fact that one can broadly see that one needs to be able to get the skilled workforce in a flexible way, I would like to welcome it, and then we must look together at where there may be some administrative barriers. I would just like to sign for that and then propose, at the very practical level, that a meeting be held with the minister who is sitting with it, that is, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That's the one lead you can take. The second track that can be taken is the trail that the Faroe Islands have an ambition to make, namely to use the framework legislation that we have in the area of home government and self-government to gain greater own responsibility for the administration of this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131044	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131047	Thank you very much for your answer. In Greenland we are forced to think creatively and also have to think creatively. We are actually quite good at this, and when we lack labour in fishing factories around Greenland, for example. in Maniitsoq, we look among others. to the settlements nearby, e.g. Kangaamiut, to see if there could be labour there. But we have also seen lately that we have to look all the way to China in terms of securing foreign labour because we do not have qualified labour at home. That is certainly a challenge. When we in Greenland are willing to open up foreign labour on the Greenland labour market, we also have to look at how we can strengthen the level of education, because we also have to look at it in a slightly longer-term perspective. Because if we open up foreign labour, we also need to have a discussion in Greenland about when we might have to close in when we have qualified labour enough ourselves. So that is one of the considerations that should also be considered. One of the things you see in the Faroe Islands, for example, is a fixed track scheme, and I think it might be very interesting to look at this in relation to Greenland too. Is this something that the Prime Minister will be willing to look at, namely that we can look at some alternative solutions in terms of opening up a faster procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131200	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131201	Thank you. I also fully agree that, alongside this issue of foreign labour, there is, of course, a need to upgrade, that is to say to get more Greenlanders to take an education, to start an education and, above all, to implement it, where there are obvious problems. I also hope, in fact, that the initiative that I just started by talking about myself, namely a greater mutual knowledge, not least among young people, of all parts of the Kingdom community, can also be a contribution, by the fact that there are young Danes who could feel a desire to work in Greenland for a shorter or longer period of time with all that it could give, not only by mutual understanding, but also contributions to the Greenland economy. In view of the flexibility of some procedures to ensure that Greenland can have access to the right labour force, I would just like to state that I am open and constructive. I do not know the details of this, so it must be something that needs to be conducted in a direct dialogue with my responsible minister, and I would like to make a commitment on her behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131308	Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131310	Thank you. In Greenland we have a structural problem, because where we have work, we do not have housing, and where we have housing, we do not have work. And this is a huge problem that we are trying to solve in Nuuk, where there is an urban development project called Seniorsiorfik. Here there are major plans to build more than 3,000 homes and build even more day care institutions and schools to meet the needs. The goal in Nuuk is that there should be 30,000 citizens in Nuuk by 2030, and if we look at what it is like today, there will be about a third of Greenland's population living in Nuuk. That in itself is quite thought-provoking. We also see that the city grows with about 800 people every eternal year. It is an urbanisation trend that is also seen in the rest of the world, but we also see that in Greenland. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we would like to see several Greenlanders living in Denmark today who moved back to Greenland again. And there is a rather large intergroup that really wants to move back and that may in fact have an even better life in Greenland. But we also see that, when the desire is there and the resources are not necessarily sufficient for the individual, it is very different how the municipalities deal with it. Therefore, I would like to hear what the government's policy is in terms of strengthening efforts towards the Greenlanders who want to return to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131430	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131432	So, my starting point is that if you as a Faroese or Greenlander come to Denmark and choose to settle here, you have the same rights and duties as everyone else in Danish society. Then you are part of Danish society. And without being too dismissive, I would say that it must therefore be in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, respectively, that you have to organise a policy if you have an ambition to get people to move back again, just as we can see that Danish municipalities have no comparison, by the way, because it is something else, but still organises a strategy in different ways to attract citizens. And many of them have done so successfully. One of the things we can see in these years, and which pleases me very much, is that the population decline that has occurred in many of the small Danish islands has turned, and that is among other things. a result of the fact that there have been some local authorities involved in this. So as far as this question is concerned, I have to say that I believe the arrow is pointing to Nuuk, and in a different context, if appropriate, towards Tórshavn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131539	Thank you to the questioner, thank you to the Prime Minister. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131552	Thank you. Defence Intelligence came last week with its annual report on the threat level against the Danish Kingdom. Both in connection with the debate in the Chamber on Denmark's foreign and security policy and with the report by the Defence Intelligence Service, it is remarkable how little one in Denmark deals with what it means for the Kingdom to have one of the most important military bases in the United States located in Greenland. With close reading of the report, it is clear that what is happening at Thulebasen is directly contributing to strengthening Russian military armament in the Arctic. I can therefore quote the report which says: 'Russia is particularly concerned about precision attacks without warning over the North Pole against Russia's strategic nuclear weapons. In Russia's view, such attacks, together with US missile defences, including sensors on, among others, Thulebasen and warships in the North Atlantic, the potential to seriously threaten the country's capacity for strategic retaliation. ▪ In view of the fact that Thulebasen is again becoming a focal point of the Great Powers' armor in the Arctic, what thoughts does the Prime Minister have?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131708	I regard American presence and Thulebasen as an essential contribution to creating security and security in our part of the world. That's my starting point. My starting point is not the reverse: to take some Russian starting point, that is to say, I take a Danish and a European starting point, and there is reason to be concerned about some things. Only a few days ago, the whole NATO community was behind the American signal to the Russians that if we do not correct and start to comply with the INF Treaty on medium-range missiles, the United States will have to withdraw from that treaty. After all, it is an expression of a Russia that has armed in violation of the agreement. So our response cannot be that we are now beginning to talk about removing the presence, which is perhaps quite the opposite. We must avoid a military escalation in the Arctic, and that is also why we engage in the Arctic Council in good cooperation with Greenland and try to keep it as a low-voltage area. However, we also need to take note of the fact that there are investments in Russian military, which in the long term can meet some challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131829	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131831	Last year, the special investigation by the UN Human Rights Council was sent to Greenland to look at possible threats to human rights through waste management and hazardous substances. The special investigator could report that it was not only a serious problem that Greenland had been kept unaware of what the American military activities had led to waste left in the country over time, but the investigator could also state that Denmark must map and remove all military waste in Greenland that is unwanted by the Greenlandic people. Over the years, some Danish politicians have managed to cast doubt on who is responsible for cleaning up these woes in Greenland now that the areas have become civilians and therefore fall under the responsibility of Greenland's self-government. However, the introduction of Greenlandic autonomy has not meant that we have also assumed responsibility for the military sins of the United States and Denmark's agreements in the past. Is Denmark ready to take full responsibility for cleaning up after military activities in Greenland, in other words in the light of the UN Human Rights Report on Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211131941	Thank you. I am, in fact, very pleased that the UN Special Rapporteur who, if I remember correctly, began to take an interest on the basis of a request from a minister in the Greenland Government who then resigned and the letter was withdrawn, but the interest was aroused when the Danish-Greenland initiatives on former American military presence in Greenland were noted, which are initiatives which, in this way, emphasise that we take our responsibility quite seriously. As recently as this year, we have reached an agreement between the Danish Minister for the Environment and Food, on the one hand, and the President of the National Government, on the other. In our defence agreement with broad support from a broad circle here in the Assembly, we have set aside 180 million. kr. for the purpose. In my optics, we have a sensible cooperation with the Greenlandic authorities to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132055	Thank you. Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132055-2	Again: A short time ago, the UN Human Rights Council published a report on Greenland showing that Denmark should involve the Greenlandic people much more in decisions regarding the presence of foreign military forces in Greenland. In addition, the Prime Minister pointed out in his opening speech that he would open up to discuss how the Faroe Islands and Greenland could become more involved in the kingdom's foreign policy. Despite this, it is a very limited knowledge that we have in Greenland about the presence of the Americans in our country. When we ask the government, there is nothing extraordinary going on at Thulebase, while in American media we can read about significant upgrades of radar. Could it be imagined that the UN's conclusion of rights and the Prime Minister's announcement of more foreign policy involvement could be the building block to let us in Greenland know what the Americans are doing on our land right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132158	I have to admit that, and I do not know if it is a mistake, yes, it is, because you ought to know all about the fact that I am simply not aware of the request made by the UN Human Rights Council, I have to say that. But, of course, I'm gonna grow and get into that. Overall, I can say that we have the responsibility to conduct the country's foreign and security policy, and this clearly also has dimensions in relation to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This is also why I spend quite a lot of energy reaching out to the Home Ruler of Greenland and also the Faroese Layerman in organising how we can create a proper and smooth cooperation on these things, including how we can create the space of confidentiality that needs to be there if we are to be able to deal with some of the issues that Mrs Aleqa Hammond raises here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132251	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132303	Thank you. Welcome back from Marrakesh. Several things happened last night. After all, we could go and welcome the announcement that the Latting has decided that cadastral and cadastral conditions will be taken home by April next year. Earlier this year, we also repatriated personal, family and inheritance rights. Negotiations have been held on further removals of the territory of aliens and the air transport area, but they have not yet been achieved. I know that there is a difference between the complexity of various matters, and this, of course, poses different challenges in the repatriation process. I assume that some knots have been encountered in the territories of foreigners and air transport, which prevent further progress and, as you know, the 2005 takeover law requires the full removal of an area in one process. On paper it probably sounds very sensible, but sometimes it is possible to stop an otherwise sensible process because there are knots in an isolated part of the area involved. Is the Prime Minister and the Government open to looking pragmatically at the repatriation of areas, so that parts of an area which can naturally be managed independently can be taken over, when a crunch otherwise prevents further progress in the overall complex?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132427	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132429	In general terms, I can say that I am very, very pragmatic when it comes to making the Kingdom community work and that the legislation is clear and that the processes are also clear, everything is initiated by the Faroese side, and then we clarify things and then the areas are taken home. And I just have to say that I am not aware that there are cracks of such magnitude on any specific question of repatriation that it should stand in the way of achieving a goal. Well, I cannot remember that I have received letters, telephone calls or other letters from my Faroese counterpart, i.e. the lagman, who has sought to engage me in the fact that there is some problem that needs to be resolved here. So right now I am happy to be unaware that there should be any problems at all, and if it is a mistake, I am betting that the relevant Faroese authorities will bring me out of that error so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132533	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132534	I suppose that answer means that the Prime Minister is pragmatic about it, if that is the case. But speaking of the lagman, Aksel V. Johannesen, I can say that in an interview to Altinget.dk the other day he said that the Faroe Islands need a greater room for manoeuvre on the international stage. He also said: "Our needs are that we... get out of the straitjacket, it is that we must have a common foreign policy. That is our goal. And it is not only the secession parties who want it. It is also far into the cohesion parties that we want to have a much greater responsibility for our foreign policy," says Aksel V. Johannesen... The Prime Minister also said in the opening speech that there was a need for new thinking in this area, and now my question is whether there is a dialogue going on and whether there is a political will to achieve in terms of the expectations expressed by the lagoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132629	I don't know exactly what the lagman's expectations are on the basis of that interview with Everything. When you talk about a common straitjacket, it could be a synonym for the Danish constitution, and I consider it not as a straitjacket, but as a legal framework around the Kingdom Community. You can't just blow it up. Of course, you can resign, you can withdraw, and then you will, in principle, have complete sovereignty if you are not part of the Kingdom community. And that question needs to be clarified in the Faroe Islands. As long as you are part of the Kingdom community, the Constitution applies, and within the framework of it I would very much like to be involved in discussing: How can we all find our roles properly? And that's why we already started work on two tracks on my own initiative at the Kingdom meeting at Christiansø in the summer of 2017, i.e. on the basis of my best memory.How can this arrangement, called Denmark as regards the Faroe Islands and Greenland, possibly be modernised, be made more flexible?• and a more legal track, and we are not in the end of that, but it also has my own interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132749	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132752	The last time we were faced with each other, we discussed the question of whether the system of self-government and the areas taken over are irreversible, and the Prime Minister asked for some reflection time in order to study his lesson a little more. And I am grateful for the written reply I have received later, but I missed a clear indication whether the Prime Minister agreed with the predecessor Poul Nyrup Rasmussen that the principle of irrevocability can be enshrined in Danish constitutional law. The answer did not make it clear. That is why I again asked the Prime Minister about that particular part of the question, and then I got the answer that I should ask that question to the Minister for Justice. I can do that, but I am interested in hearing the Prime Minister's position, so I ask the Prime Minister once again: does the Prime Minister agree with his predecessor, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, that the principle of irrevocable equality can be enshrined in Danish constitutional law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132855	Thank you. My position is, of course, the government's position, and the government's position is my position. Therefore, when the Minister for Justice answers the written question that has been asked, it will also express my opinion. That's the way it is. It is, of course, a discussion that can be taken into account in such a very academic way. You could also choose to go into it more politically, and if you go into it politically, then I am not a split second in doubt about anything else than if an assignment, an area has been taken back to the Faroe Islands, and if there is no desire in the Faroe Islands to move on that relationship, that relationship will not be moved. It is like the bottom line of reality. Then there is what I see as a little more academic, a number of specific questions that I have considered first of all best clarified by addressing the minister who has the relevant resort, and that is the country's Minister for Justice. I know that a question has been asked and an answer has also been given, and I would say that whatever the answer is, it will also cover my position as head of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211132958	Thank you. Then this department is finished. I don't see sir. Sjúrður Skaale be here. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133017	I really like John Mogensen, and although I must be honest to say that today it is probably mostly in such festive layers, I listen to John Mogensen, there are many of the strofs that have been so stuck through many years of singing. Let us take, for example: There is something wrong in Denmark, where John Mogensen writes and sings very accurately that just the drawing boy is okay, then you can get it as you like. I cannot help remembering these very precise words when we look at how developments are in many countries, unfortunately also in our own society. The 50 richest Danes in just 10 years have also increased their fortunes by more than tripled with a financial crisis. As a result, we are in a situation where the differences at home in an otherwise good and rich Denmark are also increasing. Inequality has been allowed to grow. And we, as Social Democrats, believe that we need to start to regulate more and to act more actively when it comes to ensuring stronger cohesion and thus less inequality. Some of the things we really want to start looking at and discussing and today also with the Prime Minister are some of the very, very large wage bonuses we have seen paid out in the Danish business community. I think that a lot of people feel like I do that they sit at home and think: can it really be true that you have to make so much money just with a simple bonus. And I wonder if there are many good, solid Danish employees who stand up every day and go to work and pay their taxes, and who can figure out that no matter how many years they have to work and how hard the work is, they hardly get close to what some people get paid in a short time. Therefore, a concrete proposal on our part to set a ceiling on bonuses so that it must be harder for companies to pay out the big bonuses. I would like to ask if we could get the Prime Minister to take that action against inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133235	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133237	Thank you. Well, I also love John Mogensen very much, even though it is not all his songs that I find political inspiration in that way. For example, he has. made the land of Denmark (for the Danish), which is such a song that turns towards Europe • I don't like it. But then there are so many other good songs. In relation to what is being asked about, I must not start somewhere else and say that I have the view and I actually think we agree that it is a value, that we have a, what should one call it, relatively equal society. I myself believe that some of the things that have done that the Danes have just not sung much on this John Mogensen song, which turns its back on the rest of the world, are that we have been quite good at ensuring that the Danes have the advantages of globalisation throughout all walks of life. That is why we have not seen the leaps in gini coefficients in order now to make it technical as has been seen in other countries, and we appear in an OECD context as a rather uniform country. I think we should be vigilant about that. I do not think that the way to make sure it goes by setting a ceiling on what private companies are allowed to pay out of wages. I do not think so. I believe that we need to recognise that we are living with an international labour market in which Danish companies, who must be able to engage in global competition, have to have the same tools as companies in other countries. So if you think there is something wrong with the distribution of income, then I think you have to resort to the tax instrument instead. Well, you have to make a proposal to set up the top tax or create a new top tax limit or something else. Because I believe that it would be a mistake for the sake of growth and prosperity in our society if we started to regulate how companies regulate their salaries. Having said that, I can sometimes think on a personal level too: how can it be that there are people who are also so incredibly worth many times more than we who are here, or in many other places in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133450	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133452	But when you don't want to do anything about it, you're gonna approve of it. I do not think it is enough when we look at an inequality that is increasing, and therefore also a cohesion force that is under intense pressure, that we as Prime Minister simply stand up and express our views. You have to act on it, too. In fact, I do not think it is fair that the regime in force today makes it possible for a company to choose to pay a very high salary and very high bonuses, that is, at a level which, by far, the vast majority of Danes will never come to, and then withdraw it from corporate tax. It would then be reasonable for us, as a society, to say that every company that wants to pay its top executives such insanely large amounts of money must do so on its own account, and that is why we set a ceiling on how much can be paid in very high wages before you can deduct it from corporate tax. Because if you only observe developments, it will increase, inequality will increase in Denmark, the differences will increase. And as a Social Democrat, I just want to say very clearly: it is not the Denmark I know; it is not the Denmark I want; it is not the Denmark I believe in will ensure that as many people as possible have the best possible life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133615	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133616	I think that the right way to ensure equality and equal opportunities in our society is to pursue a policy in which we have created more and more jobs, have more and more Danes moved from passive support to the labour market, get more trained to be able to grasp the opportunities of the future. That is precisely the policy we are pursuing. This is also the policy that can sometimes be included in some statistics when you look at inequality parameters, i.e. for example. the fact that there are more young people over time on education than if you look in a distant past, and therefore go around as students with low income instead of what they might have done, namely having had an unskilled job and a slightly higher income, because then it would look like we had more equality. I think that is the key point. Respect for the desire to act, but then I think you should do it. I mean, the Social Democrat proposal is just symbolism. It's just symbolism. Because if it is the case that the price of some top manager is the high one, then it will be paid anyway, i.e. whether there is a corporate tax deduction or not. So it's just symbolism, and that's why I think you should confess color. In other words, if you really want to ensure some income equality, you have to change policy in relation to what you were doing last time you were a government. Last time you were in government, you set the top tax line. If you go further back, you also removed the property tax. We must then make proposals of this kind. Well, I'm not going to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133748	It became a clear no on the part of the Prime Minister to contribute to an increased level of equality in our society, and it became a clear no on taking political responsibility to ensure that the top should not be allowed to run from the rest of society. As a Social Democrat, of course, I very much disagree with that. I have one last question or perhaps, in fact, a desire for clarification on my part. After all, many of us are observing what is happening around the Climate Council, and the Government's wish that Peter Birch Sørensen should no longer continue his work, I think it looks like, by the way, good, solid work. After all, there has been some thought as to whether this is a dismissal by the government, and we have heard that the Government has expressed the wish that the Council, which is therefore independent, should not be allowed to criticise the government's climate policy, even if there is good reason to do so. This is not something that sounds good in our ears, and it should not sound good in the ears of the people's regime, so can I just ask the Prime Minister to explain to Parliament what is up and down in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211133856	I'd love to. But may I not say first that my words from before cannot be interpreted as saying that I am now saying 'no' to do something about inequality. It was a clear 'yes' to continuing to work for us to have a society of equal opportunities. One of the things I am proud of is that you now have to go back several decades to find so few Danes walking around on passive public support, and that is really, really good. So nobody gets poorer by the fact that others get richer. It is not good if we start to pursue a policy that means that we cannot change Danish companies generationally, so that they are simply sold into capital funds instead of or flag out of the country. One of the things that has made Denmark strong is that we have a company structure with family-owned companies. In relation to the second question, I would like to say that there is not much more to say about that matter than that, in relation to all the boards and commissions and other things we have, there is a cadence, and one is appointed for a given period, and when that period expires, the government takes on board and that happens in the government's appointment committee, and Mrs Frederiksen also knows about whether to re-appointed, or whether to appoint a new one, and that is also what has happened in this case, and there is no hokuspocus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134008	Thank you. Then the next sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134015	Thank you for that, President. I was so happy when I heard Mrs. Mette Frederiksen start her question with a quote from John Mogensen: "As long as the drawing boy is okay, you can get it as you like. ▪ I also thought Mrs Mette Frederiksen would have mentioned that it is apparent from the same song that Dybbøl Mølle is painting all the way... to, and have rejoiced that with the Finance Act we have restored the mill so that in future it can paint and not by... to, but can stand handsome and appear and remind us of the story we are a part of. So in this way, I agree with the Prime Minister that there are a lot of good things in the Finance Act and the agreement we have made about the Financial Act for 2019. However, what I am going to use my Question Time for here today concerns Brexit and the negotiations that have been going on and what has happened recently, with the announcement by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom that the vote in the British Parliament has been postponed in order to assess whether there is any possibility of renegotiation in relation to the European Union. I think theresa May, the Prime Minister of Britain, is fighting a fantastic battle. I think it is in Danish interest that there is an agreement-based end to this and that it is not a hard brexit that can otherwise be predicted. Denmark is one of the countries that is going to lose the most on a hard brexit in proportion, and I think that the British Prime Minister has fought for a so-called soft brexit, a contract-based brexit. She then postpones her vote to have a talk with the European Union, that is to say her party to the agreement, about these things, and then what is she told from the European Union, from Brussels, in the most arrogant way? That there is no possibility of renegotiation. The President of the ECB Tusk, the EU President, has been out saying the same thing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees that this is a wise attitude, a wise line towards the British Prime Minister, who is fighting a fight for us otherwise to get a divorce through on a contractual basis rather than through a so-called hard brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134227	Thank you. And thank you for the finance agreement and also for Dybbøl Mølle, which makes Erhard Jakobsen's response to this song Dybbøl Mølle still paints! So that's good. With regard to Brexit, I am genuinely concerned because we have reached an agreement, and this is an agreement we reached in agreement, just as when we concluded the agreement on a platform for the former Prime Minister, who said: this agreement is so strong that I can win a referendum on it. He couldn't. Similarly, this time we have reached an agreement that has been mutually agreed on, and the British Prime Minister has now cancelled a vote on the issue without, of course, in any way being clear, at least not to me, at the moment, what it would be that would have to be adjusted in order for the world to look different. And that is really what causes the greatest concern, I think. We may well get involved in this, but if one withdraws a parallel to the history of Denmark, one has to say that when the Danes voted against the Maastricht Treaty, there was, after all, a Danish Parliament which acted on itself and created a national consensus on what it was that had to be adjusted in order for us to be able to carry it through. And, from the outside, there has been an absence of such initiatives in British politics. I am certainly not in a position to point that out. If sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl can do that, I think it will be inspiring for me and for the rest of Europe to point out the things that should be different in order for the world to look different. That's why I'm a little hesitant about this. After all, theresa May has started a journey around Europe today, and there is a summit on the way which will take place on Thursday and Friday. I think my own level of knowledge is going to rise towards that. Although the starting point is, of course, that the agreement is as the agreement is, there is something about the agreement because there is the divorce agreement, there is the transition period, and then there are the leads that point forward. And is this where some solutions have to be found, with some interpretations or something else? I simply do not know, and it has to be the case that the British Prime Minister makes clear what needs to be adjusted in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134455	I am not going to interfere with what the British might want from changes either. It can be seen that what is clearly of concern to a great many British people is this so-called backstop, and that is whether one can get entangled in the customs union forever and cannot decide independently to get out. But that is just what I see from the debate that is unfolding. But the reason why I raise it during this Question Time is something else; that is the principle of it. In other words, you have a British Prime Minister who is fighting a battle to get a soft brexit, a contract-based brexit, so really is fighting both on the European stage and on the home front and who then says: I am postponing a vote, because I need a little time to consult those with whom I have made this deal and find out things. Is it not wrong, then, to say that any renegotiation is impossible? That is what the spokesmen of the European Union, namely both Juncker and Tusk, have been out to say. As recently as this morning, a tweet came from Jean-Claude Juncker: There is no room for rengotiation. How can he say that? What if she comes up with good ideas? They're even gonna meet this eving in Brussels, says they're gonna meet tonight. Should Juncker not, as an official in the system, say: let us now hear what Theresa May brings, what we have to discuss, and then we take it from there? Wouldn't that be a wiser position? That is really what I am asking the Prime Minister: does he share Juncker's total rejection that any renegotiation is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134621	I share the clear point of departure that we have drawn up an agreement which has been calibrated on a nuclear weight in relation to perfectly logical interests and conflicts of interest, rights and obligations that need to be followed up and that it is difficult to imagine that one could simply reopen it. Then I'll take note of that too, sir. Juncker. If I did hear him correctly earlier this morning, it may also have been yesterday, but I think it was this morning that the European Parliament followed up the sentence referred to here by pointing out precisely the room in the political declaration, in the open mind to see whether there is something to be made out or not. So I don't read it completely as dismissive as it's being interpreted here. I have to say that the starting point is that they in Britain are making their positions clear, and that does not create any clarity if Europe just stands up and says: we can renegotiate anything. For the agreement that has been reached is based on balance sheets, and it must be Britain's obligation now to identify where, if necessary, something needs to be adjusted, something to be corrected, something to be given an interpretation for. Something seems to me to be luminously unclear. It is not because I have no sympathy for the British Prime Minister, because it is certainly not an easy position to have been out recommending the people the opposite of what happened and then suddenly get this task, because a predecessor may have been a little overconfident about what he could do with a British population, and then fight a huge respect for it. That is why I think the best contribution I can make is to say that I look forward very much to this summit on Thursday and Friday, and I look forward very much to a British Prime Minister who, with greater and greater precision, hopefully, articulates what we can do to help her on the way. For my basic point of view is the same as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahls, I think, is an accident if this ends in an unsuited way with a hard brexite.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211134826	I believe that in the second context the Prime Minister has used the picture that you sail the ship from there in the lake where it lies. And if the starting point is that the British House of Commons would have voted clearly against the agreement reached primarily at official level, but indeed also with the approval of the British Government, and the British Prime Minister then says that before such a split vote is carried out, there is a total hard brexit and everything we do not like is needed to talk, how can one say, as an official in the system in advance, that such talk cannot be a renegotiation, that is, until one has even talked to the person himself? That's not showing her respect. Surely it is not to show respect to your partner to make it absolutely crystal clear before meeting on the same day that any renegotiation is impossible, that is to say, that there will be no renegotiation. That is what has led the media today to describe that, if so, what can be done is to sprinkle a little sugar over the agreement, which might make it slide down more easily in Britain. And how does it work in Britain? It seems the opposite. If there are officials in Brussels who have to sit in this way and dictate to the people of Britain that they can just get a little sugar down on an agreement, and then it will probably slide down slightly slightly, then there will be even more resistance. So I just want to ask the PM for something. It may well be that he will not say this here, because there are considerations to take into account the European, Juncker, Tusk and all that, Merkel etc. That is not the way the Prime Minister himself wanted to leave the country, for example. Last year, when he had a finance bill thing he was supposed to try to get in place. In order to make things slip, this may not be the way to act, in other words, as the people of the European Union have done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135006	This can be said differently, and every captain sails the ship with the skills and with the hand on the steering wheel that you are now equipped with. At any rate, I do not think it is wise or anything that would promote anything in this way, if we now start to conduct these negotiations in 27 EU capitals, each with its own proposals of emphasis, tonality and that sort of thing. I believe that what is needed is to make it clear what is needed. I am not going to intervene in British politics, but I am just uncertain whether the answer lies in flying around European capitals or whether the answer really is not in the British capital. It is certainly difficult to see from the outside where the British national compromise is. In other words, where is the clear joint stock in Britain of an ambition to possibly get something fixed in the divorce agreement, in the transit agreement, in the political agreement pointing forward which could trigger this fall into place? When it is not clear, it is already difficult for that reason. And then you can discuss Juncker's tonality, but you could also discuss the British need to come together. I don't think I'm promoting this very complex case by trying to overjudge it. I'm not contesting any of those positions. I am Prime Minister of this country and from here I want to defend Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135147	Thank you. The question is over. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135156	Just before, the Prime Minister said that it has been a long time since there were so few people on public support. It has also been a long time since there have been so many children in poverty in Denmark. About a week ago there was a new report which shows that last year 12 000 more children were living in poverty, so now we are up to just under 65,000 children here in Denmark living a life of poverty. At the same time, the number of families who have had to apply for Christmas help has again been recorded, so help to get such a Christmas with a pork roast and perhaps a couple of gifts and some risalamande that everyone else enjoys so much. On top of the figures and with that in mind, the Prime Minister and Dansk Folkeparti have made a financial agreement which, with new significantly lower benefits, targets the families of children. This made me think of an educator who I once heard about the consequences of child poverty. She tells such a simple story about a boy in a kindergarten who is getting ready to go out to the playground with all the other kids, and then he starts crying because he can't get his shoes on. It turns out that the boy thinks that he shoes have become too small, and the prospect of what his mother has to do, because she doesn't have the money to buy new shoes, causes the little child to collapse. It is the consequences of child poverty in Denmark with a very simple but a very telling example. Children in poverty care about money and they take adult responsibility, which means that there is no room for play, but also that there is not as much time for calculations and grammar, and then you do worse. Children in poverty are kept out of the community. They cannot participate in nisselege and there is no money for Christmas calendars that many other children enjoy in December. So the question is quite simple: was it the aim of the Finance Act that there should be more children in poverty next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135411	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135412	The aim of the Finance Act is to ensure that Denmark becomes stronger and richer and more reasonable, that more people have something to stand up for, that more people can support themselves. So now we have the lowest number of people in the public sector in any year since 1987 and we have unemployment as low as it has not been, apart from the two years, just before we hit the financial crisis wall over the last 40 years. And that's really, really good. Therefore, when you look a little more down in these statistics, you will see that the children that the AE Council now assesses should be listed are not the same children year after year. There is considerable mobility. And it's really good because the best thing is, as I say, that children can look up to parents who go to work and earn their own money. Then there might be some roads there. There may be a self-supporting and repatriation service, which is at a lower level, creating a strong incentive for getting to work, in combination with the fact that we have created an integration basic education. There are twice as many who are now self-supporting after 3 years as asylum seekers and family couples in Denmark, as when I got the PM post. This is very good, because this is the way out of lasting poverty. That is the way into lasting prosperity. That's how I look at it. Then I fully acknowledge that there may be some challenges. This is among other things. One of the reasons why, as I know, we have put a pool of 4 million in this budget bill, if I remember correctly. kr. for the use of the Christmas season, which Mrs Pernille Skipper is so preoccupied with these target groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135612	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135613	There is no doubt that it is good for children if their parents are at work and can pay for medicines and insurance and have money for them to participate in children's birthdays. After all, no one in the discussion on child poverty has ever questioned whether this is a good idea. The problem is, of course, whether sending parents into poverty with significantly lower benefits will actually have the positive effect on their children, and there is certainly no indication of this. I believe that it is the Finance Minister's own figures that say that perhaps a few hundred have come to work on the cash benefits ceiling. The question is not whether it is good if parents are at work. That is not the question. The question is, what are the consequences for the children? And just one year of poverty has lasting consequences for children. That's what research shows. Recently, in an interview, CEPOS's director said that it also serves the children well. That is the question: does it also serve the children well and teach them some of these significantly lower benefits? I really would like the Prime Minister to take that into account. Is it good for children to live short or long periods of poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135739	Yes, but that is not the case, although it is of course very attractive and very simple that Mrs Pernille Skipper can define one question, and then you have to answer it and that there is only one question in the whole world. Things have to be seen in a context. Is it good for children to grow up with parents who are continuously on cash benefits and outside the Danish labour market? No! Cash benefits are, I almost said a hereditary disease. It's inherited. That is why it is good to bring people out of cash and into the labour market. That is why it is good that we have to go back to 1987 to see as low a number of Danes on passive support as we now have. Therefore, it is good that tens of thousands of Danes have moved out of cash assistance. Therefore, it is good that we have doubled the number of people who have come to Denmark, who after 3 years are self-supporting. It hasn't just happened by itself. That's one of them. This is because we have created the 225-hour rule, by creating the ceiling for cash benefits, by creating the integration benefit, which is now renamed, but which, in reality, is the same. It is, of course, a means of achieving that objective, and that is why we cannot just say: we do not like the means, but we embrace the objective. Just as I have to be vigilant about what the effects are of the policy I am pursuing, Mrs Pernille Skipper also has to stand guard around hers. If we rolled all this back, it's a little uncertain whether the opposition agrees, because the Social Democratic Party hasn't defined any clear policy in this area, then the results should also be rolled back. Then I admit that there is a difference between children living with parents on low income for a short period of time and for a longer period of time, and that is why we are also taking a number of other measures, such as: This Christmas helper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211135925	I simply have to say to the Prime Minister that this is not true. I can agree with the objective of parents getting to work, but disagree with the means of doing so. You can do that. It is Enhedslisten, and it is probably all children's organisations in Denmark, social workers, who work with children and the consequences of child poverty in both the short and long term, say that this instrument has harmful consequences for children, and it is now the remedy that the Prime Minister and the Danish People's Party will use more of and send children out into poverty. It has enormous consequences, even far into their adult lives, and for all of us. So, if only it were as simple as the Prime Minister says. It is also a consequence of the policy being pursued. And the Prime Minister has to deal with what the Prime Minister will do with the thousands of more children who will live in poverty. Their parents don't get to work. They are children who live in poverty. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140037	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140038	Well, it's fine to agree with our goal and write off our tools, but then you just have to come up with some others yourself. And I stand at the goal of our policy, which is a policy carried by love for those children who otherwise risk growing up with parents who are constantly on the edge of our labour market. That's not gonna work. That is why we have promoted the encouragement to take up work. Therefore, we have created integration programmes that have ensured that twice as many with other ethnic backgrounds that have recently come to Denmark are now self-supporting. That is why we can also welcome the fact that what is then defined as poverty groups is not such static groups that are in lifelong poverty. It's not. And I stand by it because the results we achieve are permanent and positive. Does it create challenges in some places? Yes, it does. So we're gonna take them down? Yes, we do. This is among other things. The reason why we have allocated some extra resources here during this Christmas time, which I think we all know is a time that can push the private economy a little more. That is the way we can go into it without compromising the whole of it, because the whole of it is moving Denmark in a better direction. It's great that there are thousands of more children who experience their parents jumping out of bed in the morning to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140211	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next one is sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140221	Then I would like to start by saying that it was great that the Prime Minister went to Marrakesh. The Prime Minister is to be commended for this. But I also sensed some irritation when the Prime Minister replied to Mrs Mette Frederiksen's last question about the climate area. Now I hope that the Prime Minister will not be in even more awkward mood when I am going to ask some questions about the climate area. There has been a great deal of attention about Peter Birch Sørensen's departure as chairman of the Climate Area, and some of what you can get really unsure of when reading various interviews is how independent a Council of Climate Council really is. I feel like reading a quote from the article in Politiken, where Peter Birch Sørensen says the following: "There was a discussion between the Minister and me. The minister believed that when we were an adviser to the government, we had to advise on the objectives set by the government, and therefore it was not relevant to criticise the government for not meeting the 40 percent target. We had a controversy about that. Now, as I said, we only know Peter Birch Sørensen's interpretation of the meeting, but what has to turn on all sorts of warning lights in every way is how independent is the Climate Council? The Climate Act states that the Climate Area is independent and chooses its own tasks, but when you read the interview in Politiken, you get a feeling that there has been constant pressure or at least significant pressure on the Council's work, where the government wanted the Council to focus on something other than what the Council itself thought should be focused on. So my question, as I have said, is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the government should not interfere in the work of the Climate Council and, if so, how will the government ensure that this is actually the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140421	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140426	Only the opposition should interfere in the work of the Climate Council, or what is it like? And what do the words here mean? We have a climate council set up by law, and it is an independent council that has full freedom to draw up the recommendations that you wish to make. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's supposed to be. It should not write off anyone, either in the public debate or in the government or anyone else, from being in some kind of dialogue with the Climate Council, but it is not an order shop. It's an independent council. Moreover, it is also regulated that the board and the chairman are appointed for a period of time, and then it has to be decided again. There's nothing weird about that, there isn't. What's the weirdness? And is it the case that every time we set up councils and commissions or, by the way, do years of employment in the public sector and people do not get their own position again or you choose a new one, we have to have a big discussion about one thing and the other? I have to say, I don't understand. In fact, I cannot understand why the economist in question, whom I have great respect for, and which I hope the government will also have the opportunity to use in relation to other tasks to be solved, is trying to make half a martyrdom out of this. I don't actually understand. There is a period that the government decides on who to appoint. We choose in the government of Peter Mølgaard. He has a market economy approach and it matches the profile we would like to have at that post at a time when it is our job to decide who should have it. It is quite like some others historically elected the former President, and exactly the same way as in a few years when Peter Mølgaard's mandate runs out, there will be a government, mine or someone else who will decide who will now contest that post. There's no hocus pocus in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140623	Here you go, Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140624	Maybe the Prime Minister doesn't think there's any hokuspocus here. But at least I am worried and there are legitimate doubts as to what working conditions the Council has had. When you hear that the Council has felt that there has been pressure on the government, on the part of the Minister, on what to focus on and what tasks to undertake, I would expect the Prime Minister to say: of course we must guarantee that the Council is completely independent, regardless of who is in government and who is in opposition. So I cannot understand why the Prime Minister is simply dismissing the question that has arisen, because it also adheres to the Council's forward-looking work. Well, it's about how independent it is. And that, of course, is also justified by the fact that we have seen climate rapporteur Mr. Thomas Danielsen went out and said at the forefront that the Left did not trust the Climate Council and thus its chairman. That is why it is clear that you will be worried when, two days after the submission of a report, you see that the President will be fired or at least not get the job back. So how will the Prime Minister ensure that this doubt does not stick to the council's forward-looking work?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140741	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140744	Nobody's been fired. There are people who have solved tasks they have been asked for within a time frame when they have been asked for it, and then, following a completely normal procedure, the government has taken a position on how to re-use this Climate Council in the future. And that can be done by renouncing, or by designating new ones. This has been the case at all times, and I cannot find any precedent; at least I cannot recall anything where people who could have been re-appointed in principle and who have not been re-appointed have triggered some storm, where, when we were in opposition, my party has said that it is certain something. I take a stand against it and I do not understand it. The Climate Council is set up with the mandate they have and they can do whatever they want and have the degrees of freedom to do so. Does this mean that the government must not be in any dialogue with them? Of course it doesn't. So, for example, we make it. In 2015 we have a Climate Council that evaluates the government on objectives that the previous government has set, so is it relevant enough that we have some discussion about: Fine enough, but could there not also be something else that you could deal with? Well, that's quite fair. I guess it's not the Climate Council of the opposition. It's probably an independent Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140859	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211140901	Well, hopefully, we are in complete agreement that it is independent. I mean, the art break makes me worried, because what is at stake is that you experienced pressure on the part of the government in relation to what tasks you would have to undertake. I have complete respect for the fact that the government can mean everything when the report comes in and go in and influence and say that you have to focus on something else. It is Denmark's Climate Council, and that means that it is an independent Climate Council with the expertise that then lies in it. So I don't understand why the Prime Minister is just sweeping it off as if these questions were completely irrelevant. As you know, the last question comes from the members of the Alternative itself. Usually I don't mention the name of the person, but I do today. It's a completely different ball street, so we can change our tone. It is from Karen Christoffersen that she has a question to the Prime Minister, and now I quote directly: Our second daughter-in-law gave birth in August to her first child at Odense University Hospital and was sent home 6 hours after the birth at. 21.00 in the evening, although the birth had been long and hard. It is violent when you think that 30 years ago you had 5-6 days in peace and quiet in the hospital before you were sent home and after you learned the essentials. So the question from Karen Christoffersen is: Will the prime minister make sure that first-time feeding gets a safe and quiet start with 2-3 days in the hospital before they are sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141034	Thank you. A good question, which in this case should, of course, be put to the Regional Council over in Vejle, just as a similar question, if it arose here in Copenhagen, should have been put to the Social Democratic Regional Council chairman up in Hillerød, who has made savings, I have to understand, in the Rigshospitalet. For it is in the regions, at least for the time being, that the hospital service is run. We are then sitting here looking at whether it needs to be adjusted and to the extent that we choose to adjust to it, so that we have a greater responsibility at national level for the level of service that is given out there, and of course we will have to face up to it. I think myself but people are different that what I hear described here is not very good. Well, I think there's a lot of things that can sort of handle a first-time birth like that. I remember that in my young life I myself struggled to keep my own wife in the hospital and on maternity leave, because she actually felt this way: let me come home and let me move on. That's how I think people are different. But of course there should be an offer that means that if you feel you need to have an overnight stay and calm down, then there has to be an opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141204	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141212	Well, I would like to start with a congratulations to the Prime Minister, but indeed to all of us, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I think in many ways that it would have been appropriate to mark it from the official Denmark. I don't think there has been, so I have missed it. However, the Prime Minister did at least mark this by joining the UN Migration Pact. And I'd like to bring you a little present. I think I've seen the government ministers wear this world-target spin, so if the Prime Minister is ready, here you go. Such a little gift would dress the Prime Minister. That's not so good, sir. Morten Østergaard. I think so, sir. Morten Østergaard knows, so I'd like to get rid of that. Thank you.). When you make such a declaration and reaffirm human rights, hope is bright green in many ways. And the Prime Minister was in his presentation on the opening debate and his opening speech, which we actually praised because there was an ambitious target of 1 million electric cars. After all, it was an ambitious proposal for a solution to a problem that we really need to deal with, namely transport CO2 Then came the financial agreement, and then it has to be said that it just happens that when the Prime Minister locks himself in a room with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, the black clap goes all the way down. Any little hope of something bright green is completely suppressed, and instead 759 million are set aside. kr. to transform a research station in Stege Bay into a refugee island, or whatever to call it an exit center. 759 million kr. There, the Climate Council's proposal to grant a grant of DKK 50,000 could have been implemented. per electric car and got 15,000 electric cars with subsidies in addition to the 1,000 that the government's concrete proposal was, that is, a significantly larger step. However, the reality is that the Prime Minister's Finance Act agreement is spraying tax dollars with things that do not solve problems, while the problems that we actually agreed to find solutions to, for example. the CO2 of transport;
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141432	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141435	Thank you. I apologise to the President for grabbing this sustainability pin. After all, giving me something I already have is not really an expression of any kind of sustainability. It's just overuse. But let it be. Where to start, where to finish. Now we're spending 750 million. kr. On making an island that's not right. Without remembering all the figures from the Finance Act, I think we are spending in the vicinity of 200 million. kr. to clean up that island and turn it into a new exit center. And then we spend some money next door to educating people and running that center. It is not the case that if you didn't do it on Lindholm, you shouldn't do anything about it. It's the radical recipe, that is, that people who are criminals and who shouldn't be here who should be going out should just be able to do what they want. But it's wrong to draw a picture that we spend three quarters of a billion dollars making that island. We don't. That's one thing. The second thing is that the second picture that is drawn is completely wrong. We have presented a very ambitious plan in which we have set the goal of not re-registering diesel and petrol cars from 2030 onwards, with the derived effect, if we look at how the car park is replaced, that there will be around 1 million electric cars by 2030. And then we have been completely open about how we get there: a desire to keep electric car sales going on the short lane; that is why we have put forward a proposal that is twice as ambitious as that, Mr President. Morten Østergaard's own party has presented with the other opposition, where we will be exempt in 2019 and 2020, in contrast to the opposition's proposal to do so only in 2019. So we are tax-free for two years, and then we are setting up a Transport Commission to get some elaborate, wise proposals on how to get here from where we are now, to where we want to go, because it is not just simple. I guess in the vicinity of 5%. of the state's revenue today comes from petrol and diesel cars. So there is some revenue of about 50 billion. kr. that will disappear if we don't do this wisely. But we intend to do it wisely. Therefore: no tax on electric cars from 1 January on sensible, cheap medium-class cars and then a long-term worked-out plan for how to get further forward. That's the good way to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141711	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141713	Perhaps some had imagined that the Prime Minister had thought about it before announcing the target in the opening speech. In any case, it is bound up with the platty of suggesting that there was no favourable majority in the Folketing who would like to pursue the goal of 1 million electric cars. We know that it is because you cannot get the Danish People's Party to spend money on it because the money is spent on something else. Regardless of all the Prime Minister's many words, the Prime Minister cannot use the money twice, which is why fiscal policy is a priority. And when the Finance Act allocates 759 million. kr. earmarked for the project at Lindholm instead of using the facilities around you, for example. let the children come out of the Soulsmark Kaser, so that you could use the facilities or whatever you wanted, then you could have spent the 759 million. kr. to give a grant of DKK 50,000. per electric car as proposed by the Climate Council corresponding to 15,000 electric cars or the subsidy to them. You could have cancelled all the education savings now introduced in 2019, about half a billion. Those things could have been done, but the Prime Minister has chosen to give priority to something else, and that is expensive, expensive symbolic policy on behalf of all taxpayers without solving a real problem. That is what is so clear: when the Prime Minister's government joins the Danish People's Party, what is the result, nothing points forward, just symbolic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141841	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211141843	I do not know what the result is when Mr. Morten Østergaard sits with them, as Mr. Morten Østergaard thinks should drive Denmark. Is it then there that we do not think we should do anything about the criminals who expelled asylum seekers? Represents Mr. Morten Østergaard a united opposition that says it is a mistake, a giant For then it is right. It is true that if Mrs Mette Frederiksen covers that point of view, we would have had some money that we have spent on something else, but I do not know whether that is the case. I just want to say that it cannot be a long-term strategy to make Denmark green, that we need to spend tax money on subsidising the Danes to use electric cars, while at the same time we are punching a hole in the treasury because people stop using petrol and diesel cars. This will leave the Danish welfare society with a loss of the order of magnitude plus 50 billion. kr., and Mr. Morten Østergaard can also very quickly figure out what this corresponds to in education and research resources and everything and how long you can spend on maternity leave. This is not a proper strategy. That is why we are now, in a positive way, distributing electric cars with a tax exemption in 2019 and 2020, and so wisely getting some people to work out how to get there without punching the hole in the treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142011	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142013	The Prime Minister can jump and jump, but what didn't make an electric car deal was that the government wouldn't spend the resources on it, because they had to be spent on an island in Stege Bay. That, I think, is a crazy priority. It is crazy to ask all educational institutions, except vocational training, to save a little because it has been decided that money should now be spent on rebuilding a research station. I haven't heard a single one, either a prison officer or a police officer, who thought it was the easiest place to deal with deported criminals. On the other hand, I have heard the Prime Minister say that the only solution to the problem is the type of international agreements that were sought yesterday in Marrakech, moreover, under great protest from the Danish People's Party, which would rather spend taxpayers' money on an island in the South Zealand rather than making real solutions. But I would just like to end by asking something: Now that in 2018 in the Red Cross there have been 51 reports of misfortune on the Soulsmark Kaser, how long can the government ignore it? I think that at the moment 93 children are locked up in this barracks under conditions where they cannot even be allowed to eat a meal their parents have made for them, and how long can it go on when you see that the reports are queuing in the way that is the case here? I understood from the Minister for Culture yesterday that there are discussions in the government, so what can the Prime Minister say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142139	Thank you. If it really were to be the case that what was a barrier to the opposition taking an active share of responsibility to ensure that the charges on electric cars do not increase per year. On 1 January, what would be fair enough, all the time that the previous government made some tax exemptions, but just forgot to finance them, so it would be fair enough if you took up the responsibility that we have instead spent the money making Lindholm, then I look forward very much to an amendment from a single opposition. That is what must be done, because that is what I have to understand. So there comes an amendment from the overall opposition, where this whole project of creating a new asylum centre goes out in favour of giving some subsidies to some electric cars. We are not going to vote for it, but I am looking forward to seeing it, otherwise what has just been said will not make any sense. Then I would say about Soulsmark that you could also turn the question around and ask how long the parents will accept this. There's parental responsibility. There are some people who come to Denmark and there are some who have a need for protection, and we must take care of them lovingly and warmly, and I am totally in favour of that, in other words, of complying with all the conventions. Some people do not have a basis and they have to go home, and so it is part of parental responsibility to do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142308	Here you go. No, there's no more action. Here you go to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142318	Thank you. While we are standing in the Chamber, there is a climate summit in Katowice, Poland, and in reality, decisions really have to be taken in relation to the future of all of us. We are currently seeing the United States, Russia and several oil states stand out in the most unpleasant way: standing on their hind legs and trying to thwart a debate on an enlightened basis. It is important for all good forces to agree with the mixture of climate denial and opportunism. But it is not enough to do it in words. Action is needed, both in Katowice, but also in Denmark. In transport we have seen the Prime Minister have great words and very little action, indeed, in the ratio of 1,000:1. In the agricultural sector, things look somewhat different, because there are not even green words of importance here. It is very little that the government proposes to do in the agricultural sector when it comes to climate, even though agriculture accounts for 30%. of the Danish climate emissions. Is it because it's too expensive? No, not according to the Climate Council and other experts who emphasise that some of the socially cheapest measures are to limit Denmark's climate pollution in agriculture. So my question is quite simple: why does the Prime Minister and the government not listen to the experts and get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142449	Well, we listen to the experts. I just don't think there are many experts in everything, and that is why you have politicians who can listen to many different experts and weigh it together and make decisions. For life consists of finding some balances. It does, too, when we talk about this here, where I am proud to belong to a green leader nation, which also engages in the world at COP24. The Minister for Climate and Energy is present. We just appointed a special envoy, former director of Vestas, to promote all this global work, because that's where it's gonna happen. That's where you set the framework. That is also where we can ensure that we are green in our ambition in a way that does not lead to inappropriate differences in competition between countries. We're doing our best there. As far as transport and agriculture are concerned, we must do so wisely. That's why we're here. We are turning up more research so that we can develop the technologies that make one of the farms around the world that have the lowest carbon footprint, that is to say can continue to be here, also as a source of inspiration for agriculture in the world and to make a contribution to the global climate struggle, so that we do not just move Danish agricultural production elsewhere where the effect on the climate is inferior. The same is true of transport. We have an ambitious goal, and that is not just talk. It cannot be much more ambitious than saying that we want to set the goal of a commitment, that by 2030 we will no longer have petrol and diesel cars newly registered in Denmark, and then take responsibility for, rather than just standing and talking about it, setting up a job that will show how to get there in the real world because if we were to just get there by tax-free electric cars and do nothing else, we would be missing 50 billion. kr. kr. to hospitals, to nursing homes, to public schools, and I don't want to be a part of that. So I can't just listen to one expert. There are also some other experts who say that we need more in hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142652	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142655	Thank you. It is of course interesting that the Prime Minister says he would like to listen to the experts, but that there may also be other experts. Yes, but here all the experts actually agree, from agricultural experts to Climate Council experts to independent experts, namely that Denmark's agriculture accounts for 30%. of our climate emissions. 30% And if you go in and make an effort on agriculture, you can succeed with it quite cheaply, much cheaper than the Prime Minister suggests, for example. The electric car area. This is one of the places where we can deliver fast gains. Let me just give you one example and try to be a little bit concrete when the Prime Minister does not want to be: why does the government not propose in its own climate initiative to implement the cheap measures such as the one we are talking about? to take some of the carbon-containing agricultural land out of operation, which is a very cheap approach socio-economically? Because we need to be concrete here if it is not just for Denmark to keep the words, and precisely in this area the Prime Minister does not even deliver the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142754	Yes, we deliver both words and actions when you look at what a profile Denmark has and how we live up to our obligations after Paris, which is to be lived out together with other EU countries. The whole idea of making targeted regulation in agriculture is, in fact, an instrument to promote the thinking behind what is being said here, so that we get farmers to think more about which land can be intensively operated and which land cannot be intensively operated. It is also in this light that in this small drought package, which the government would have liked to see increased, we also have elements of land distribution. So I have no doubt that there is the perspective that is being drawn. But I just want to say that my responsibility is broader... I guess that's why we have political differences... than just observing one thing. I also think that, in addition to making agriculture green, I have a responsibility to ensure that agriculture is viable and strong on its way. For it generates tens of thousands of jobs, not only in agriculture, but throughout the food sector. It generates technology that we export. It generates inspiration for agriculture globally, which, if we are to make a difference, also needs to be included. Because it is true that agriculture accounts for 30%, and if you add Denmark's emissions in total, we stand for 0.01%. of global CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142922	Thank you. The last question, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211142924	I think, of course, that the Prime Minister is insanely unconcerned when it comes to agriculture, but actually when it comes to transport. It is as if you want to wear a green tie and you want to talk about the green tie today, the Prime Minister is not wearing a green tie, but otherwise the point is that we have to deliver concretely if we demand it from others, and there I cannot understand that the Prime Minister is not listening to his Climate Council. Because the Climate Council is the objective, true watchdog. Is it because the Prime Minister really doesn't think we should have a Climate Council? Is it such a way of saying that you really want to silence the Climate Council? Now that the outgoing or fired president Peter Birch Sørensen had to go to the media and shout guard in the rifle, we are out on a slope if the government will not generally listen to an objective Climate Council. Now the Prime Minister took the liberty of calling Peter Birch Sørensen a martyr in the media, but it is precisely the researchers' job to shout guardly when the direction is the wrong one. So will the Prime Minister forward-lookingly ensure that the Climate Council that is now coming is allowed to shout in arms, or should they, as Peter Birch Sørensen has seen, also be muzzled?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143036	Thank you, and the last answer. There must be some silence for the last reply from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143038	Well, no one's been muzzled. We have a free and independent Climate Council and, by the way, we have a free and independent public debate, and you have to say what you want. It probably creates an obligation to listen, but it is not, of course, the right thing to do. And frankly, there is nothing particularly surprising about the fact that if you had a suggestion that you gave money to everyone who bought an electric car to buy it, then more electric cars would probably be sold than if you didn't give people money to buy it. I can actually figure that out, even without the use of experts. So we're just gonna do it? Yeah, let's think about that one time. Because where do we get the money, and what else could we use it for? That is why there is no advice, whether it be one or the other or the third, where you can just say that now we are abolishing them to the experts everywhere, and whatever they say, we are doing what they say. Then we could all go home, then there's no reason we're here. Our job is precisely to weigh up different things. And yes, I want us to go green in relation to transport, and that is also going to happen. We have set an ambitious objective that inspires Europe. We now had the Volkswagen Group out here last week, and they are trying to set the target point 2026... [Sound emission]... Now we are seeing a great producer who says the same thing. I am very, very concerned about that, but I have to make it go hand in hand with the fact that we can also afford doctors and nurses and asphalt on the roads and parks in the cities and all sorts of other things. Therefore, I cannot deposit my political freedom of action with a council and say that whatever they propose, it is just my policy. I don't think any government after mine will be able to do that either, to be completely honest and serious about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143220	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143255	We'll start in approx. One minute. Then it fits with the fact that we have called for a vote. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 121 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on secondary schools and free vocational schools. Pelle Dragsted (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the regulation of a possible sale of Radius). Christian Poll (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 65 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on green budgeting). Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on long transport of animals). Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), Henrik Brodersen (DF), Bertel Haarder (V), Merete Scheelsbeck (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Magni Arge (T) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a delegation on the Arctic). Henning Hyllested (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Haste query no. F 25 (What can the Minister say about initiatives taken by the Minister as sole owner of DSB to ensure the normal settlement of Christmas traffic in the light of the standing conflict between DSB's management and the employees of DSB?). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 26 (What can the Minister say about the possibility and consequences of introducing a differentiated retirement age or other rights for early retirement from the labour market, which is based on the number of years on the labour market?). Titles on notified cases will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above). Members of the Folketing Jesper Petersen (S), Henning Hyllested (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following legislative proposals: Draft law amending the Registration Tax Act. L 116). Does anyone wish to maintain this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed. The parliamentary group of the alternative has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143513	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143559	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 30 of Karina Adsbøl (DF), Anni Matthiesen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against voting 46 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 5 (RV). Proposal for adoption No V 30 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 31 by Malou Lunderød (S), Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143701	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 34 by Bent Bøgsted (DF), Hans Andersen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Erik Lund (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 34 is adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 32 by Finn Sørensen (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 33 of Leif Lahn Jensen (S) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143800	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 36 by Nick Hækkerup (S), Mads Fuglede (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Naser Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0). Proposal for adoption No V-36 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 35 by Mr Søren Espersen (DF) and motion for a resolution No. V 37 of Christian Juhl (EL) and Ulla Sandbæk (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143854	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143915	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143938	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211143955	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144020	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144034	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), against 18 (EL, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144101	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144118	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144146	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144206	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote may end. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144238	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144254	Thank you. Since we dealt with the proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have become aware that the proposal may have some unintended and negative consequences for the ability of the police to use GPS assembly. That was not the point of the draft law, which is why we would like to have it back in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and look at it again before the third reading. I hope we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144319	There is a desire to get the proposal back in committee, but we will vote on the amendments and then it will come back in committee. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144332	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV, ALT and SF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. We'll take it easy so the Left can keep up. That concludes the vote. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Thus, the amendment on the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-4, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Upon request, the bill shall return to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144442	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, then the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144511	First we vote on L 84. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, KF and IA), on Amendment No 1. 2-4, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of ALT) on Amendment No 2. 5, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, KF and IA) or on Amendment No 5. 6-12, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT)? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on L 85. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of ALT and SF) on Amendment No 1. 2 or on Amendment No 2 by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT) or by a majority of its members. 3, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT and SF)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144613	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144633	Thank you for the floor. Inuit Ataqatigiit has taken the initiative for a report contribution for which a political majority has been obtained. Thus, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF, the Inuit Ataqatigiit and the Nunatta Qitornai believe that efforts should be made to ensure that those sentenced to detention who continue to choose to serve in Herstedvester prison also have access to the special offers today, including Greenlandic diets, Greenlandic education, etc. There is a political majority which, during the conciliation on criminal justice, abolished family travel and accompanied travel to Greenland so that it is not part of the offers that the parties mentioned want to preserve. The majority therefore recommend that the Greenlandic inmates in Herstedvester, who choose to stay in Herstedvester after the law enters into force, should have access to the Greenlandic offers. Inuit Ataqatigiit would like to thank the parties for their support for the report's contribution and, in particular, to thank the Radical Left for their legwork in this regard. We also hope that there will continue to be support for the proposal once we have identified the economic consequences of maintaining the offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144754	Thank you very much to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144804	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144816	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211144854	The first vote will be on the amendment to L 67. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? It's agreed. The amendments to L 73 are then put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of S)? It's agreed. We have a technical thing that makes us take it a little easy on the fact that we have to vote now. Then the technique is with us again and Amendment No is voted on. 2 of a minority (RV) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 5 (RV), against voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 46 (S, EL, ALT and SF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of S)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145154	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145208	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145223	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145240	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145255	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145314	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145330	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145355	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145410	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145429	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145450	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145517	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145539	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145624	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145648	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145716	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145747	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145837	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145857	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211145939	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150009	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150036	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150054	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150109	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150130	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150210	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150229	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150306	We will take a little break while those who need to get out of the Chamber can get out of the Chamber in good order. Then I think we'll move on. The debate is open and we go directly to the rapporteurs, and that is first Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150441	On behalf of all the parties of the Folketing, I must inform you that we take note of the Ombudsman's report in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150453	I should like to know if anyone else wishes to speak. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal should not be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs but go directly to 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150509	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211150526	Following the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, the government must seek the legal basis for banning and closing the Masjid Al-Faruq Mosque on Nørrebro. Let me make it clear from the outset that I strongly reject the statements made by an imam during a Friday sermon in the mosque at Nørrebro, and from the view of human beings expressed by such statements. There should be no doubt about that. What, then, is the resolution about? As mentioned, the Danish People's Party wants to examine more closely what the legal possibilities are for disbanding a possible association behind this mosque, and it is generally the case that it is the Attorney General who is responsible for preparing such a statement. In other words, the motion for a resolution is not about the mosque itself in the strict sense, i.e. the premises used for the activities of the mosque in question at Nørrebro, but about a possible association behind this mosque. I would like to stress that if these people are moving on the wrong side of the law, the response of society must be consistent and if, within the framework of the constitution, there is a possibility of dissolution, then I believe that this is an opportunity that we, as a society, must take advantage of. Let me begin with section 67 of the Constitution on freedom of religion, which the authors themselves also mention. It follows from the provision that citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that is consistent with their beliefs, but that nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. The provision guarantees citizens the freedom of assembly and freedom of expression of a religious association. However, freedom of religion is not unlimited according to the provision, since the law can lay down the framework for freedom of religion as required by the principle of morality or public order. The provision, taken together, sets the limit for state power that it is prevented from taking action against the worship of the citizens in association with religious communities, if this action is justified solely by a disapproval of the religion in question as such. On the other hand, legislation that affects worship can be implemented when legislation is not intended to counteract the worship involved but is justified by the protection of morals or public order. It is assumed that the legislature is left with a wide discretion in determining what is meant by morality or public order. Examples of what may be considered to be covered by public policy and which are not protected by Article 67 of the Constitution may be mentioned the acts covered by the Order of Procedure or the provisions of the Criminal Code. Then there is the question of the dissolution of an association by judgment. This question is governed by Article 78 of the Constitution. First of all, it means that citizens can form associations for any legitimate purpose without first having to ask for permission. So in the Danish constitution there is a fundamental ban on the censorship of associations. Conversely, the provision provides for the possibility of the dissolution of an association which has already been formed. The dissolution can be done by judgment and presupposes an association within the meaning of the Constitution. If it is not an association, there is nothing to dissolve, if you may say so. Resolution also requires the association to have an illegal purpose, for example. that it seeks to achieve its objective by violence and that evidence can be provided in connection with any dissolution proceedings. Whether an association can be said to have an illegal purpose depends on an overall assessment which emphasizes everything that can illustrate this. The dissolution of an association by judgment on the ground that the association has an illegal purpose will generally only be the case if the association or its members, as a general part of the association's activities, violate or intend to violate the law. Now to the relevant mosque on Nørrebro to get closer to what is at stake today. As I have said, it is particularly information on criminal offences that can justify a dissolution. The prosecution has reported that an imam from the mosque at Nørrebro is charged with welcoming the killing of Jews in a Friday sermon from March 2017. The case is scheduled for 26 March 2019. In addition, the Attorney General has no knowledge of persons who, in relation to the mosque, are indicted or convicted of criminal offences. At present, therefore, the only known possible criminal offence is a serious charge against a single imam. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice considers that at this stage there is no basis for asking the Attorney General whether an investigation should be carried out as to whether Article 78 of the Constitution provides for the dissolution of a possible association behind the mosque. This does not mean, of course, that the authorities should not pay attention to relations with the mosque. As a society, we must challenge the statements that attempt to undermine the values and standards on which our society is based, and I have therefore asked the Attorney General to set up a reporting system in which the Attorney General is to receive on an ongoing basis reports of cases in which a person is convicted for, as part of religious training, express approval of acts such as this. Killing Jews. The purpose of the reporting scheme is to follow developments closely, including in relation to their association with any associations. The scheme ensures that the Attorney General has the necessary information on a regular basis to assess whether there are grounds for examining whether there are criminal offences which justify the dissolution of a possible association by judgment. We need to pay more attention to these matters and their importance for the question of dissolution by judgment. There should be no doubt that I believe that if it can be proved that such associations are intended to promote criminal statements, they should be dissolved. I would also like to mention that the prosecution is currently preparing a case for the dissolution of another association, namely Loyal to Familia, and, contrary to this case, where there is only one possible criminal offence, there is, as you know, a considerable overall amount of criminal offences that the prosecution considers can be attributed to the LTF. I would like to conclude by strongly condemning the statements now indicted, but I do not believe that this provides a basis for asking the Attorney-General to look at the possibility of a dissolution case against a possible association behind that mosque, and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Having said that, we need to make sure that the people we are giving up in our country will actually want Denmark and Danish values. Here I would like briefly to mention the national sanction list of foreign religious ministers as an example of legislation that helps to ensure that we do not get the wrong people into our country. To be included in the list of sanctions has the meaning that a foreigner will be excluded from entry or stay in Denmark or another Schengen country because there is reason to believe that he or she will pose a threat to public order if he or she is allowed to enter Denmark. There are now two religious Witnesses on the national sanction list who have spoken in the mosque before their inclusion on the list. The two persons are now excluded from entry or stay in Denmark or another Schengen country and will therefore not be able to enter to speak in the mosque as long as they are on the list. If they enter anyway, they will be punished for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151300	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151303	As I understand the Minister, it is therefore felt that it is necessary to have a criminal relationship before looking at whether the Attorney General should open an investigation into the mosque. But what we want is for one to look at it for the purpose of §67, that is to say this about whether something is learned that is contrary to the morals. There I would like to hear: have you had cases in this area in the past, that is to say you have actually had a case under § 67, and does it really make sense to say that you can only open a case when there is an offence?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151351	I cannot stand here and mention cases which I am happy to reply to in writing during the committee procedure. The reason I am referring to the LTF is precisely to mention that something needs to be done before you can use that argument to dissolve an association. This isn't just about the rooms in the mosque or else I completely misunderstood the proposal. It is about the association that is behind it and, if you are to be able to dissolve it, there must be a probability when you start such a case that you can bring that case to judgment. We have experienced this with other associations, but it is extensive, and at least more needs to be done than what is now in place. And then the questioner can ask me just where that limit goes, and I cannot say that exactly, because that is an assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151441	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151442	No, I do not want to ask where that limit goes, but I would like to ask whether there has ever been an examination of that limit with regard to Article 67, which is, after all, the paragraph on freedom of religion and not on freedom of assembly. These are two paragraphs we ask that you examine it according to, and when it comes to Loyal to Familia, it is only § 78, I think it is, while this is also covered by § 67, and I think that is new land we enter, if I may say so. But of course I am not an expert in this area, so I do not know if there have been cases in the past, but that is what I am asking, i.e. if the Minister of Justice knows, and I think it would be interesting to be able to make a statement on the previous use of §67.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151525-2	I would very much like to look into that. I simply cannot answer it accurately from up here, and I would like to make sure that I reply correctly. So I'm looking forward to a question about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151539	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211151554	Thank you. As rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, I have also read the proposal there that it was the dissolution of an association based on what has been said by the Imam of the Association. There should be no doubt that we, as a party, reject the rhetoric, the attitudes and opinions and the calls that come from these hateful places. It is incredibly cross-border that people in such positions call for violence and terrorist acts if they take place. The motion for a resolution is, in particular, a concrete sermon, as the Imam announced in March 2017, and for which the Public Prosecutor indicted that imam in July 2018, that is, a long time after. As far as I remember, on 26 March 2019, that is to say, 2 years after those statements have fallen. The indictment sounds, as I read it in a press release, that the prosecution is indicting a hate preacher because the imam has said: Judgment day does not arise until Muslims fight the Jews so that the Muslims kill them, and the Jew will hide behind stones and trees, and the stone and the trees will say: O, Muslim, o, the worshiper of God, who is a Jew behind me, then come and kill him. The Imam in question therefore welcomes the killing of Jews. One simply cannot have such attitudes in Denmark towards other fellow citizens in Danish society or in the world. In an open democracy with constitutional freedoms, it is unheard of that the freedoms one has to believe and think and speak and to form associations are abused to preach hatred and violence, even cheap killings of concrete fellow citizens. In my opinion, our old constitution has very strong clauses on our freedoms, including the rights to form associations and to cultivate its god. However, such rights are never without limits, and if we are over in the rules of the law of faith, there are, in fact, limits to what has been mentioned here in the previous question, about morality and public order. But then you are over in recognized religions with regard to some of the conditions. It is therefore a good thing that the courts are now going to decide what can be said by an imam who is not employed in a recognised religion. For the mosque we are talking about today has not sought any approval, so it is not on the list of recognized religions. This also means that the law we have passed on the supervision of other religions outside the church or decorum requirements for the clergy do not apply here immediately. So that's what's gonna be exciting to clarify. We are very much in line with what the Minister of Justice has said, and we have received an answer, even before we started the discussions here. The statement made by the Minister in his speech here seems to me to say the things that have been raised in the motion for a resolution, namely that it will be very difficult to go that way in order to close or break up the association that is behind the mosque we are talking about. However, we want to abolish parallel societies, and we want to get into dialogue in some way with the societies that preach hatred, just as we want to show them that we distance ourselves from that. I would also like to say here, because I am also a church and religious rapporteur, that there are actually quite a lot of clergy leaders across religions who have a formidable cooperation to promote intercultural understanding, religious tolerance and peace. There you would like some of the clergy, who are not among recognised religions, to also come into some networks where they not only continue the Old Norse view of other people and talk down about others or do cultural or social control, both within their own ranks, but certainly also outside their own ranks. We can only distance ourselves from this. We do not believe that we will get much further in relation to a statement when so few cases are built on here. As far as I understand, there is in fact only this one case, and it has not yet been settled in a court of law. So it may be that the time ahead will say something different. But as the matter stands right now, we cannot support B 14. But we have noted that the Minister of Justice is now opening up a reporting system, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152048	We would like to thank Mrs Karen J. Klint and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Karen J. Klint. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152122	Thank you for the floor. With this resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want the government to search the legal basis for banning and closing the Masjid Al-Faruq Mosque on Nørrebro. The authors of the motion for a resolution describe that the reason for this is that in July 2018 the Public Prosecutor indicted Imam Mundhir Abdallah from the Mosque to welcome the killing of Jews. These are statements which, of course, the Left strongly opposes. That cannot be emphasised enough. There seems to be an anti-Semitic ghost going through Europe again, and it is terrible to witness. However, according to Article 78 of the Constitution, the dissolution of an association by judgment requires, for example, that the association: seeks to achieve its goal by violence, and the Attorney General is not aware of any other person who, in relation to the mosque at Nørrebro, is accused or convicted of criminal offences. The charge against the imam is, as we know, the only possible criminal offence. There is therefore no reason at this stage to ask the Attorney General whether studies should be carried out as to whether a possible association behind the mosque can be dissolved in accordance with Article 78 of the Constitution. So we should not put the Constitution at risk because of one man's crazy statements. Of course, we should not look passively if our Danish standards and values are not complied with and they are being undermined in certain environments. The authorities must therefore keep a watchful eye on relations with these associations. This also applies to the mosque at Nørrebro. If it turns out that there is an association behind which is intended to promote criminal statements, it must, of course, be dissolved. So far, this does not seem to be the case at this stage, so the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152324	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152352	Thank you for that, President. In assessing this proposal, we must first of all be aware of the fact that we are in a position to tamper with fundamental rights. The right to practise one's religion in the best way possible and the right to freely organise oneself in an association are some of the pillars of our society. Our insistence that the rights conferred by the Constitution on citizens not only apply to those who are desirable is in many ways what separates us from the fundamentalists. However, it must also be admitted that the Constitution provides for the possibility of breaking up an association. This is an option reserved for quite extreme cases. It applies to associations which act by violence, incitement to violence or the like. It's probably pretty telling that it's hard to ban gangs when you use this paragraph, that the ban on Loyal to Familia for many is controversial. The authors list a number of people who have committed serious crime and who have had some connection with the mosque. This applies both to Said Mansour and Omar el-Hussein, and then imam Mundhir Abdallah has a pending case. It is also mentioned that Hizb ut-Tahir is holding events in the mosque. It must be said that it is not strong evidence that the mosque works by violence, that some quite extreme people have come into the mosque. The imam is for me to see potentially more problematic for the mosque, but of course we have to wait for a verdict. As far as Hizb ut-Tahrir is concerned, I am aware that it is just an association which means some completely crazy things, but which otherwise complies with the laws of Denmark. You're supposed to keep these things up against what's going on in, for example. Loyal to Familia, it is quite clear that there is a clear level difference. In my view, it is clear that this cannot be done within the framework of the Constitution. You will be naive if you do not think that crazy and anti-democratic things are being preached in the mosque in question, that there are major problems in the environment and that we must keep a close eye on it and then, moreover, make sure that those who violate the law are convicted. But for me, the constitution is far more than just nice words that need to be pushed aside when it is inconvenient. One cannot claim that one can prove that an association works by violence on the basis of one imam's unsolved case and two other mosque-goers' gross crime. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152711	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Sorry, at the last minute a request for a brief comment was made by Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152719	I just had time to get in here on the fall. It is just because I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that this is all about a statement on the legal possibilities. There is no desire for anyone to be judged in advance. This is just an issue that comes up more and more frequently, and we therefore believe that there is simply a need to try to find out where the limits of sections 67 and 78 of the Constitution actually go. It was just because it sounded like the rapporteur thought this was a proposal to close the mosque. We cannot, of course, propose this in the Assembly, but it is not a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152759	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152800	Well, I'm sorry if in my speech I've come to put myself in such a way that it could be misunderstood. After all, we have an attorney general, and it is my feeling that he listens a lot to the signals that are also being sent by the government. And for a long time a clear signal has been sent that we will not accept that violence is being preached in mosques. This is something that I believe a broad majority in the Folketing wants to be defeated, but it is he who has to decide whether action can be taken against the mosque in question. In relation to the specific individuals, action has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152855	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152857	But the proposal is that we should like to have an explanation of the possibilities for action, not that we should take immediate action and close the mosque. Of course, we cannot do so, but that we should do so through the judicial bodies, but on the basis of our constitution, when we actually have a limit to freedom of religion, where we must not preach anything that is contrary to morality and public order. There is therefore reason to be aware that these are more and more problems that arise because we have now received so many foreign preachers in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152937	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211152938	I fully agree that the stories that we see and which have also been shown on TV 2 with the broadcast "Mosques behind the veil', etc., are very problematic, but I am also of the very clear opinion that this is something that is taken very seriously in the government and in the Folketing widely. And I am sure that the government, through the Minister of Justice, would very much like in the forums we have, such as consultations and other forums where we also meet, to explain what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153021	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen and proceed to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153034	Thank you. I shall start by saying that in the alternative we cannot support this resolution either. In relation to the debate that was just about to ask for a legal opinion and a statement, I think that what the Minister for Justice read out when he was up here just now is an assessment that the Ministry of Justice has actually made in response to a question relating to this legal procedure. So that assessment is in fact already in the paper from which the Minister actually read. So I don't quite understand what it really is you want. In other words, we can ask a ministerial question asking the Ministry to explain what legal means are available to ban the mosque. So I see that it is in that answer, but it may be that there is something I have misunderstood. Otherwise, however, I am completely in the process of slipping on the speakers who have been up here, both in relation to one thing and the other. First of all, I do so in relation to strongly rejecting the statements that we know have come from this mosque, which has been called for the killing of Jews, and fortunately there is also criminal proceedings in relation to those statements, so we can say that our criminal system is working as it should. Having said that, we are, of course, in the process of slipping on the rapporteurs who have said that there is something more to be done than a single criminal case before we can start looking at whether an association is carrying out its activities by violence. So I am very much in agreement with what the Minister said and with the other rapporteurs who have been up here, and therefore we cannot support the resolution. And I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153204	We thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153214	I don't have to add a lot of words. In the Radical Left, too, we are totally behind the statements made by the Minister and the government here. And we, like everyone else, condemn to such an extent all the hateful, racist utterances and calls, both for the killing of certain groups and for repression, which some of these extremist imams have made. As several rapporteurs and the Minister have also mentioned, criminal proceedings are under way. Let's hope it leads to something. We must stick to our strong democracy. As the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is aware, we in the Radical Left have, back in time, tried to break up certain associations and have also examined the provisions of the Constitution for it. And I should not add much more than to say that we cannot support the resolution either, but are behind the Minister for Justice's statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153325	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153343	In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about the radicalising statements and actions emanating from the Masjid Al-Faruq Mosque in Heimdalsgade. It is about these very unpleasant statements about calls for the killing of Jews; it is about statements about calls for an invasion of Europe; it is about the terrorist Omar El-Hussei came to the mosque and was there shortly before he committed the murder of Finn Nørgaard and Dan Uzan; it is about the terrorist Said Mansour has had his time there; and it is about the fact that it is a mosque, which in some places is called Hizb ut-Tahir's mosque, because Hizb ut-Tahir has a very close relationship with the mosque. That is why we are simply afraid that our freedom of religion is being used to undermine our free society in reality. We find this creepy and it is a risk that we would like to have investigated. That is why we want to make a statement which, on the basis of section 67, that is, our religious freedom clause in the Constitution, and on the basis of our freedom to form associations, looks at whether religious freedom has been extended too far. For we have freedom of religion, but only for so long that nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. It has to be said that encouraging the killing of Jews or an invasion of Europe or supporting Hizb ut-Tahrir may be out to touch those borders. That is what we would like to see investigated, and I am actually a little surprised that no one else would like to do so. But if we cannot get it through a motion for a resolution, hopefully we can do so via questions to the Ministry, and then we can at least get some assessments from there. It seems to me that there is a risk that our freedom of religion will suffer, so that organisations that can call themselves religious organisations can actually have the freedom to undermine our free society. I think that is a real threat that we need to look at. We must therefore be aware that some of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves, for example. has been able to ban Hizb ut-Tahir. They have done so in Germany, and there are many other countries too, but they are countries with which we will not compare ourselves to which Hizb ut-Tahir has been banned. But in Denmark, such an organization works completely freely and apparently has a location or is at least active in the Masjid Al-Faruq Mosque. In Austria they have been able to close mosques. So there are European countries with which we would normally like to compare ourselves, which actually look more seriously at these problems. I don't think this is going to go away. I think this is a long-standing problem for us, with extreme Islamic organisations and religions that will preach things that we have not usually liked in Denmark. That is why I seriously believe that we need to clarify exactly where the limits are for Article 67. I am, of course, sorry that there have been no parties here today who have wanted to support it, but we will then try to clarify those borders in other ways through ministerial issues and what else can be done, because, unfortunately, this is something that is so much needed to control whether it is possible to restrict religious associations working to undermine the freedom that we have in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153801	There is a short question from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153805	I would just like to say, as rapporteur for my party, that if there is a more neutral and general interpretation of section 67, we would very much like to see how we can do so. It was because it is hung up on a specific named imam, where naming just like saying that it is some other rules of the game that apply. But we would like to see a general, modernised interpretation. We have also mentioned this in the second committee, where we have approved legislative proposals for the other religions outside the church. So we are in favour of a more general debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153842-2	In that case, you can ask the question: an association based on Article 67, that is, our freedom of religion, and at the same time preaching the killing of Jews, a new invasion of Europe, supporting Hizb ut-Tahir, etc., is it an association that is at odds with Article 67 of the Constitution? You can easily ask all the questions we have asked here where you just cross out the Masjid Al-Faruq mosque. I guess that's not a problem. However, I believe that we need to use this as a springboard to examine the general conditions so that we are ready to act in connection with this kind of shouting. If you now find that this is on the brink of religious freedom, then you have to be prepared to act if that happens again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153947	Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211153948	As far as I remember the details of the constitution, it is also defined there, what one understands by religious activity and not just an association. They're beans and stuff. So let's just look at it. But the question is, which committee is the most right one and which minister should we ask, but we would like to help look at the demarcation of it, an understanding, a 2020 edition or the 2019 edition of § 67, and how it should be experienced today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154017	Yes, but I thank you for your support in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154025	We thank Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154035	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154106	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the SF proposal to impose an age limit on the government by 1 April 2019 for the purchase of nitrous oxide. At the same time, SF proposes strengthening the safety authority's control of nitrous oxide sold on the Internet. According to the proposers, an age limit must ensure that young people under the age of 18 cannot buy nitrous oxide and thus limit their ability to use nitrous oxide as a drug. The government shares the intention behind the resolution to avoid young people using nitrous oxide for intoxicating purposes. I can tell you that out there, where I live, these laughter gas cartridges are floating all over the place. I don't think it was more than a month ago that one night I walked around out there where I live, and without exaggeration I would say that there were probably 100 rounds on the ground in such a large pile, and then there were two young people sleeping in a car next door. These are the pictures you see around, at least where I live, and I think that in many places in Denmark you are familiar with the problem that these cartridges are simply all over the place. It is very, very clear that there is a growing problem and that it has become very popular in certain circles among young people to take nitrous oxide as a drug. And that's not the point of these laughter gas rounds. So we are very much in agreement with the aim here that we should have done something about that. However, there is part of the resolution that we do not agree with. To put it briefly, we believe that there are better solutions than what has been proposed here in the motion for a resolution. It is not entirely unproblematic to introduce an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide. Among other things, it would. send, we think, a wrong signal to young people that if you're over 18, it's okay to use nitrous oxide for intoxication purposes. And it's not. For example, when we have age limits for alcohol and tobacco, we accept that it is okay to take it if you are above the age limit. If we make an age limit for nitrous oxide, it will have a bit of the same meaning, that is to say, that if you are over 18 years old, it is a legitimate drug. And we don't think it should be. We would like to maintain that it must be illegal to sell nitrous oxide to everyone, regardless of age, if it is for intoxicating purposes. And it is important to stress that it is already today, in turn, we would like to meet the proposers in relation to the part about the safety authority's control of nitrous oxide sold online. Here we are going to strengthen the screening of the Internet to find ads associated with the sale of nitrous oxide as a drug. The Security Authority will also continue to monitor the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges for intoxication purposes in relation to specific notifications thereof. Unfortunately, it is difficult for the Danish Security Authority today to prove when a sale is made for intoxication purposes, and thus when it is an illegal sale. There are obvious cases where it is on the menu of a disco club, which is obviously illegal, because then it is quite clearly for intoxicating purposes. We must stop that, and we can stop it today in the field of existing legislation. And we have therefore chosen to strengthen that effort. However, in many other cases, it is not clear either for a company or for the Safety Authority whether nitrous oxide is bought to make whipped cream, or whether it is bought for intoxication. That is why we are proposing to introduce a limit on the quantity of nitrous oxide. A quantitative restriction would facilitate the burden of proof as to whether a sale is illegal or not. If you buy nitrous oxide to make whipped cream, which is the common, recognizable purpose of these laughter gas cartridges, you don't need 100 of them unless you make really, really much whipped cream. Then it's probably in addition to such common consumption, unless you have a bakery or a pastry shop, maybe you need these large quantities. But as an ordinary citizen, you don't need much. Therefore, the assessment is that a quantity limitation would have a rather small impact on the sale of nitrous oxide for legitimate purposes. There must be a natural limit to the needs of ordinary citizens for whipped cream. That is at least the view of the government. And if you sell very large quantities of bullets on the Internet or in physical shops, it indicates that the sale is for the purpose of abuse. Furthermore, it would be more in line with existing legislation than an age limitation, in which, regardless of age, it is illegal to sell for intoxicating purposes. From the pharmaceutical sector there is experience with smaller packs, as large packs of weak painkillers were made prescription-free from 30 September 2013 and then it has only been possible to buy packs of 20 pieces or less over the counter, and this has led to the sale of these painkillers having decreased. An analysis by the Statens Serum Institut from 2014 shows that the total amount of weak painkillers sold after the introduction of this quantity restriction decreased by approx. one quarter compared to the same period the previous year. So the experience we have with quantity limitation suggests that it has an effect. And it certainly seems that we can't prove it, but we have a clear view of it as if it would also have a great effect on nitrous oxide. If you are going to take 100 cartridges, like these young people, whom I saw sleeping in a car a month ago, and if we then have a quantity limit which could be somewhere about 5-10 pieces, perhaps even less, then you have to go around a lot of shops to buy in to get such a rush as some of the young people are up on. That is why we have the impression that it will make it very much more difficult to obtain nitrous oxide for intoxicating purposes, especially for those who have cultivated an abuse, so they must have a very large number of cartridges in order to get the rush they want. In addition to control and quantity limitation, the government also focuses on preventing young people from using nitrous oxide as a drug. The Minister of Health has informed me that the Danish Health Authority is preparing information material for an information effort locally in the spring of 2019. So I would like to stress that it is the government's concern to avoid young people using nitrous oxide as a drug. We would like to meet the proposers by increasing controls on the Internet. Then we would like to introduce a quantitative limit which would make it easier to enforce controls and thereby limit the sale of nitrous oxide as a drug. However, if there is support for the motion for a resolution, I would note that entry into force on 1 April 2019 could be very difficult. This is because an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide must be notified in the EU. That notification will take three months, and that will probably require a slightly faster process than we will be able to respond to immediately, among other things. the Commission does not raise any objections to the proposal. So it's just a small reservation, if there's a majority, then we're gonna talk about a schedule, I suggest. However, as I said, we do not support the motion for a resolution because there is a bad purpose in it, but because we believe that there are more effective solutions to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154931	Thank you, Minister. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211154936	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for recognising the problem. I have also listened to in the last few days that people are saying to reach, that's what the small cartridges are meant for, and that they may in fact be both surprised and shocked that these cartridges are being used as a drug. That is, of course, also the reason for the proposal, and I think it is some good proposals that the Minister is making, with the Security Authority, which might be able to screen something more, and some volume limitation, and perhaps you could also look at what some shops are offering it. But isn't the Minister thinking that it would make sense to send out a signal that these cartridges should not under any circumstances be sold to young people under the age of 18? Then you could expect young people to be at least a little bit smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155023-2	Yes, I think it is possible to ask young people to be smarter than to consume laughter gas for intoxicating purposes. Because that doesn't seem very wise. As I have said, it is our view that it may well be wrong to set an age limit as if it were legitimate to use nitrous oxide for intoxicating purposes if you are over 18 years of age, and that is why we believe that there should be a general ban on selling it for intoxicating purposes for all age groups. And we have the odds of how we do it, as I explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155107	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155108	However, as the Minister has said, it is already illegal to sell for intoxicating purposes. So no matter how, it won't be legal. Nevertheless, the young people buy these cartridges, and of course a quantity limit can help to limit them, but of course no more. Could one imagine, for example, a limited sale, so that kiosks stop selling the products, and could one imagine that one could limit the number of shops that are allowed to operate this product at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155140-2	Yeah, you can do that. That would be technically possible, I would say, but we think, as I said, that a limit on quantity is a very good and effective solution. In any case, we would like to try it first, and then, of course, we can follow developments. But we must always bear in mind that we should not have too cumbersome arrangements where we should sit and apply for the right to sell certain things if there are more effective ways of achieving what we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155218	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155219	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is making some other suggestions on how to deal with this major problem, and my question is actually about some of the same thing about distribution. Does the Minister not think that it is problematic that ordinary kiosks inside Copenhagen can buy such things? Well, it's not the kind of place you normally have to buy things you put on a sip to stand and make whipped cream with. So it makes no sense that it should be a distribution link. Then it could not be considered to say that now we have to go back to the fact that it is being sold by hardware dealers, for example.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155306-2	I was not immediately aware that it had been the case that it had to be sold to hardware dealers earlier. However, this is the case today within the law, as I also explained, that if it is sold in places where it is quite clear that it is a matter of using it solely for intoxicating purposes, for example. in a disco where it is on a menu with drinks, for example, it will be illegal even today. Because it's illegal to sell it for intoxicating purposes. But what's legal is buying it to make whipped cream, and you can buy it in a kiosk. Well, there's nothing wrong with that. It's actually a very natural place to buy it if it's that you have to make whipped cream, isn't it? They also sell sugar and milk and everything else, and we do not think there was any reason to prohibit that, especially if it is that it can only be obtained in so small quantities that it cannot be used for intoxicating purposes. There is a very big difference between how much you need, if you are going to make some whipped cream, and if you are going to be drunk, and that is why we believe that a quantity limit is a fairly effective way to address the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155411	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155413	At first glance, I think you're in pretty bad faith if you like kiosks buy a whole lot of these rounds that just go like hot bread in the kiosk. TV 2 Lorry sent two young people here in September, and one 16-year-old high school student bought these cartridges in nine different kiosks in 3 hours, just got it handed over. But you can't really get alcohol and everything else. So could it not make sense that, just as you do with fireworks, there are some specific places that can be bought, so that the rules that are already there are not violated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155455	There are at least some places and in some situations you should not be allowed to buy it, and that is if it is obvious for use in drunkenness, such as in a disco, which I mentioned, right? However, as a starting point, we do not think that this should be prohibited, because it is also worthy of recognition when it is in small quantities and you are not a pastry shop. And then, as a bourgeois government, we also have the approach to ban that we would rather try something less intrusive first and then see how far we can go with it, rather than immediately resorting to a more intrusive ban, which does not necessarily appear to be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155539	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155541	Thank you. I have requested from the Minister for Health that we have a joint discussion on this subject. Because there are many aspects of it and many opportunities to regulate it, and I really think that would be best. It is good that we have the opportunity to discuss this resolution here today, but perhaps it is the Minister of Industry who is right to ask instead. Will the government take the initiative for us to have some joint discussions, where we sort of come around on this subject, among other things. This question about distributors? It could also be the question of what the Danish Health Authority is doing, that is to say that we're looking at this area across the board. Because I actually hear that we have a common interest in trying to address this growing abuse of nitrous oxide, and I think it would be a much better solution we could find if we could sit around a table and clarify the problem together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155628	I do not think that the government is suggesting that we should have very big negotiations on the subject. We are more committed to solving the problem and believe that we have a good idea of how we are doing what we intend to do so quickly, we can get support for it from the Folketing. And we hope that the parties will support that. Of course, we always want to have a talk about things, but for us the problem is fairly well illustrated. There is no doubt that there is a major problem among young people at the moment, nor is there any doubt that action must be taken against it. And we have some solutions which we would very much like to see put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155707	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155708	No one is saying that it needs to be very big negotiations on financial law or electric cars, or whatever else it is, but I think it would actually be sensible and factual for all parties who have an interest in trying to solve this problem to meet and look at the problem all around and see what we can do. And to me, there is nothing to prevent you, for example. the initiative being taken by the Minister for Industry today, but I also think there are other aspects that we need to clarify. So it is a call that has been passed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155740-2	Well, it's received, and thank you for that. I think I will leave it to the Minister for Health whether there should be a greater discussion of prevention and a larger plan for it. In relation to the initiatives for which I am responsible as Minister of Industry, it is mostly about the control and sale of nitrous oxide. At any rate, I think that we are ready to take action without the need for a big round of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155806	We thank the Minister and start the rapporteur's round. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211155816	The Social Democrats support this motion for a resolution from the SF. It's a good thing it's coming out. I must also say to the Secretariat that the Radical Left also supports the bill. This is going to be a rather paradoxical discussion because, on the one hand, we are talking about nitrous oxide and, on the other hand, we are talking about whipped cream. It is not at all the seriousness of the resolution that we are discussing whipped cream. However, there are, unfortunately, products which can have both a positive and a very negative use, and this is actually very serious because nitrous oxide can really cause poisoning. That is why we really must ensure, as a society, that information is provided about the negative consequences of the use of substances which are harmful and dangerous. It is the case that nitrous oxide can have a euphoric effect, and it is, of course, the one who is seeking, but it can cause a poisoning. I am a trained anesthesia nurse, and I have helped to use real, very much laughter gas in the right context, namely where it serves a positive purpose. Therefore, I also know professionally how dangerous it can be if it is administered and used in contexts it is not intended. I think it is right to make a ban. Now we have heard the Minister of Industry say that you do not want to make a regulation. We have heard the Minister for Industry say, and it is also clear from the motion for a resolution, that it is forbidden to sell these products for intoxicating purposes. Yeah, but who controls what? What is the schism and the problem here is whether you buy it for a legal purpose or whether you buy it for intoxicating purposes where it can really be dangerous. Many people bear a responsibility in this context, and I believe that if you introduce an 18-year rule, parents cannot send children and young people into a retailer to buy the cartridges, because an age ID will be required, just as you do in the area of alcohol and tobacco, and thus you will also send a very broad signal to society that these cartridges of nitrous oxide are dangerous products. I think we are sending a very bad and weak signal, as it is at present, and therefore it is right to resort to an age limit in relation to the sale of nitrous oxide in such cartridges. Do we know enough about consumption, abuse, problems? I don't think we know enough. That is why I also think it was an interesting question that came, I think it was from Mrs Stine Brix, in relation to whether we should have a broader political discussion on the abuse and danger of products such as textiles. Laughter gas, too. I also think, as the Minister says, that we in the Health Committee are now the most health rapporteurs here today must ensure that this discussion is over in the Health Committee. In any case, I would very much like to take part in this initiative. We must also dwell on what the highest national health authority, the Health Authority, says. The Danish Health Authority outlines the risks of poisoning by the use of nitrous oxide from these cartridges, and they also say that the marketing and sale of gas cartridges for intoxication should therefore be stopped. So we politicians also get a hint from the highest national health authority with a rod that something needs to be done about it. Another area where something needs to be done about it is, of course, in the retail trade, although the ban is there at the moment, but a salesman in a utility association, a grocery store or a kiosk is not asking for the purpose. That's also why we're giving the Security Authority, which has the control task in this area, incredibly bad cards on hand. It's no use. We have discussed the control of dangerous substances very much, including the control of substances that are dangerous to health in other ways, i.e. alcohol and tobacco, and here there is, of course, a great political difference at least between what the government wants and what the Social Democratic Party wants. In the tobacco sector, we want an authority with some muscle that can do something to carry out the task. We do not want what the government is proposing to do in the tobacco sector, which must be moved to the Security Council, and then there should not even be a whole year's work to carry out the task that is a new task. This is a poor priority on the part of the government in areas that are being looked at with great seriousness. So we support this resolution and we look forward to having a political debate on it too, and hopefully it will also lead to other initiatives that the Minister of Business is putting forward, so that we can also sort out the very large trade that is via the Internet, which is a huge challenge when we talk about control and sanctions. However, as I said, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal and so does the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160319	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160327	Thank you very much. Why do you think there are young people who think it's funny to use these little rounds of laughter gas in them? I wonder why they're doing this. Because is it not much that we should tackle when we talk about the use of drugs by young people at all? We have a lot to do all the time with legislation on age, or whatever it may be, as this proposal will certainly do. When I go and see all these laughter gas cartridges, they're with a bunch of cigarette butts and a bunch of empty beer cans. In other words, it is the same young people who drink beer or spirits that also smoke and use gas cartridges. As far as I am aware, it is prohibited for young people with alcohol and cigarettes, so the question is whether an age limit would enable them not to use it. Compared to the bill itself, I also went in and Googled a little. You don't have to be a lot of seconds online until you see a lot of places where you can buy laughter gas cartridges, and the problem is that afterwards they pop up all the time, every time you go on social media, in advertisements that you can buy a large package of 100 pieces in here. So I think it is some interesting proposals that have been put on the table, also by the Minister, that instead of the young people buying these giant packs, they could at least limit it. Another thing, of course, is to go after those who sell these gaskets to private customers. Of course, those who have a restaurant or something that makes them use these siphones very often, i.e. those used for whipped cream, can buy those packs. When you sell them through a wholesaler's joint or you have a CVR number, it does mean you can get those packs, which are a little bigger, to these restaurants and bars, and what else is. But it's not for private individuals. Another thing is that when you get a hold of some of these people who sell online or in kiosks, then you have to make sure that it doesn't pay off. I don't know how much money they make on these, but a small cartridge costs 3 kroner, so I'm thinking it should be felt too. But compared to seeing the young people take a lot of • I read about someone who had consumed 360 laughter gas cartridges a week • there must be some profit on. So I think that the Minister must also look at a fine that makes it not worthwhile. So when we talk about drugs, we also have to look at what we can do. We see too many young people experimenting with different things. We've seen unhappy deaths over the past few months because of experiments. There too, I think we need to go out as a society, as politicians, as civil society and help lift it and inform our young people about taking responsibility for living a healthy life and not trying out all the things of the world that can have a fatal outcome. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it is, but I think it is really interesting if we could agree on some things that could make it harder to obtain nitrous oxide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160721	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160725	Thank you. Thank you, too, for recognising that this is a problem. It's a huge problem, and it can be a life-threatening problem. But all the more importantly, I think it is also that we are discussing what we can do to at least stop young people. Well, I don't know if the kids smoke and drink as well, but they use these bullets. Sometimes they just lie on the street all by themselves. I think it is a problem that it is so easily accessible. I think it is a bigger problem if children have the opportunity to buy the products because they are not always smart enough to make the right choices. So wouldn't an age limit at least ensure that those who buy these cartridges in the future have grown up enough to think about just a little more? That is exactly the argument we use in relation to alcohol and medicines and cigarettes, namely that the older you get, the smarter you are when you have to make your choices. Could not an age limit, in fact, at least prevent children from running the risk of misusing these products?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160831	I think, as the Minister also said, by setting an age limit, you say it's okay to use these gas cartridges when you're over 18 years old, and I don't think it is. You know, when you're a kid, you don't just go in there and buy them because even if you have a bullet, you can't just abuse it. You also need something to open it with, such a cracker that allows you to make use of it. The young people are not so stupid, even though they are under 18 years of age, and we also know that they will get it anyway. You do that with cigarettes, and you do it with alcohol. Sometimes you get others to buy it for you. I think it should be better to limit sales on the Internet, because there I do not think anyone is asking about age, nor do I think there is, even if we say there should be an age limit. So as long as there's no follow-up to what's going on out there and gets caught up in it, an age limit doesn't help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211160926	I fully agree that limiting how many bullets you can buy is a good help. But it is also helpful to those who have to sell the products that do not see whether the products are for abuse or whether they are for whipped cream that they can then at least rely on an age limit which does not exist today. In addition to that, however, I would like to know whether the proposal by Mrs Stine Brix to perhaps try to consider taking a health policy debate on how to tackle this seemingly very big problem could be something that the rapporteur would also be involved in taking the initiative on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161003	Compared to this, whether you can buy it, we as health rapporteurs have been standing here many times and talking about some who want to ban selling and that it has to be hidden away, and I do not know what, because studies have been carried out that show that children under 18 years of age can easily enter all shops and buy cigarettes. So I do not think it will help, but I would like to talk about it in the context of health policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I hear there's a conference going on down there that's not so good, because there's a lot of noise in this Chamber. But now I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161045	Thank you for the floor. I stand for our usual rapporteur in this area, Torsten Schack Pedersen. He had to go to another meeting. First of all, thank you to the SF for addressing this problem. The proposal here today requires the government to introduce an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide. The aim is to prevent young people from using the cartridges as a drug, and it is hard to disagree with the intention of the motion for a resolution. Neither are we in the Left. The intention is to intervene against the use of nitrous oxide as a substance of intoxication, and we certainly share that desire from the Left. It's dangerous to use nitrous oxide as a drug. In the Left, we work every day to ensure our young people the best rights and opportunities to have a good and safe youth. However, we do not believe that an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide will solve the problem of the illegal sale of nitrous oxide. On the contrary, and there are several reasons for this. First of all, I would like to point out that it is already prohibited at this stage to sell nitrous oxide produced for industrial purposes if it is sold for intoxication, as it is called. To set an age limit to sell nitrous oxide to young people under the age of 18, we think we can send an unfortunate signal that if you are over 18, it is quite fine to consume nitrous oxide. And that is not the intention of the proposers either. However, we must do something, we fully agree with the SF in this, and in the Left we note with satisfaction that the Minister for Industry has indicated that control in this area must be strengthened. With a tripling of efforts against illegal sales over the Internet, more websites will be found where illegal sales take place and it will hopefully close the market to online sales of nitrous oxide for intoxicating purposes. A strengthened control in bars, kiosks and the like is also expected to have a positive effect. Finally, with the proposal on quantity limitation, we will make enforcement of the ban on the sale of intoxicants easier and more effective. In the Left, as I said, we share the concern that young people, regardless of age, are abusing nitrous oxide produced for industrial use as a drug. That is why something must be done and we believe that we must do the right thing. And a ban on sales to young people under 18 would, unfortunately, not be a good idea. On the contrary, it will send a signal that it is okay if you are over 18 years old. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161330	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161334	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur stand in this matter. So I just have a short question. The rapporteur of the Left says the same thing as the Minister has also said in the past and, as I also listened to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party say, that a ban on buying the products before the age of 18 will simply signal that it is all right to buy the products for abuse. But do we not agree that as long as it is still illegal to sell the product for intoxication, it will continue to be banned, but that a signal is sent only to those who sell the products that they should not sell it to young people under the age of 18, because it has apparently become modern to abuse it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161420-2	Yes, there is no doubt that the legal position is, of course, that as soon as it is sold for intoxication, it is illegal regardless of age. And then we can discuss from here to Christmas Eve what signal such a law will send and who the signal will go out to. I have no doubt that the proposers may be right about what is being said. I think that the signal will go out to both parties, both to the buyer and seller and all sorts of others involved in such a thing. If there is an 18-year limit, the signal will probably be that from 19 years it is quite okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161454-2	But everything else equal is still forbidden to sell it to drunkenness, whether you are over 18 years of age or under 18 years of age. However, the proposal is also about protecting young people under the age of 18 who may not be wise enough to understand the consequences of using the substance, which could cause nerve damage and, at worst, death.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161520	I certainly do not disagree with that, but it does not alter the argument I have already put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161528	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next is Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161535	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for putting forward the proposal here to introduce an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide. Several rapporteurs before me have said that we are seeing an increasing tendency for laughter gas to be abused into intoxication, and that is a very dangerous trend, because when you abuse laughter gas, it can also have serious consequences. You can get oxygen deficiency and, in the worst cases, you can get suffocated and die of abuse. We have requested joint discussions from the Enhedslisten. I myself have raised it with the Minister for Health at some of the joint meetings we have over there, so that we could look at how we could act wisely against this increasing abuse of nitrous oxide. Nothing has happened, and that is why I think it is commendable that the SF is now putting forward a proposal so that we can have the discussion here in Parliament. This has also meant that we have had a number of proposals on the table from people who have asked questions, and the Minister has also put forward some proposals on how to try to meet this challenge. Everything's really good. I miss the fact that we are getting a little more systematic about it, but apparently the government does not want that, and I think that is a shame. I have also noticed, like the SF rapporteur, that there is such an argument that goes back to some of those who do not want to support the proposal, namely that it should be a signal that it is okay to abuse this product when you are over 18 years of age. I simply do not understand the argument. I think it's invented for the occasion. Everyone has also said that there are worthy objectives of nitrous oxide, for example. if you're gonna make whipped cream. What we are saying is that we have to be 18 years old to be able to buy nitrous oxide for, because we know that it can also be abused for something else. So I think it would be quite sensible to introduce such an age limit. I have a slight reservation, and I really think it is just a question of how we formulate ourselves. But for me, it is quite essential that what is banned is to sell nitrous oxide to children and young people under the age of 18, not to buy nitrous oxide when you are under the age of 18. This is a way of regulating how we have age limits in the case of alcohol and tobacco, that is to say, whoever is responsible in this context is the person who sells and earns the money from the sale, not the child or the young person who buys. And I actually think that is what is meant, but that is not actually how it is formulated here in the proposal. So with that clarification, I would like to say that we can support the proposal. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that such a proposal has been followed up by a check which would make it possible for you to be taken if you break such a ban, just as there should be sanctions that have a deterrent effect. It should of course be a matter of course, but it must also be said that we have some experience when it comes, for example. the sale of tobacco and alcohol to children and young people under the age of 18, with the fact that the controls and sanctions that have been imposed have been under all criticism, and thus the ban has had a very poor effect. So it is, of course, quite essential that such a ban has been followed up by those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161925	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211161932	Thank you. This is a rather special proposal in the sense that an age limit will be set for something which is already illegal, i.e. to acquire nitrous oxide for an intoxicating purpose. But my impression is that it is clearly a problem with the use of nitrous oxide by young people. In Copenhagen you can see these rounds lying around on the streets, which is probably not due to a massive boom in the desire to make cake. So it's very relevant to look at this problem. I have a fairly pragmatic relationship with what to do about it. If you want to introduce an age limit, you just have to be very aware that it is really troublesome for the shops. Some cases may of course be important enough to introduce more trouble, but when, at the same time, the assessment by the Ministry is that it will not have a limiting effect, I do not think it is worth the trouble. In addition, I also think it is important for young people to learn to relate to all the products and temptations and advertisements and offers that they are constantly exposed to. We cannot and must not prohibit or regulate anything that may be dangerous. How will young people ever learn to become responsible adults if they do not learn to take responsibility as young people? Moreover, we must be much better able to talk to whether there are actually a great many sensible young people who can and will take personal responsibility. Furthermore, it is not the children of the state, but the children of the parents, and these things are something that parents and young people must talk about. With this in mind, however, it may make sense to impose a limit on the quantity that can be bought and to strengthen the control of what is already banned today, i.e. to sell nitrous oxide for intoxication. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the government's action in this area, but not an age limit and therefore not this resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162152	Thank you. There are questions from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162156	Just for the sake of good order, I would like to say that I share the rapporteur's view that it is also important to learn to commit oneself in society, but precisely in relation to this very major abuse, which I can also hear the rapporteur recognise, is it not a little bit like saying that what you do not die of will make you strong if you do not want to try to regulate a seemingly exploding abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162226	It is just that there are actually a lot of products. It is not just this, as the rapporteur says, that can be used incorrectly and that can therefore be dangerous, and we cannot regulate all products that can be used incorrectly. A few months ago it was the laxative that some used to inject into the muscles to make big muscles, and then you would go in and ban it or regulate it and make age restrictions on it, and that is how we can go on. There are oceans of products that can be used incorrectly, which is why it is extremely important for young people to learn to relate to these things and behave sensibly. They will do better if we talk to them and if we let civil society, including parents, take their role in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162317	Nevertheless, we are talking about children who have very, very easy access to this product, that is, it can be bought in almost any kiosk or hardware store, and it is actually very normal for children to try out limits, we all know that. That is why it is also a problem when you have such easy access to the product as you have here. So wouldn't it make sense to tell the hardware storers who, by the way, can't figure out if it's for one thing or another that we give them the tool in their hand that they could say that you have to be 18 years old before you have to buy it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162354	I do not think that this can be done for all the reasons that I have just said. But I think it makes sense to limit the quantity that young people can buy, because it is perfectly obvious that if you go in and buy a huge stack of cartridges, it is probably not to make whipped cream. So I think it's fine that you go in and make a limit on the quantity you can buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162418	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162426	Thank you. Some of the headlines we've seen this year alone have read: "Hospital in rebellion: That's why you can die of laughter gas." Another headline reads: "Despite warnings for years, young people's use of nitrous oxide continues. " And a third one says: "The neighborhoods float with laughter gas cartridges... cake tools used for dangerous rushes. When inhaling from nitrous oxide cartridges, there is a risk of acute oxygen deficiency which can, at worst, result in death. It is also possible to break down the protective fatty membrane around the nerve pathways, which weakens the signals that the brain sends out to the muscles via the spinal cord. It can lead to paralysis and emotional disturbances. So it's extremely dangerous to use nitrous oxide cartridges for a rush. When laughter gas is used in the dentist or hospital as an anesthetic, it is mixed with oxygen, and it is not when used as a drug. In the past, only laughter gas cartridges could be purchased in kitchen shops and online, but now there are also regular kiosks that have begun to sell them. TV 2/Lorry highlighted the issue in September this year. They sent two young people on the street to buy laughter gas, and in 3 hours one 16-year-old high school student bought a total of nine kiosks at Frederiksberg, Amager, Nørrebro, in Valby and Gentofte. A young 20 - year - old man told B.T. in June of this year: I think I will first stop if I have a bad experience or see someone else have a bad experience. In the alternative, we are therefore in favour of the proposal to set an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide, but in fact we do not believe that the proposal goes far enough. I could also understand from the Minister that there were several proposals, and we are positive about that. Because we would like it to be specialized, for example. We have seen, for example, that there is a limitation on how much must be bought at a time, and we have seen it with, for example, hardware dealers who are allowed to sell nitrous oxide. painkiller over-the-counter medicine, as the Minister also mentioned. We also believe that monitoring of nitrous oxide should be stepped up when it is sold in kiosks, as well as the sale of cigarettes and so on. I would also like to mention that we are sceptical about whether a ban alone is the right way to go, because bans can rarely stand alone in response to complex issues. Banning is also a form of symptom treatment; here we see a symptom of a problem that is about what it is actually that drives young people to use drugs like nitrous oxide. The answer to this problem will require preventive action and curiosity about what drives young people to use these drugs. For example, it hangs. along with the high degree of distrust we see among many young people? When we want to support the proposal, it is because, for example, we are going to support it. believes it is grotesque that laughter gas is sold in kiosks to very young people. When laughter gas is completely freely available, it can send a signal to young people that it is totally acceptable and safe to buy it. The use of nitrous oxide as a drug is far from safe, as has already been said, and therefore we are positive about B 17. We are also in favour of the proposals mentioned by the Minister. I would also like to thank the SF for making the proposal. The previous rapporteur said that the proposal would mean a great deal of trouble for the shops, but as a mother of two boys, I would also say that I do not really care about that. I hope there will be as much trouble as possible, because young people should not just be able to go and buy laughter gas, which is to be used for a different purpose than the original one, and of course it should be when a 16-year-old goes and buys whole boxes of laughter gas cartridges. We are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162827	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Erik Lund as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211162842	Thank you so much. I'm used to the SF coming before me, but they don't today, no, that's right. Laughter gas used as a drug, we all know we're both harmful and illegal. I am also quite sure that we agree that we must do everything we can to prevent laughter gas from being sold for abusive purposes for all, regardless of age. That is why we on the Conservative side are very pleased that the SF, with their resolution, is having a debate on the purchase of nitrous oxide and that we must try in every way to prevent young people from using nitrous oxide for abuse purposes. In the same way as several other rapporteurs have said, we are also afraid that an age limit of 18 years for the purchase of nitrous oxide can send the wrong signal, and we stand by that. Today, it is illegal to buy nitrous oxide for use for any purpose, regardless of age, and we must, of course, maintain that. Conservatives then believe that there are other measures to limit the sale of nitrous oxide for misuse purposes that may be more appropriate. The Minister has mentioned several of them. It may be the introduction of quantity limits for the purchase of nitrous oxide. We have just had good experience of quantity restrictions elsewhere, for example, as some have mentioned, with painkillers, where since 2013 it has only been possible to buy packs of 20 pieces or less. However, a limit on quantity does not do so alone. That is why we also welcome the fact that the Minister will strengthen control over the sale of nitrous oxide on the Internet, and we understand that the government also wants to strengthen screening of the Internet around ads for the sale of nitrous oxide. But they will also focus on preventing young people from using nitrous oxide as a drug. Conservatives look forward to an overall proposal from the Minister and therefore cannot support the motion for a resolution from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211163035	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211163043	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the good reception of the proposal and, in particular, thank you for recognising this very serious problem. Of course, I would particularly like to thank the Social Democrats and the Radicals and the Alternatives and the Enhedslist for also wanting to support an age limit which, I believe, makes very good sense. At least as a society, we have a responsibility to respond to an increasing abuse of nitrous oxide among Danish young people. This is a major problem, and fortunately I have also heard all the rapporteurs and the Minister recognise this from the platform. We can't just ignore that. As already mentioned, the consumption of the gas can lead to chronic nerve damage in young people and, worse still, death, because this gas is without oxygen. So there is a risk of death from acute oxygen deficiency. It would simply be a disaster on the day it happened and we had not at least tried to prevent it. Today it is allowed to buy nitrous oxide in shops. It's allowed for stores to sell laughter gas to everyone, regardless of their age, unless the seller is aware that the buyer is going to abuse this laughter gas. It has also become very clear, but it is simply not good enough, because it does not prevent it from being sold. I admit that it may be difficult for the individual seller to assess when to abuse and when it is intended for what it is intended for whipped cream and other things, as has already been said. I think it would make sense if it were the case that we got this age limit of 18 years. I think it is our duty to take care of young people and ensure a good start to life without this big abuse. I think it is important that we take note of the examples that I also heard that Mrs Pernille Schnoor mentioned in her rapporteur's speech that it is so easy to buy these products. Without problems, young people, even in 16 years of age, can just go in and buy x number of cartridges. No questions are asked about what they are meant for. So I am sorry that the government does not want to stop sales to at least the young, so that we could at least stop sales to young people under 18 years of age. And I'm not actually buying the argument that you then legalize that you can use the drug for abuse when you're over 18. It's still forbidden. But I think we have a special responsibility to say to children and young people who aren't always so good at remembering to turn on the brain before they start trying different things because this just doesn't work. And that can easily be prevented by telling the retail trade that these products are not sold to young people under the age of 18, and that is the end. However, I am also listening, on the other hand, to the fact that the Minister has taken the initiative on other solutions, and I would also like to say thank you for that, because little is right as well. Quantity limitation is an option in which I can easily see an idea. I think it is very wise to give the Danish Security Authority some increased possibilities for screening, among other things. the sales made via the Internet and also by physical sales. I am also listening to the fact that a majority of the rapporteurs think it would be a very good idea to also discuss health policy on how to tackle the growing problem. I think it's been surprising to see how many of these rounds you encounter on your way when you walk on the streets and walk all over the country. I have noted that a great many others have experienced the same and have become aware that these cartridges are simply being found everywhere, and I find it deeply, deeply worrying that consumption is increasing. That is why I also think that we should do something. I hope that at some point there can also be a majority to make an age limitation. However, I also look forward to seeing the proposals put into effect, as the Minister for Industry mentioned in his discussion of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211163457	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211163525	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211163533	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution to transfer the authority's responsibility for fire safety in buildings to the municipal tools. This gives us an opportunity to talk about an important subject. I agree that fire safety should be taken very seriously, but I do not think there is any need to change the fact that it is the municipalities which, as a building authority, are responsible for the construction process. The government cannot therefore support the proposal. In the motion for a resolution, Dansk Folkeparti refers to the fire at the village center Farsøhthus. The fire is mentioned as a concrete example of why emergency services should be given authority responsibility for fire safety in buildings. I should therefore like to mention in this connection that, in the follow-up to the fire, it has been found that one of the essential shortcomings in the fire safety of care centres was that a sprinkler system was not installed. It was otherwise a requirement under the building regulations, also when the care centre was granted a building permit by a renovation in 1997. Although it was part of the municipality's construction proceedings that the requirement for sprinkler facilities was waived, the derogation was granted on the basis of a specific assessment made to the local preparedness thus involved in the case in question. Therefore, the fire at Farsøhthus does not, in my opinion, give rise to the transfer of authority responsibility for fire safety in buildings to the emergency services. In this connection, I would like to point out that the issue of the possibility for municipalities to reserve powers for preparedness was discussed only when the building law was amended in May of this year. The draft law was adopted unanimously, and then the preparedness can only be given the power to decide on illegal fire conditions if there is an emergency situation where there is a specific risk of personal injury and where the municipality itself cannot decide within a reasonable period of time. In the discussions on the proposal for a directive in the spring, no further powers were raised in the field of fire-handling. The fire at the village center Farsøhthus has given an opportunity to look at the general fire safety in the nursing homes around the country. As I also said at the conciliation meeting on 11 September this year on this subject, it is quite unacceptable if the fire safety of the building is not in order, not least when people live in buildings that cannot bring themselves to safety. I have therefore asked the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority to conduct a study on fire safety in Danish nursing homes and similar buildings. The study is under way and the municipalities have been asked to make contributions to the survey in December so that the study can be completed as soon as possible. I will present the results as soon as they are available. Until we have had the opportunity to look at the results of the study, I do not think there is any basis for a concrete position on amendments to the rules in the field of fire. In addition to the fire at Farsøhthus, DF also mentions in the motion for a resolution a concern that the building authority does not include the specialist knowledge of the emergency services in matters of fire safety when the municipality deals with an application for a building permit. I do not share that concern. As the rules are today, it follows from the Building Act that the overall responsibility of the authority is with the municipal council. It is therefore the municipality that can grant building permits and exemptions. In the course of the proceedings, the municipality has to decide on a number of matters, including both the location and use of the building, compliance with the fire and construction requirements of the building regulations and compliance with requirements laid down in other legislation. The fact that responsibility as a building authority is collected from the municipality helps to ensure that citizens and companies should, as a starting point, contact only one authority when applying for a building permit. In the handling of construction cases, the municipality's case officers may need to include specialist knowledge. It may be from other departments in the municipality or from outside experts. There is an opportunity for that today. The municipality may involve the local preparedness and the knowledge of the preparedness if the municipality considers that it is needed. It is my clear expectation and my impression that the municipalities draw on the knowledge held by the municipality's own preparedness if the municipality considers that it is needed before taking a comprehensive decision on the building permit. Following this, I would like to mention that the amendment of the building regulations in 2018 introduced a certification scheme for documentation of fire and construction conditions, which is now being implemented. The certification scheme is intended to replace the technical construction treatment of fire and construction conditions, which are now being carried out by the municipalities. The purpose of the certification scheme is to make it easier and cheaper to build, inter alia, by: to create more equal conditions across municipal boundaries. At the same time, in order to ensure that fire safety is also in order, there are experience and competence requirements for certified fire counsellors who are to be connected to construction projects under the scheme. It will continue to be the municipality which is the building authority and which will, for example, have to take decisions in derogation cases. In this context, there is no change in the fact that the municipality can involve the local emergency knowledge if the municipality needs it. It is my expectation that the municipalities will live up to their responsibilities and ensure that fire safety is in order when they issue building permits. As far as liability is concerned, I would also note that it is a fundamental rule of the building law that it is the owner of a building that has overall responsibility for the legality of the building at all times. This responsibility follows quite independently of who has the authority for the construction process, and the proposed change will therefore not change the responsibility of the owner to ensure that the building complies with the fire requirements at all times. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the proposal does not make the process of construction more flexible, rather, on the contrary. Today, both private and public builders are waiting far too long to obtain a building permit, and I see that the implementation of the resolution could potentially increase the waiting time further. The tools will be included as an additional link if they are to assess the fire requirements, while the rest of the construction process and the final decision will continue to be made by the municipality. It is therefore not appropriate to implement rules which would complicate the already long process of applying for a building permit. I would like to conclude by pointing out that there should be no doubt that I look very seriously at fire safety. Building must therefore be healthy, safe and safe to travel in for all citizens. Therefore, I have followed up the fire at Farsøhthus with a study of fire safety in Danish nursing homes, and I will present the results as soon as they are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164248	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164251	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for this very detailed statement. After all, the minister tells us very clearly what you can and must do and goes back to Farsøhthus and says that there was a decision made by the local emergency services. However, the Minister agrees with me that there have been enormous changes since 1997 because it is from 1997 that this derogation has been granted, both in terms of the fact that the preparedness has come together in a number of municipal technical tools and that, of course, there has also been a municipal reform since then that has increased the municipalities. What I would then like to ask the Minister is that the Minister often uses the floor as to what they are doing. Now that the preparations are clearly reporting to the Minister, because the Minister has received a request from the administrators that they do not feel used to the extent that they would like to feel used, is it not something the Minister is looking at seriously and thinking that perhaps there is something here that should be encouraged the municipalities to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164401	I have, of course, started this very extensive study, where I have written to all municipalities that they should check whether they have granted exemptions from the rules of the building regulations on fire safety. We can, of course, do so if we have demonstrated that fire safety has been provided in a different and equally satisfactory way than that which is exactly in the fire code. They're gonna have to find that. Have they granted exemptions and on what basis? Once I've got all the material in, and I get it during this Christmas month, I'll be able to see if the reasons given for granting a derogation seem to be good enough. And if they're not good enough, because I think this fire at Farsøhthus suggested that, at least in the specific case, I'll call meetings, and then we'll all have to talk about what we can do about that things aren't going on in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164500	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister has launched this study and I am also looking forward to being called to a meeting on what we can do in the future. But one of the concerns that we in the Danish People's Party have at least also is that when it is the municipality itself that has to grant an exemption, and sometimes and most often the municipality has an expense, if not dispensations are granted in relation to nursing homes, and we talk about citizens that the municipality has to deal with, then it will be the case that the new units under the Danish tools are such legally their own entity, and there we think that there should be such an arm's length principle in relation to having to approve oneself when it also has financial consequences. Is this something that the Minister also has in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164548	Well, of course you could think about that. If the study now shows that in several municipalities there has been a derogation for own buildings in relation to complying with the fire rules, and if we consider that the way to get rid of this is to say that every time the municipality has to approve its own buildings, then not only can it check with their preparedness. You could think about that. But the investigation has to show if we have a problem. And it is true that if we have a problem, it was one of the solutions that could be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164625	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164628	Thank you and also thank you for your statement. It sounds to the Minister as if everything is good when the Danish Parliament has adopted L 101 and there are no more problems, and therefore there is no need for this discussion. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is incredibly important to have such a discussion as this one, because over the last few years there have been between 60 and 100 fire deaths every year, and often older citizens with low mobility are burning in, and therefore it is reasonable to raise the demand for it here with regard to fire safety. That is why we have to ask how we can reduce all the accidents that I think the Minister mentioned a little in his statement. In all other contexts, e.g. If there are many people who die in a traffic crossing or something, you would start to regulate it at once, but you do not do so here. It is both prevention and it is other things that can be done. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will shake hands with the fact that there are some changes to be made to this and, if there are too many derogations, perhaps also give hands on raising the standard so that we have uniform standards throughout the country. It is just a question of whether the Minister will take care of it, now that the resort area is with the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164745	At least I will. If the study shows that too many exemptions have been granted, then it must be handled and it must be handled in such a way that it is stopped and the exemptions that may have been granted too much must be rolled back and conditions must be legalised out there. Farsøhthus was an example where they say: We have ensured fire safety in other ways than by creating sprinkler systems, and the other way is that we have a fire station nearby. At first glance, I think that is a really, really bad reason for granting a derogation, and if there are more such examples out there, then we should have done something serious about it. So I fully agree with that. As far as the many elderly people who die in connection with fire are concerned, I believe that most people die in their own homes and, fortunately, there are not very many fires in public care centres. We cannot, without considerable costs for both young and old and middle-aged people, demand that there be sprinkler systems in, for example. own home, but I think we can, when we're dealing with a nursing home, and we've done that. This isn't wild west. We have a building code that requires that you have sprinkler systems at care centres if it is otherwise built or renovated at some point after this part of the building code has entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164906	Therefore, I would also like to ask whether the Minister recognises that the country's tools have an expertise in this area, which is very important to use when we look at it here, because they have experience both with fires that may have arisen at home in the resident's own apartment or in a nursing home, or where it may now be • and can include the things in the work that lies here. Because I think it's a lot about prevention to make sure these things don't happen. And so it may be that there is a need to increase the standard where it is needed. I have made proposals in the past on fire alarms in all elderly homes, because this will also help to ensure that people get out so that they do not burn in. It could also be an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211164953	At care centres there is also a requirement for fire alarms to be installed. So it's nothing new either. In other words, the building regulations impose the requirements necessary to prevent people from dying in fires, just the fact that there is a sprinkler system, because it turns off a fire quite quickly. So the problem here is not the rules, because they are good, but the problem is that there seems to be a municipality that has granted a derogation in a renovation of a care centre which I find difficult to see to be justified by the fact that there was a fire station nearby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165029	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165041	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this discussion, and also thank Danske Bekøler, who are perhaps the real copyright owners of this, which is based on this tragic incident at Farsøhthus in Allingåbro on Djursland. This is, as I mentioned earlier in my brief comment to the Minister, too many people who are dying in Denmark, and it has been for too many years. So the discussion we have about this is welcome in the Social Democratic Party. The question is, what can we do about it? It is too late to do anything about it once the fire has been there, which is why it is very much about prevention. Of course, this is also about legislation and how we deal with this. But in the social democracy we are not so much concerned with the process and where things are best solved, but in what we are doing exactly in relation to this. I think there has been too much zigzag course among changing governments in this field. In 2004, we collected everything from the Secretary of Defense, because now we had to have total defence. Then there were municipal reforms, and there were changes in preparedness, and then there have been moves back and forth because there was no agreement on the rules for high stocks, and then this matter has ended up with the current minister. It can be very good indeed. Now we stand here a number of defence rapporteurs and we have to learn about this, and we are happy to do so, because we are concerned about the same thing. We have also just made a defence settlement where we agree that we need to look at the resilience of the preparedness. This is also something that will run parallel to this, because we want a proper response to the public's needs, so that, if there is a fire, we can fight the fire in the best way possible. So I can reveal the public secret that the part of DF's proposal, which is about moving it from one end of City Hall to the other, maybe we don't care very much. We would rather see some concrete results, and that is why we will abstain from voting on the proposal or saying yes to it or voting yellow. But I think it might be an idea, if we could agree on this during the committee work, to make a report that has the same legal effect as a motion for a resolution and to say what it is necessary in this area to ensure that the security of our older fellow citizens is better than it is today. I am very excited to see the Minister's list of what has been granted of exemptions and so on. That is why I would like to call on the Minister to say 'yes' right now that we will have a technical review when that report is there and that the Minister invites all parties of the Folketing to negotiations. Then we'll know a little bit about what this looks like. Fortunately, there are many people who talk to each other on our preparations, and I have talked to the director of the Capital's tool on how to adapt and do these things because, as the Minister said, we have new and old rules and so on. It might well be that we should have a single set of rules, which is also a clear signal that the municipalities should be up to their own standards in relation to the housing they make available to their older citizens. It's about getting out and looking at some of these things, looking at new and old nursing homes and how to do it. I know that they would like to present to us something they call mobile sprinkler systems something that can be easily and easily installed in an apartment and that may save a human life for a small amount of money. These are things that I think we should look at quite practically in the future committee work. So it is good that we get to talk about it and see what we do about it, because there will also be a little missing. What's with the economy in this? It's not very well elucidated. We also lack a number of consultation answers. We usually have that for billing so we don't know exactly where KL stands and where others stand. We know what Danish tools mean, and that's fine. But I think we can do a little better in the committee work, and we can also do it, that we encourage the players who are, both Danske Bekøler and others, to get into the deputies and tell us what it is you want this to look like. Because if there's something that's very close to our hearts, it's that security for older citizens and that fire safety at all. If it requires the municipalities to delete their exemptions, if they have any • how many they have and what it costs of crowns • then we must find out, because it is so important that we send out the signal that our citizens must be able to stay safely. If there's a fire, we can fight it, but we'd better avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165536	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165540	Thank you. After all, this was an extremely good rapporteur's speech, which we in the Danish People's Party will at least sign for and want to continue working on. I mean, we're not quite so concerned about how to cut this cake, if you can put it that way. We are more concerned about the fact that we have some elderly care centres that may have too many exceptions. We would like to look at this in the study, as the Minister also said. I hope that we will all be invited for a technical review. And then it is quite clear that we must have all those actors on the field who can qualify this and do much better. Because in the Danish People's Party we are very concerned, because we have some care centres where there may be 35-40 residents, but where there are only one or two night shifts, and once the fire breaks out, we have a big problem in having these citizens evacuated. So, all we can do together to shed light on that, of course, we sign for it. So it's not really a question here and now. It is simply a receipt to say that we are very happy that you are so positive about it, so that we may together get this qualified much better. For what we all basically want is to prevent such an accident from happening again. So we thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165704	Yeah, how's the cake gonna be cut? That's what we're gonna try to figure out. In fact, I believe that we must also involve the preparedness. They know a lot about how to fight fires and what conditions should be. After all, there is a difference in whether there is a fire on a summer day, when all the doors and windows are open, or whether it is in the winter, where you sit in and shove yourself to keep warm, because there the fire cannot really spread. So there's a lot of things to do in connection with this story, or whatever it's going to be called, so we're all gonna learn more about how we handle this. Prevention is also at my heart, but it is clear that, in cases where fire breaks out, it must be put out. That is why building treatment, which now lies with the Minister for Housing, also plays a part, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165757	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211165812	Thank you for that, President. In the Left, we are completely in line with the Danish People's Party in this matter. Fire safety must always be taken very seriously, but we quite disagree that the municipalities should be deprived of this responsibility. Of course, it is always the owner of the building who is responsible for a building being legal and that security is in order. After all, a municipality is building authority, that is to say, it is here that it is responsible for the rules being followed, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations on fire safety. It is proposed to change this so that there must be both a fire department and a construction authority in the future and thus also an opportunity for things to fall between two chairs. I understand when I read out in this area that the changes in this area were considered back in May. What's that 6 months ago? In September the Minister was in consultation, and here the Minister announced that a fire safety study had been started in Danish nursing homes and similar buildings. That was two months ago. The Minister has just informed us that the municipalities have been asked to make contributions here in December to become wiser in this area, and that is this month. Then we are actually back on the possibility that things can fall between two chairs. The Minister has responded to an expectation of examining the state of affairs in a conciliation meeting in September. The results are ticking into this month, and now the Danish People's Party wants us to legislate without being to the bottom and knowing the actual state of things. In the Left, we take fire safety very seriously and we do not want things to fall between two chairs. That is why we are recommending here today that until we have had time to look at the study undertaken by the Minister, we should like to wait for further initiatives. The Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170011	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170019	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is true that the Minister has said that there is a study, and that is what we are signing for, and it must, of course, be part of the future work. But now the rapporteur said that it is always the owner of a building that the building is in order. It is also quite true, but it is also the municipality's responsibility that the citizens for whom the municipality is responsible live in buildings that are then in order. Sometimes economy plays a part. In this regard, it should be noted that the contested tax rulings do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, since they do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Does the rapporteur recognise that it can be an advantage that it is not always the one who has to pay the bill that can grant exemptions to these properties and that the municipality has a huge responsibility because it is the citizens of the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170131	Well, basically, it's a hypothetical question. That is something the rapporteur assumes. I assume that when you are responsible both for buildings and for people living in these buildings, and that is so clearly described, you are, of course, fulfilling that responsibility. After all, no one is preventing a municipality from contacting the emergency services today to learn more about how to do things. In fact, I think that the Minister has explained the state of affairs and what the Minister intends to do. After all, in his speech from up here, the Minister has also invited us to cooperate, so I think we have actually come a very long way. What I am just worried about is that we are muddling things because we all want to do things in the best way possible, so that we send out ambiguous signals or that we are helping to tighten things up that could be so good. I therefore think that we should follow the Minister's way of doing this task and wait until the Minister's investigation is ready so that we know what we are talking about. When we know the state of things, we'll take it from there. And there the Minister has promised that he will sit at the end of the table and ensure that we achieve the best possible result, and in fact I have great faith in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170242	Well, in the Danish People's Party, we also have faith that the minister will invite us to work together when he has stood here and said so, of course we do. I should also like to ask the rapporteur: if we now have such a request from the municipal authorities that they would like to call on the municipalities to use them more • that is, they may feel that the municipalities do not use them to the extent that they think they should be used with the expertise they have • the rapporteur will also look at what the Minister also said, namely that if you see that some derogations have been granted backwards, which may not be entirely in line with what we would like, then you might introduce a • should be introduced when derogations are to be granted to buildings where the municipality is responsible for the citizens who live there in future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170334	Well, I have every confidence that when a municipality has a job, it solves it in the best possible way, don't you think? If you are in doubt as a municipality and thus as a construction authority about how this task is to be solved in purely fire technology, then I have a clear expectation that you will go to the experts and that is the preparedness and ask for advice and guidance. I take all inquiries I get from the Danish preparedness, very seriously and chew things through carefully. But I think that, before we start to come up with solutions, we should know the state of affairs, and I would therefore like to await the investigation for which the Minister has made himself responsible. Then I think we will be much, much wiser, and then we can, in memory, because I am also listening to that, find the best solutions so that the Danes can be even more confident.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170420	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170423	Now the rapporteur of the Left says, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, that he would like to be wiser. I shall not comment on what it is like in general. But he is asking for factual facts, and there I would like to explain and I know that Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen knows that too many people are dying in Denmark. So that is certainly a starting point. Now the rapporteur of the large governing party must see that you can actually be surrounded by a majority here that imposes something on the government. That is why I think the Left should be a little more accommodating to say that now, there is this proposal, but there is a need to look at fire safety, because we have seen too many accidents, we have seen too many fires, and then give a commitment that in the committee work that is ahead we might think of something else, perhaps qualify it here, perhaps make a report that I have talked about. Because we have far too many who fire door in Denmark. I think that if you compare it with other countries, unfortunately we have a boring record here in Denmark. So it's not like we know nothing about this subject. It is perhaps just as much about us doing something about it and then what we are discussing here, namely where it is, the decisions and the authority should lie. However, a commitment by the rapporteur of the Left to do something about it could perhaps be made here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170548	I am sure that no matter how much I read things, I will never reach the level of my dear colleague from the Social Democratic Party in this area. However, this should not prevent me from having very sharp and very clear opinions. I think we all have a great interest in the best way we can do this, because that is what the citizens of Denmark expect us to do. It is that we are striking a blow to fire safety. That is why I also think it is extremely important that we have all the facts when we come up with the good solutions. Because a counter-question could be put back to the Social Democrat rapporteur: why did not the rapporteur bring back the enormous knowledge that the rapporteur possesses in this area and with which he has just struck me, back in May, when a united Parliament sat and had the opportunity to do so in a smarter way, according to the rapporteur? I think we should have all the facts on the table before we find the good solutions, and we will have that through the Minister, and I have the patience to wait for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170645	Yeah, yeah. Now it is the case that the rapporteur says a lot at times, and I did so in May when the matter was dealt with here. But different governments have decided that it should be where it is now. But what's interesting is to give a commitment to do something about this. I think, too, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen mentioned that it was a case that could easily fall between two chairs. Because we have been sitting in the line of defense and saying that we want to look at our preparedness, so we have a readiness to provide security for the citizens, and that is also true in this area. That is why we have made a mandate to look at whether our entire preparedness is robust enough to respond to the events that are taking place. That is why I think one might be a little accommodating about the idea of perhaps making a report, so that we have looked at it here and qualified it, perhaps combining the best of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and of the Ministry of Defence, where the preparedness belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170743	Now the rapporteur mentioned changing governments. I think that the Minister's speech has given us an outstretched arm that we have never had before. There's a lot of will in this government to do something about it. With the mandate that we have agreed on in the defence committee, there is also a great willingness to look at whether we have got things screwed up properly. We do so because we care about it because we want to achieve the best possible solutions. It's not changing governments. It's this government that's been responsible for both agreements. I do not think the rapporteur has just said that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170813	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I do not see Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to Mr Rogalla's report. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211170827	Thank you for that, President. I fully understand the desire to do something on top of this terrible accident at the care centre in Allingåbro, and I also understand the concern behind the resolution, namely to strengthen fire safety, among other things. in our foster homes. However, I doubt whether this will be achieved by transferring responsibility to the municipal tools. It's not that they can't do the job. Of course they will. On the other hand, I believe that it is very well located where it is located, namely in the municipal council, which otherwise manages the rest of the building area. It is rare for a case to be promoted by spreading connected authority tasks to several public bodies that have to write to each other; there will be more bureaucracy in the state guarantee and an extension and increase in the costs of construction. That is not our policy. The municipalities can draw at any time on the professional skills that may be available on the alert, and this has also been mentioned here from the platform. And, of course, I also think it is worth noting that we have almost just had this debate on responsibility here in the Danish Parliament. So it's kind of bad timing for a lot of reasons, as the Left has also mentioned. However, as I have said, I understand that we want to do something about fire safety; we want to do that too. And that is why I am pleased that the Minister, as we have heard, has initiated this study of the nursing homes around the country so that we know what the problem is. And then perhaps I sense a bit of mission imperialism, if you can call it that, from the point of view of preparedness. We must now always bear in mind that it is and will be a fundamental rule of the building law that it is the owner of the building who has the overall responsibility that the building is legal at all times. So the responsibility of the authority does not change that; it lies with the owner, and so it must be. And that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171051	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171055	Thanks for the speech. It was just one little thing. I think the rapporteur was told that one could not help thinking that the preparedness had some special interests or something in that direction. Villum Christensen just defines a little closer. After all, what we do not want is for a municipality to save on security, because it is the same authority that has approved it itself. In other words, if it is out there and it appears in the Minister's report, then there is a compromise. I do not know whether that is why the rapporteur called it special interests, but I see our preparedness in Denmark as being very serious and they know something about things. And that's why it's perfectly justified if you ask the preparedness in these building cases if you're going to have a nursing home remodeled, or if you're going to have to build a new one, how they feel about the project you're about to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171159	Of course, and that's what I said in my speech. Of course you can seek advice if you need advice, that is clear. And in relation to the task, I would like to say that I do not know any organisations that do not want anything more to do. So there's nothing weird about it. There is no wonder that you want to expand your task portfolio and get a firm legal basis on something. It's like having money in the bank, isn't it? Then you have security for the assignments. But for us in here, it is important that we have a sensible organisation of tasks, an effective organisation of tasks, and that is not done by spreading it to a lot of different bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171239	The rapporteur may well be right about that, but what is the problem here is that we are talking down to preparedness, and I think that is wrong. I respect the Danish preparedness and all the firefighters and the part-time firefighters and everything very much, and that is why I think that when they bring something, they do it in the same way as we do in here, namely that they do it because they really care about ensuring fire safety, among other things. the Danish nursing homes that we are now talking about here. So it doesn't have to be self-interest. It may also be because they will share that knowledge and interest with us. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171316	I'm sure everyone who has expert knowledge would like to share it with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171322	The next question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171325	Thank you. I did not intend to stand up and say anything to the rapporteur's speech, but I was also very indignant about what the rapporteur stands on the platform and says about the Danish tools, that is to say that they have some special interests, and then talk downright about it. Nor do I think that the rapporteur has explained what is meant, other than that you want something to do. I am quite convinced that when Danske Bekøler went out quite quickly after this very tragic fire we had on Djursland, it was in the best sense, in that they have some expertise they can offer, in relation to how to make sure that these care centres are set up and what kind of dispensation must be granted. We must also bear in mind that it is these terrible firemen that we are sending out once the fire starts, they are the ones who have to go in and extinguish and clean up after such a terrible tragedy as it is. So I would like the rapporteur to elaborate a little on what the rapporteur meant by this matter of having special interests and whether the rapporteur does not recognise our firefighters.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171439	As I tried to reply to before, I believe that virtually all organisations have an interest in maintaining their own existence, and if you have an area in which you can do something, you would like to expand it. There is nothing derogatory in that statement. There is always a struggle over the tasks, so our task is not to ensure that some specific ones are given the tasks, but to ensure that this is sensible. And there I think that the coordination option that lies in having it in one place, namely in the municipal council, that's what I tried to say to poor ability in my speech is the best. And then I think it is really bad timing right now to require the Minister to do something when all the balls are in the air, as Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left said.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171531	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. But I do not really think I was given an answer if the rapporteur does not believe that the approach that came from Danske Bekøler is a statement, in relation to you have some expertise you can offer, because you actually want to prevent as much out at the care centres as possible, also in relation to the fact that when things go wrong Hopefully as few times as possible it is the preparedness that has to go out and put their people in some kind of danger by going out and putting out a fire. There's always danger when you send firemen out and put out a fire. So I just want to ask whether the rapporteur does not recognise the great work that our firefighters are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171620	I recognize that, of course, 100%. And you have a formal opportunity to give instructions when you're in the field. There is no contradiction between what the rapporteur says and what I have said here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171634	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171645	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen for making this proposal. I have to admit that when I read the proposal, I thought first: I do not know anything about this. And I had to start looking into it. I would say that I am very much in favour of this proposal, because something needs to be done when we see how things stand in relation to fire safety. In fact, we are actually quite poor, I could look into, in relation to our Nordic neighbours, and then we have to do something. However, it is also important that we not only act in perfection when there is a case, but that we do it well thought out and thoroughly. So we are very much in favour of this, but do we really have a number of questions that we will be asking in committee: are the resources sufficient to carry out such a task here, whether the model is exactly the right one, or whether there are any other ways to do it? I think it is very sensible for the committee, even though investigations are under way in the Ministry, to start working on this too. I think that can easily be done in parallel without there being any problems with it. I should then like to welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten and say that they are in favour of the proposal, but also have a number of questions that they will have examined in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171804	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171807	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just want to sign and say that we're happy that you're also going to go into this future cooperation. Hopefully we can get a report and then we'll be invited to the minister. So it's just a receipt for your positive expression here. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171830	Well, fortunately that sounds like it, and I think it's a good exercise, too, that the Danish Parliament can do a good job and go to the ministry and then talk, so the Danish Parliament doesn't have to sit around and wait with its hands in its lap for them to finish in the ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211171849	Thank you. At first sight, in the Radical Left, we can see the reason why the municipal council can authorise the preparedness to carry out fire safety. However, the individual municipality can already, as has been mentioned on several occasions, include the preparedness if it considers it necessary. Furthermore, all parties were also aware of the change to the building law earlier this year, which enabled municipalities to make decisions on certain illegal matters relating to fire safety. That is why we are a little unaware of what has changed since then. There has been a tragic deathfire, but as far as I understand, the preparedness has been involved in that particular case. Could the specific fire have been avoided if the authority's responsibility had been elsewhere? If there is a real need to extend the legal basis that the municipalities already have in relation to putting decisions on the alert, then we could, to that extent, help to look at it. But should this not take place in the conciliation circle, where this was discussed very recently in connection with the adoption of the Building Law? Whatever the case, we read the proposal in such a way that DF wants to drag the same construction down over the heads of all municipalities. Maybe we're reading it wrong. But since tools as well as municipalities are not the same, we are immediately more in favour of allowing the municipalities to decide for themselves what makes the best sense locally. However, we await the debate and the answer to the questions we have raised before taking a final position. Perhaps we should wait for the results of the study that the Minister has undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172026	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172030	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen on her rapporteurship in the field of defence. I understand it's pretty new, and it's good. But regardless of the clashes about where it should be, I believe and usually know that the Radical Left is very concerned about prevention and also wholeheartedly supports preparedness. When we have this talk about an accident, even a very tragic one of the kind with three dead by fire, there may well be good reason, even if you are in favour of some building law, where there is a certification scheme and everything else, to look at the fire safety of the nursing homes and elderly homes where our older fellow citizens live. That is what the exercise is all about, and when I suggest that we might combine it with making a kind of report that has the same legal effect as a resolution, then we offer dances, and we always want to dance with the Radicals. So it's an outstretched hand where we say if we don't try to figure it out. I also believe that the Radical Left believes that too many people die from fires in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172140	Thank you. I'm glad to dance, too, so thank you for inviting me. We could certainly do that. As the rapporteur says, we are also very concerned about prevention, but, as I said, we think it is sensible to wait for the study that has been carried out and to look at what is really up and down in this. I do not know whether it can be included in a so-called report, but we are open to looking at it with the comments that have been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172202	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then we move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172212	I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution. The background is tragic with a fire in Allingåbro, and it is clear that with such tragic events one begins to consider whether something can be done differently. I understand that very well, and it has also been done here. In many cases it may be tempting to make such a structural change where the tasks of the authority are moved. It may be a good idea. I don't have the clue to say that. It may well be a good idea, and that is why I think it is right, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen said that we sit together in committee afterwards and look at how we can do this better. There is no reason to reject it as bastant as the government has done. I really think we should look at this positively and constructively without having the answers in advance. It may be more complicated than that, and we need to have more background information in order to do so. However, we have a positive approach to this bill and we would like to do something sensible in the committee afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172329	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172332	Thank you. I would like to sign the SF's rapporteur for this positive approach. I am glad that we can now sit together in committee and try to see whether we can work towards a result which might be supplemented by what the Minister can bring. I'm really, really happy about that, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172358	Yes, because it is important that we start from the problem here, instead of locking ourselves to different positions and various bureaucratic complications, because it is a problem that is there and that needs to be resolved, and it is our job to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172412	Peter Juel-Jensen, Left, who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172415	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a fine and precise speech by the rapporteur. The Minister put forward a consultation in September that he would ask the municipalities what is the practice, what has been given of derogations, and thus get an overview of the state of affairs. The municipalities will reply back in December, the Minister told me during the debate on this point. I just understood from the rapporteur that the rapporteur felt that it was important for us to sit down and make a report afterwards, but does the rapporteur not agree that we should of course have the information that the Minister has picked up from all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172500	Sure, of course. It is excellent that there are more things coming in to the Minister. I didn't imagine we'd be doing a story here tonight. We are now going to the committee work and then there will be information from the government, and we can then ask questions to the Minister. Then, at the beginning of the new year, hopefully, we can make a report. That's how I imagine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172523	I am very pleased about that, because I just understood the rapporteur so that, in the light of this debate, we should produce a report. I think it is very important that we include all the elements, and hence the Minister's study, where the Minister has been asking all the municipalities of the country, so that we have all the facts before we sit down and find something that points in the right direction. So thank you for that, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172546	Well, I don't understand this at all. There is no contradiction between the fact that you have this motion for a resolution and the fact that the Minister has various things to do. That is how you work in the Folketing. So there is no contradiction in that; so I think we should just keep working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172600	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172608	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for this very good debate and really great support to continue working on this serious issue. I would also like to thank Danske Bekøler for going out quite quickly and stating that, with their expertise, they could actually offer something to prevent such a terrible tragedy from happening again. After all, we must do what we can and take advantage of the expertise and the latest technology in preventing fires in the buildings that house our very weakest fellow citizens, that is to say our elderly citizens and disabled people living in nursing homes and settlements. It is citizens who are 100% dependent on other people's help 24 hours a day and who are unable to help themselves out of a burning building. We should remember that in these nursing homes and settlements there are 1-2 employees at night for perhaps 30-40 residents. How do two people get all these people out in case of fire? Maybe the municipality should have an evacuation team, but that's an agenda, we're going somewhere else. We have many nursing homes and settlements which, due to the time of construction, have some exemptions in relation to the lack of sprinkler systems and other things. That is why, as a society and as politicians, we are obliged to do what we can to prevent fires in our nursing homes. We do this by making use of the best expertise and specialist knowledge and the latest technology. For this reason, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the responsibility for fire safety in buildings is transferred to the municipal emergency services in practice. We should also remember that the municipal tools are separated into separate units, where they are legally independent of the individual municipality. The arm length principle is a good thing. Today, the municipality is both the municipality of payment and the one granting the derogations, and we would like to change that. But we look forward to the minister's outstretched hand, that is, that he will return when he has got all these things, and also the part that, if you now see that the exemptions are given with a little loose hand, as it can be expressed, then perhaps you could consider saying that when dispensations are to be granted, it is not just a "can" task, but a "must" task in the municipalities. However, thank you very much for the positive approach and I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172852	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172904	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211172925	Thank you. We are dealing with L 120 on the postponement of the phasing-in of the registration tax on electric cars which would otherwise have entered into force on 1 January. So a next step would have been taken in the phase-in profile of the registration tax on electric cars, which would have become somewhat more expensive for many. We ourselves proposed in May what is now a legislative proposal here, namely to postpone the next stage in the phasing-in of the registration fee, so that the tax does not increase on 1 January. We have also recently had a new legislative proposal before the House because we could see that the time was running out for a measure that we felt there was broad support for. However, it is not necessary to discuss it because the government has put it forward here. And with the bill, the government will be able to ward off the brake on the sale of electric cars which would have occurred if the tax had increased further. That is why we are also going to vote in favour of the bill. Here I could have stopped, but I still think that this discussion deserves to have a little more words on the road, because transport is one of the biggest sources of Denmark's emissions of climate gases. About a quarter of Denmark's CO2 It is no wonder that many Danes use a car and have a car. It's almost 2 million Danes who have a car. We use it when we go to work, when we go shopping, when we have to deliver the children, when we are going to visit the family at the other end of the country. And that must be possible in a way that is more climate-friendly. For a lot of people, public transport is just not an option if everyday life is to be connected and all these things have to play. There is therefore a huge potential for reducing CO2 which we will, of course, have if we have increased public transport, but also if we get a distribution of green car types in our car park. It is therefore an important priority for the Social Democrats to support the spread of climate-friendly and efficient cars, which reduce pollution, which reduce noise and reduce climate pollution. It is no use, we think, politically just to let go, even though, of course, we are also dependent on the development of technology. Unfortunately, the government has not shown itself willing to make it more attractive to buy a green car in earnest. In October, the government presented its climate and air project with a presentation from six ministers who together showed that, towards the end of the government period, the government would now really take the climate more seriously. It was also something new in relation to the experience we had back in autumn 2015, when we first negotiated these conditions for electric cars with the government, where the tax minister very clearly stated that electric cars were not the government's priority. Unfortunately, the playout was apparently not much more than hot air. It has turned out that the part that the government has actually chosen to negotiate at all, namely the part that concerns electric cars, was not as ambitious as initially assumed. The Prime Minister stood here on the platform at the opening of the Danish Parliament and proclaimed that government policy would lead to 1 million green cars by 2030. I guess there were many of us who were almost blown behind by the Prime Minister's sudden green ambitions. But it has also come to light when we wondered where the shift came from, that is to say, that one so strongly saddled over after most of everything had gone to put down the prices of ordinary petrol and diesel cars that, despite the clear announcement, there was not really much to come after. The concrete initiatives put forward by the government would only mean 1,000 more electric cars on the roads than if nothing were done. It's a joke when you compare it to the PM's speech. We have then tried, in the negotiations that have taken place, to achieve something that could be a basis for a real agreement. We haven't been able to do that. That is why a united opposition left the negotiations we have just been through. The Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and SF agreed that the agreement the government could offer was not ambitious enough. Our starting point was to make a fundamental change in car taxation, which we really wanted for a long time and which is what needs to be done. And if that is not possible, then at least a binding objective to achieve this very large number by 2030, which we must achieve if we are really to have the green car types distributed. The government was not willing to make this kind of commitment, nor was the government prepared to find funding for the further concrete initiatives now and here. We have, for example. wanted to make it more attractive for municipalities to replace the petrol hatches with green alternatives. We have wanted to make electricity for charging electric cars cheaper through continued low prices of the charging power. We also think that we should have a greener corporate car tax... if I may add a little something to this at the end. We still believe that this should be possible even if no agreement was reached. That is why we will be tabling an amendment to the draft law we are discussing here, so that, like what was actually discussed in the negotiations, there will be lower company car taxation if you choose a green car type. We would be very surprised if the government did not support it because it is actually part of the government's own initiative from October and it would be a really bad signal to the electric car industry and all the companies that are actually ready to implement it along with the employees they have who use company cars and are interested in getting an electric car, hybrid car, hydrogen car, or whatever it may be. So it is gratifying that the tax should not increase on 1 January, but we must note that the Prime Minister's speech was very talk and big words, but few money and no obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211173519	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There are no brief comments, and the next is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211173529	Thank you. Normally, when I present the Danish People's Party's point of view to a bill, I usually start by saying that it is the implementation of an agreement. Unfortunately, I cannot do that this time when the negotiations broke down on Friday and, in fact, a little surprising for my party. Because I actually thought we were incredibly close to an agreement and had actually found a good compromise with initiatives that I think we could all benefit from. After all, it was about building a bridge from the increase in the electricity car tax from 1 January, until we have the commission that the government has played out with to be set up now and which must be completed by 2020. Unfortunately, we did not get that bridge, but the problem is quite real after all, that if we do nothing, green cars will rise in tax from 1 January. It also seems to the Danish People's Party to be a bad idea, because it is quite reasonable that we ensure tranquillity around the industry until we can have this commission, which can then help us to do so on a slightly more enlightened basis, and therefore we may also be able to take a more in-depth debate on it. For my party, it is also a matter of negotiations, and so it will be when we get the commission that we need a technical change in our car charges so that they are based, for example, on. CO 2 But it must be a model that we believe can help promote environmentally friendly cars in Denmark. This is clearly a model that we have tried to achieve in these negotiations, but it has not succeeded and we will clearly lift that case again when we get the Commission's proposal by 2020. We are also glad that the government has said openly that it will also be part of the Commission's work to look at the solution plus a number of other things. Like the previous rapporteur, we would have liked to have had a change in company car taxation, but with a different model than the one proposed by the opposition and the government. Because we think you should look at a slightly larger model, where you have looked at the existing company cars and make it a greener model, by turning down the parameter where the car is taxed according to its value. Perhaps you could lower that from 25%. 20 per cent. and then correspondingly turn up the environmental supplement so that it actually becomes revenue neutral. So without actually spending money on it, we could have our company car tax, which includes some 90,000 cars, significantly greener than it is today and without it costing the state money. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen at this stage, but it is something that we will also consider proposing an amendment to this bill if we are in favour of including company car taxation. The content of this bill is more concrete, i.e. the phase-in is postponed by 1 year for electric cars and plugin hybrid cars. In addition to that, there will be a change in the base deduction for 2 years. Today, the basic allowance is 10,000 kroner. In 2019 it will be 40,000 kroner. and in 2020 at 77,500 DKK. This means in real human language for those who are going to buy a car that a car of less than DKK 400 000. will be free of charge in 2019 and 2020, and that hydrogen cars will also be completely free of charge for the next few years, and that is quite reasonable. It does not just help to ensure peace, which I think is quite positive, but it is actually also more ambitious rules than there are today, because there are not these high bottom deductions. The price for that is quite considerable. We were also told by the Socialist rapporteur, and we have also been told during the negotiations that this gives about 1,000 extra electric cars and hybrid cars together, but that it costs 410 million. kr. That is equal to a price of 410,000 kroner. per and you can almost be tempted to say a little too funny that it was just before the state had to buy these 1,000 extra electric cars and then make a lottery draw among the Danes. Because it could be that it could give a little more attention to the electric cars than there is today if, after all, you could win a good electric car. In addition to this bill, we should actually have dealt with a legislative proposal called L 116 from the opposition as a whole, which was, in fact, lower than the legislative proposal we are dealing with here because there was not this higher base deduction. So I am actually surprised because we saw the opposition leaving the negotiations when they actually had the prospect of getting an even better proposal through than what was on the table, plus that we also had in the debate and a possible text of agreement, that we could have more charging stations and that there were electric ferries; the company car tax scheme was in the agreement, there could be an impact on the work of the Commission, etc. So I really think it's too bad we threw it on the floor. I understand that it didn't all get as far as you would like to go and that is quite fair but I think we actually got a good deal of it, you might say, temporary agreement, which stretched out two years ago, and I think that really is a pity that it has fallen to the ground. In conclusion, I must say from the Danish People's Party that we support this bill and that we look forward very much to this Commission making its recommendations. In this context, I would also like to say now, as I have said, that we will later fight for a change in car taxes to be based on a technical parameter rather than today, when it is value-based. But, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174044	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174048	This issue of a more fundamental change, and to base it primarily on technical criteria and take as a starting point the climate impact of the car, are, after all, some of the ideas I think we share about where it is we would like to go. Right now, I think that we need to take account of this issue of company car taxation, because there was a reason why no agreement could be reached; the government was not prepared to do anything that was sufficiently binding. But we have actually agreed, even back in the negotiations on the energy agreement, that it was a good idea to make this greener company car tax for a period of time, and that is what I would like to ask. Because in the overall opposition to the tax minister we have volunteered to use some of the funds from the energy agreement pool for green transport to make these initiatives around green company cars. That was also one of the things they said to each other, because the negotiations were there without being able to tell the public at that time, because it took some time to organise it and it was one of the things that was actually agreed that one wanted to do. And I do not think that a confusion created by a government that was not prepared to commit itself should mean that the sensible proposal is not being implemented, and I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party comment on this, i.e. whether the Danish People's Party is also ready to use the funds from the energy conciliation which are intended for green transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174217	First of all, it is actually a bit strange that negotiations with the things that we had as part of the text of the agreement were skipped. If you had stayed there, it would have been something today, so perhaps not right in the discussion of the bill today, but then it would have been an agreement and something we had committed each other to. And I did not actually see that there was a great deal of agreement in the negotiations that we could use this pool from the energy settlement. After all, there were at least two parties who did not think it was a good idea to use it on, among others. electric cars and corporate cars because they didn't think it was part of that frame. So I don't think it's that simple. So I would also like to say that if you are going to vote for everything that was in the agreement and you are going to table amendments to it, why not just conclude the agreement? In other words, my party helped to reach the compromise, although we actually wanted a different model, which I have just spent time with now. After all, we think that there is a need for a more general shift in company car taxation and not just a two-year period for electric cars. Because we believe that we can do much more for the climate by looking at company car taxation in general. So we are happy to enter into a discussion again. But I think we should have just stayed at the table on Friday instead of now taking it in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think we'd gotten more out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174316	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174318	What I cannot really understand is that, if it is to be the case that the government in some way is so insulted that it cannot get an overly short-term and bad agreement, then some punishment must be made for those of us who want to spread the electric cars and for the market and for those companies who want to have green company cars. That is what I sense is coming up, and the government must take responsibility for that if that is what you are doing, even though you have played out yourself that you want to have this greener company car tax. But it is really only the question of the resources that can be a little decisive in the course we are going to have to adopt and whether the Danish People's Party is ready to use the funds from the energy agreement. Then other parties will have to answer for themselves. It's the Danish People's Party I'm asking about now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174407	Well, we wanted to take a look at the company car tax, and that was also implied when we made the energy agreement. But we actually wrote into the text of the agreement that it should be technology-neutral, and that is exactly the model we want. The model proposed by the Social Democratic Party is not technology-neutral, so if you read and take it very literally what the text of the agreement on the energy agreement says, it does not actually meet it. However, if we are to discuss company car taxation, we also think that we should discuss the model that the Danish People's Party wants. It could be that one way or another a compromise could be found between some thing in between. But I will not just stand here from the platform and say that I will vote for the policies of all of you, if I do not get anything in return myself, and so we had another model on the table that we think it might be sensible to look at. Well, if we're gonna have to look at these things, we're gonna have to look at both models.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174448	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174452	The fact that it is technology neutral will then knock the bottom out of the Treasury and a lot of other things. But that's not what I wanted to ask. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether he shares the vision and the plan put forward by the Prime Minister about one million electric cars by 2030 and presented by the Prime Minister from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174516	First of all, I should like to make a first comment: it does not, of course, strike the bottom out of the Treasury if you do a change in company car taxation, which is revenue-neutral. Well, it's almost in the word. You can turn up one parameter and then turn down the other so it goes straight up. So it doesn't really cost any money. So there is no gap in the Treasury by making a technology-neutral change in company car taxation. On the contrary. We fully share that we need a greener transport sector, but we do not share that we are locking ourselves onto an objective today and saying that it should be exactly 1 million and exactly 2030, and the reason why we are not doing so is that it is actually quite unwise. Because it may be that technological developments show that it may be in 2031 or in 2032, and it may also be that it was 2028, but we do not know that because it is quite difficult to predict so far into the future. But if we sit here and commit to it being 2030, and it turns out to be only 2032, then we end up spending a lot of billions on achieving the goal. And I just don't think that's a smart way to promote green development. So we fully share the view that we need a greener transport sector than we have today, and our bid is a shift in car charges to technical parameters. We can't do that now. By the way, I believe that the questioner shares the view that this could be part of the solution, but we just do not think it is a good idea for us to commit ourselves now in 2018 to the fact that it is exactly 1 million and 2030. We don't think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174629	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174631	This whole discussion about technology neutrality, I know where it comes from. You just don't get a complete electric car park out of that, but it's another discussion. If you do not set up an objective, then you have nothing to control, then you have nothing to tie each other up on, and that is what I think the rapporteur wants to nod to us in the negotiations, so that on the other side of a choice or something else we could say to each other: we do have a common ambition to get really far, whether it is 1 million electric cars or 950,000 or whatever. We could not get the DF or the governing parties to do that, and then it was actually just a continuation of the line that the governing parties and DF and some other parties have had for several years: total zigzag without any direction. That is why we wanted some kind of objective. It could also have been less than exactly what the Prime Minister said, but it could not deliver on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174732	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174734	I understand very well that you are trying to say that it is almost DF's fault that there was no agreement. We have made it clear to the government many times that they would be more than happy to negotiate with other parties without us. The whole reason why you had this problem with the stair model, where it came to rise and on 1 January became a wall that came to kill the market, is after all an agreement that Dansk Folkeparti is not in. We have made it clear to the government that they would like to resolve it with the already existing agreement. We didn't have a problem with that. It has been decided not to do so, which is why I think it is a bit wrong to say that it should be almost the fault of the Danish People's Party now, because we would not commit ourselves to an objective that is fair enough to other parties. At least we think it's wise to write it in now. By the way, I think it was Volkswagen who was out recently saying that they would stop marketing new diesel and petrol cars from 2026 and, from 2030, I do not think they will sell anyone at all. So that's how it sort of solves itself. But if Volkswagen comes and says it's 2032 instead, what are we gonna do? Yes, then we have committed ourselves to some goal by 2030 of 1 million electric cars, and we think that is just really expensive and a stupid way to regulate it. Well, there's not much difference. We share the view that we need a greener transport sector, but we just do not think it is wise to set some fixed objective right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174843	Thank you. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174846	Thank you. First of all I should like to say that I may not be able to predict the future, but I can certainly say so much that if we do not act, nothing will happen. That's how far I can predict the future. Then the rapporteur says something about two parties who were not willing to use the money from the conciliation this summer to finance electric cars. After all, I was lucky enough to sit with myself once during the debates around the table, and I did not notice two parties who said so. Can the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174929	It is now almost better for the Minister to elaborate on this when he comes to the floor, because he was the negotiating leader and he said to the two parties that they could not do more for the same reason. So it was a conclusion that the government came to. They concluded that you couldn't agree on that part. I wasn't the one who was the head of the meeting. So it is almost better to ask the government about that part, I dare say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174951	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211174958	Well, I would really like to discuss the model for company cars that Dansk Folkeparti put on the table. Because we did get some calculations during the negotiations and normally we are not standing and referring from negotiations, but I can hear the rapporteur do so, so I will also allow myself to do so and about the model stated in the note that it does not lead to a significant increase in the sale of electric cars. So will the rapporteur explain to us how the Danish People's Party model is going to help us get more electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175021	The aim for me to re-tax the company car is not to target it precisely electric cars, and that is the difference between the two models. I just want to get more climate-friendly cars out than there are today. It is no secret that today it is great Audi and Mercedes driving out there. We can swap these two parameters. Today there are 25 per cent. tax on the value of the car up to DKK 300,000, 20%. Over. If you turn it down we know that electric cars and other environmentally friendly cars are typically more expensive at purchase and turn up the environmental premium, which is typically low for electric cars and hybrid cars, then you will be promoting those who are more climate-friendly. But it is true that it is not targeted electric cars alone. That is not our aim either. Our goal is the climate. It is not electric cars that are the target in themselves. It's that we want to do something good for the climate, and I just think that this model is both more long-term and much better. If we can get the 90,000 company cars that drive out there today like giant sledges to be maybe hybrid cars or just some that drive really far on the liter, then we'll move much more climatewise than we do by saying that it just has to be an electric car right now. So in this way it is not electric cars that are an end in themselves. It's that we save the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175125	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175127	This may explain why we had difficulty finding each other, because the Danish People's Party wants to hold onto the diesel and petrol cars, and the rest of us want to get into the modern cars that drive on electricity or drive hybrid on electricity. But as far as I can tell, hybrid cars don't come out of this model either. Will the Danish People's Party just explain to us once more how to get out of dependence on petrol and diesel, which, after all, pollutes wildly and which also pollutes the air for children and people with asthma? How are we to do this in the model chosen by the Danish People's Party when it does not actually provide any green cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175158	Now there are none of the models on the table, nor the other one, which now gives a large number of electric cars, because the technology is simply not ready for it. So what is crucial is that we have a strategy in the long run, and that is where we need the Commission to come up with a qualified kick, because none of these things do anything in the short run. We're spending 410 million. kr. for 400 electric cars and 600 hybrid cars, and that was actually including corporate car taxation. Now it's out, so the number is actually less than 1,000 now. So you can try to pretend that it is now the Danish People's Party that does not want anything we want one diesel car. No, we actually had the same proposal as the Radical Left that we would like to see a change in car taxes. Since it was not possible, we tried to see if we could just make a change for the technology of the future, that is, for the electric cars. It might be imagined that they did not have a registration fee but had a current tax which was on these technical parameters. We couldn't get through with that either. So we actually had a lot of good, constructive ideas about what we could do and that reached out to the future, but we couldn't get through with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175254	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175258	If I understand the rapporteur correctly, I understand that technology neutrality conceals the fact that you operate both with electric cars and perhaps other really green cars, but you also operate with diesel and petrol cars, and I do not really see how it brings us where we want to, especially when you are not particularly concerned about bringing some target figures in any way. This was one of the things we discussed a great deal and which we also clearly, what to say, broke on, that we cannot get any target figures, but I can understand that if the Danish People's Party actually believes that technology neutrality also includes that green conversion can include petrol and diesel cars. In my opinion, it is a little less than that, because it may well be possible to make them greener along the way. The general technology for these kinds of cars may well develop, but it will be very, very little ambitious if you do not want to set targets for the real green cars that the electric cars are or the hydrogen cars are and at the same time operate with the cars that it is all about getting rid of. I don't think that's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175422	But we also have to deal with where we are with technology right now. The electric cars have both too short reach and they are too expensive for the Danes to buy them, and there is not even a market for us to say that all 200,000 cars sold in one year should be electric cars instead of diesel and petrol cars. We just have the pragmatic approach that there are a lot of cars running around out there today, which may, and this is just an example, run 15 km on the liter. If we can get them to drive perhaps 30 km on the gallon or more, because it will be hybrid cars or some that are just driving a long way, then we would rather take that step now, and in the long run we will have to find out, both with the Commission's recommendations, and with technology becoming more mature and manufacturers starting to produce better cars. Then it is clear that we will then move on to something that will mostly be one electric car or hydrogen car, because there is a better range because you can refuel. But we will not sit in advance to say that it has to be electric cars. It could also be hydrogen cars or something else that we don't know yet, but until we get to where it's more mature, we just think it's common and pragmatic common sense to get people away from a large diesel floater that runs pretty short on the liter, to something that runs a long way on the liter. After all, it moves something here and now until we get the new technology that can take over, but it obviously cannot now, unfortunately. I would hope it could, but the technology is just not ready for it at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175535	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175538	Well, I'd like to dispute that a little bit. Technology is there, and it is true that it needs to be developed, all technologies must be developed, and that is also what the rapporteur is calling for for for diesel and petrol cars. So the technology keeps evolving, but it's there. We see it in a lot of countries. Norway is highlighted one time after another, where there are real, very many electric cars around, and where a large part of the new sale of cars is electric cars. Does the rapporteur not think that this could lead to the strategy which the rapporteur likes to pursue, in other words, that it could actually lead to a slowing down of the objective, which is, after all, if you have that objective, and I have to say that we have, and I believe that the opposition has, that is to say, the objective of phasing out petrol and diesel cars. But if we continue to rely on them and a little technology development on them, the real aim will be delayed, compared with, as I said before, the fact that we do not set targets for example. electric cars and hydrogen cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175633	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175635	You can live in the dream world where we all buy electric cars alone from next year. Firstly, we cannot get so many people into the Danish market because they are not being produced. Secondly, you can just look at the price of this, which is 410 million. kr. for 400 electric cars and approx. 600 hybrid cars, 410,000 kroner. per All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all If we imagine that we would all have electric cars, that would not be possible. Wasn't it better to have a slightly more pragmatic approach and say that okay, there's a technology now that's mature. Is that what we are going to have in the long term? No, it's not. But wasn't it better to get people to drive more environmentally friendly cars right now, and then in the long term, by the 2020s, get it changed, so we're going to drive electric cars and hydrogen cars, or whatever else it can be of technology, because that's what we share. However, we insist that we do not think it is wise now to tie ourselves to a target figure that is called 1 million precisely by 2030. If the technology may come a little slower than we hope, it may be 2031, and then it is a little silly that we have tied ourselves to a technology a year too early and are going to post in a lot of billions to achieve it. I don't think it's a shame if we make it in, for example. 2031 instead of 2030. So I do not think there is much contradiction. After all, we share the view that we need a green transport sector, and we also share the view that it should be hydrogen cars and that it should be electric cars, but we are not there yet. So why not relate to the reality that is where we are trying to promote the environmentally friendly cars that are there right now? That's better after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175747	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left Party, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211175802	Thank you. I am speaking as a substitute for Louise Schack Elholm, our tax rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today. Fortunately, we are in the situation where a quick overview of the Chamber will show that there are no less than two Leftmen present, then there will be questions about very specific matters, I am quite sure that the tax minister can respond to better than I can. With an ambitious green agenda, we in the Left want to make it cheaper to buy green vehicles. With the proposal here, we ensure that no tax will be paid for the next 2 years for electric cars up to DKK 400 000. in price. Unfortunately, this is not something that everyone is involved in at the moment, but now we have to see how the negotiations are going. The draft law at least testifies to the Government's desire to strengthen the green agenda, because the proposal introduces a delay in the planned phasing-in of the registration fee for electric vehicles by 1 year, while at the same time extending and increasing the base deduction in the registration fee. The proposed amendment will mean that for electric vehicles with a value of up to DKr 400 000. 0 kr. in registration fee in both 2019 and 2020. For electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles, the proposed deferred phasing-in of the tax will lead to the continuation of the tax level for 2016-2018 in 2019 and the current rules for electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles will be postponed and resumed from 2020 onwards. The current rules for fuel cell-powered vehicles shall be extended by one year so that they are all valid up to and including 2021. By postponing the phasing-in of the registration fee and changing the bottom allowance for electric vehicles by 2020, buying electric vehicles will be cheaper, thus making environmentally friendly cars an economically more attractive alternative to petrol and diesel vehicles. In addition, the bill will promote the spread of particularly small and medium-sized electric vehicles, up to a value of DKK 400 000. It is the size of cars that make up by far the largest part of Danes car purchases. Of course, they pollute less than the more expensive and larger cars do. Finally, the draft law ensures that the taxation of electric vehicles will be tranquilized and, as has been said, the government will set up a Transport Commission which will have the necessary tranquillity to find the financing of a robust and long-term charging model to promote the spread of green vehicles. It is important that through regulation we encourage Danes to invest in environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly transport. A postponement of the phasing-in of the registration fee and a change in the bottom allowance for electric vehicles make the energy both greener and cheaper for the Danes, while maintaining the high pace of the green transition. It is a bill that is good for both the environment and the wallet, and it will be cheaper for the Danes to buy green cars. By its very nature, the Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180122	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180126	At the opening of the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister stood on the Speaker's Chair and presented a very fine vision for what needs to be done in relation to the green transition, especially in the transport sector, namely that we will have to phase out petrol and diesel cars and bring in electric cars or similar equally good technologies, and that there should therefore be 1 million green cars on the roads by 2030. My and some of my colleagues in the opposition's argument in the debates of which the rapporteur has just to say it was not a part, was that, if it is not just words, one has to commit one another to it, perhaps setting up some sub-targets and saying that we are moving slowly there. Because it's incredibly far from the status quo to 1 million electric cars. So we can't just wait until 2029 and then say, "Hey, next year we just need 970,000 or something." That is why I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, and now I do not really think it is a polemical idea, understand that it was important for us to make a reference to the Prime Minister's own words in an agreement of which the parties were part, to say that we would actually like to put action behind those words so that they are not just words, but we all commit ourselves to having ended up there in 12 years' time in different ways. Then we will have to find out on an ongoing basis what sort of grip it takes to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180302	I do not think it is necessary to make specific references to the Prime Minister's speech in any agreements. The Prime Minister has said the words here in the Folketing, and they stand by his authority, from the government and from the parties involved, so it is hardly necessary to repeat that. I would like to put it this way: the proposal we are debating today is at least a step in the direction indicated by the Prime Minister, because it gives calm to the market, so that the Transport Commission can work with an overall strategy. And the result of the Commission's work will then be here in 2020. However, as I said, there will then be a lot of work to find out, all in order to achieve the objective, as the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180343	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180345	All the consultation answers mention as a huge problem that there is no peace, that there is no long-term agreement or just a long-term goal in which a concrete agreement must then move in that direction. That is something all the consultation answers address: there is no long-term point in this, there is no calm in this; it is a continuation of the zigzag course that has been. But I am glad that the rapporteur says that, when the Prime Minister, as President of the Left, has stood on the floor of the Parliament and said that this is what you want, you must therefore also, I must deduce, take part in the agreements and things that are needed to get there on an ongoing basis. This also applies to the Left when you are not in government anymore that you will commit to it as a party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180431	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180432	After all, I do not think it is possible to blame either the Left or the Government for the absence of any tranquillity on the market. As far as I understand, it was only last Friday that an agreement was sought which perhaps created much more peace than this. It couldn't come up, so I think this is at least the best you can do. At least we'll get some peace in this area during this period while the commission works. Of course, it would have been nice to have a total agreement, and I am not going to comment on who is responsible for it not being settled. This may be discussed with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180505	There are just a few more brief comments. Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180508	Thank you very much. I understand that the Prime Minister's words about 1 million electric cars stand in the way of that, as the rapporteur says, and we must think that this is such a magic formula, so if you just say it loudly and long enough, there will be perhaps a million electric cars. But would the rapporteur agree that when there is a plan that provides 1,000 electric cars, there is really a lot of up to 1 million cars actually 1,000 times as much and that it is perhaps a little difficult to find it particularly ambitious when you are talking about 1 million electric cars that you can then come up with a plan of 1,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180543	I was a mathematical student, so I should be able to answer it, even if it was a few days ago. It is 1,000 times 1,000, which is 1 million, but that does not change the words the Prime Minister has said about that being the ambition. And this is at least the first step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180602	Mrs Ida Auken would like to make a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180607	Then you could say that it was 2030 that we had to reach 1 million electric cars. There are 12 more years, and you take 1,000 the first year, so you have to reach 999,000 the rest of the years. It's just to signal that it's a very big and fine speech to make and some very small mouse steps to take. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180630-2	Now I didn't just find out what it was that I had to agree that it was a fine speech that was made? I would probably be unpopular if I said in my own party at least that the Prime Minister had not made a fine speech. But yes, it is an extremely ambitious objective that has been made clear. But I guess it also tells us how important it is for the parties to go together and not break up about this, and that is probably what it is for the time being to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180655	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180658	Thank you. First of all, I should like to say that I was not part of the debate by the rapporteur at the moment, so that we did not hear anything about ensuring long-term calm in this area, i.e. that it was part of the negotiations to make a long-term agreement. I would just like to ask some of what the rapporteur said in the speech, and then he has to say if it makes no sense to answer. Maintaining the high speed of the green transition, I heard it said. I agree that we are restricting a brake, but I would just like to explain the high speed, which I do not really see, in that we do not make any further agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180745	No, you could say that too, if you look in isolation at what is happening here. But it should not be a secret that this is only a small part of the agreements and the proposals that have been made by the government on behalf of the green transition. And therefore, allow me to say that there is a high speed • really high speed • when it comes to the green switch.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180805	Thank you. Then we thank the Left rapporteur and pass the baton on to the Enhedslisten. And this is sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211180819	It is. And Enhedslisten supports the bill we are discussing here about postponing the phasing-in of registration fees on electric cars. This is not because we are happy about it, because we consider it in any case a patching-up solution to the disastrous agreement that was made three years ago in 2015, when the phasing-in of registration fees for electric cars began. And it did, in spite of warnings from a number of parties at the time, among other things. My own party totally stalled the electric car sales. We would have liked to have seen a longer period of time and, just as at that time we were totally opposed to starting to phase in registration fees for electric cars, we would have liked to have seen a much longer period of tax reduction in this situation. And that is especially so if you have as your goal and ambition to reach 1 million electric cars or green cars by 2030. Now that the government has an ambition of 1 million green cars by 2030, one could at least expect to see a plan for how to get there. And one of the things we have discussed a great deal in the negotiations is, of course, to draw up a plan containing some target figures. It can be said that the government has basically had 3 years to make a bid on how to get there, so climate change is not new at all. And I think it's like it's panicked at the moment. We have had three years in which we could have worked intensively to draw up a plan on how to convert the transport sector, how to get the green transition through in the transport sector. But no, we could not get an estimate of that; we could not get either target numbers or an overall plan. So what remains is that we are dealing here with an ambition to get 1,000 electric cars and then the setting up of a commission to look at how this is going to work. And frankly, we don't think that's very ambitious. In other words, as other rapporteurs have said, we would also like to see a radical change. We may also have to because technology is developing. A radical restructuring of our entire charging system is necessary so that we can support and put turbo more on the green transition of the transport sector. And, of course, it will be with something that takes account of the climate impact that cars represent in one way or another. It will be something with road pricing, so we also tax the consumption of driving. And in the Enhedslisten, we do not think that we are completely free to operate with some kind of registration fee or other form of fixed charges. We have to say that the government has recognised that there is a problem and that it is also a challenge that needs to be taken seriously, but, as I have said, we need to see some action. There is broad support in the industry for something to happen. As I said, the government has not really done anything in the 31⁄2 years that it has had, which could boost the sale of electric cars, on the contrary. Apart from the fact that the phasing-in of registration fees for electric cars has been initiated, the registration charge on fossil cars has also been reduced, in other words on petrol and diesel cars, which, if I may say so, is moving in exactly the opposite direction. Making them cheaper means, of course, that there will be more of them. And I have heard nothing about the government having an ambition to tighten that up again. As a result, the switch to electricity in the transport sector has been postponed. Anyway, of course we're for this patch solution as it is. There is no doubt on the part of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181233	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181236	Thank you. I understand that Enhedslisten is calling for a long-term plan for it, but then you cannot get it because it is now coming on a commission. But I'd like to know what's Enhedslisten's plan. I mean, how is it gonna be possible for us all to drive electric cars? I have not heard any bids from the Enhedslisten, and it could be interesting to hear here from the Danish Parliament's speaking chair. Because I could understand from the question to me, when I was on the platform, that we must not promote environmentally friendly petrol cars, i.e. cars that are much more environmentally friendly than those we have today. So I'm just having a hard time seeing how you're going to make this change of car charges if you're not allowed to drive in petrol cars at all. How will it be achieved that we will all be driving in electric cars or hydrogen cars from next year? I'd like to hear that. What is Enhedslisten's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181318-2	Of course, we also have no ambition that we should have 1 million electric cars next year or that we should all drive in green cars. Of course. This is a transition that's going to take place over years. We think that 2030 could be an excellent target year. We have some ideas ourselves that it could well be speeded up to 2025. But that was precisely what we had to say in some negotiations, and we had to draw up a plan to set up these target figures year by year, we could almost say, and in line with technological developments, and then we have to see how far we are going. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned earlier that it might well be that it was in 2031 and that it might also be that it was in 2028. Yes, these are the uncertainties that you operate with, and of course you have to take them into account in your plans, and we fully agree that you do. But it's all about getting into the room that's called: let's get a plan, let's get some target numbers. Is the ambition of 1 million electric cars in 2030 just • literally hot air, or can we try to set some milestones on the way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181422	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181423	Thank you. I heard sir. Henning Hyllested say exactly the same thing I said, namely that we need to have technological development so that we get there that it has to be done gradually. I am just wondering, because it was like what I was criticized for in a question. But until we get there, we have to bet that there are also some cars that are more environmentally friendly than others, so bet on them until we get there. I fully agree that we need a long-term plan. The Commission then comes up with this, but I just think it sounds a little hollow that I am criticized for saying from the platform that, after all, we have to recognise that it will be a few years before we are there to phase out the petrol cars. If you don't have an answer to it yourself now, it sounds even more hollow. We say basically the same thing, all parties. I guess it's almost more about election tactics, where you try to pretend to the Danes that you're more environmentally friendly than others when we stand and say the same thing from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181511	As I have understood, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, we are operating precisely with technology development, and what I know about diesel and petrol cars, and we consider this to be moving the focus from what it is all about: the real green conversion of the transport sector, if I may say so, in the form of electric cars, hydrogen cars, or whatever it may be. Continuing to focus on petrol and diesel vehicles will, in our opinion, slow down the process, and it will, of course, do that if we sat down and made an overall plan, for example. Until 2030, or whatever the target year may be, that plan would probably not be possible, as it would take several years to get the real green transition. After all, this is about getting development moving, so that technological development is also pushed more and more forward than it already is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181614	With that, we thank Mr. Henning Hylllested. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181624	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by saying that LA, as a government party, naturally supports this proposal. Let me also say straight away that this is a difficult task that the Minister of Taxation has had. I think everyone would appreciate that. There have been difficult negotiations, and they are so translated into this bill that we are dealing with now and that LA naturally supports as a government party. But I also have to be honest and say that this is not the most sensible proposal that has ever been made in this matter. With the proposal, 410 million will be spent. kr. That there are 1,000 more electric and hybrid cars coming on the roads. In comparison, there are today approx. 44 million electric and hybrid cars in the world, so that's quite a lot of money for a rather marginal increase of that type of car. In comparison, 100 million could be spent. kr. remove the crack on the registration fee so that the registration fee fell from the completely grotesque figure of 150 per cent. to the still grotesque figure 85%, and that might have led to more electric and hybrid cars on the roads too, but socio-economically it would have been a better way of spending the money. I am well aware that this would be a lasting amount, but a large amount is 100 million. kr. usually not when we discuss amounts in here in the Folketing. I do not think that many agreements are made in this Parliament, which is less than 100 million. kr. It is not because I have to be misunderstood that I am saying that I am, of course, glad that there are some cars that are getting cheaper in tax; I really am, but for the citizens of Denmark it would have been much better if the same majority had agreed to remove the crack on registration fees. In other words, the wise men themselves have been out to say that, from the point of view of the environment, cars are already overtaxed today by 16 billion. kr., so the environmental argument is not really very good. Fortunately, there is a technological development in progress which will lead to more of this type of car coming in the future. But sometimes politics is difficult, and sometimes I find it unnecessarily complicated. But, as I said, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181935	This gives rise to a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211181938	It is almost a bit funny that we are discussing electric cars in the Chamber today, and then we should hear from the Liberal Alliance about how we can get more cheap petrol cars. After all, the Liberal Alliance is a party that believes very much in incentives. I do the same in certain areas. That is why it is no wonder that when you reduce the registration tax three times while taxing electric cars, you get what you want politically, namely a complete stop to the sale of electric cars and a great many more petrol cars. I agree with the rapporteur that it is an expensive and non-optimum proposal • barely 1,000 electric cars correspond to a day and a half of sales of petrol cars, a day and a half. But you get what you politically want. When in other countries you have much more electric cars, and now I am not just talking about Norway, it is because you have had a strategy for it or because you have created economic incentives. I would say that the Liberal Alliance and the policy of promoting petrol cars so much, so we have so many more petrol cars on the roads, have been a very powerful factor in making the transition to the green sector so slow. Will the rapporteur comment on this, in other words, that the policy pursued by this very large increase in the sales of petrol cars has helped to slow down the process of converting our passenger transport in a green direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182119	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182121	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen must of course think it amusing that I stand and advocate that petrol cars should also be cheaper. I am not sure that there are so many Danes who think that it is so amusing to have to pay 150 per cent. in the registration fee. Well, a lot of Danes need a car to make a life together. And the Danes' everyday life may not always be as high-flying and high-beating as it can be in here in the Folketing when we talk about saving the whole world etc. I like to take these people into account, because I think that's kind of part of the job of being in here. I do not agree that the policy pursued in Denmark and the tax reductions that have been made are the reason why there should be fewer electric cars. There is probably no country where it is as attractive to buy an electric car rather than a regular petrol car as it is in Denmark. There's a huge difference in the tax. Other countries which do not have a registration fee at all, such as the United Kingdom, have no registration fee. Sweden or the United States for that matter, have a much larger share of electric cars. So the thing about tying it up on the registration fee and that there has to be a big difference and that in itself it should mean something, I'm not quite sure that's right. The truth is that there are a lot of Danes who don't want these cars because they are difficult and just aren't as good as ordinary cars. When they do, the Danes will buy them. But they're just not now. So the Danes do not want them to the extent that the politicians want the Danes to want them. That's how it is sometimes they're difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182306	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182308	It is fun, so special we are in Denmark: In Denmark it is difficult to have an electric car or in other ways very difficult to have an electric car. In many other countries, people do not find it as difficult. In a very car-happy country like the United States, for example, you have in the United States. California's got a lot of electric cars. Why? Because the California state had decided to get a lot of cars out on the market. The Tax Committee was over to visit them. They had a strategy to buy public electric cars and subsequently sell them on the second-hand car market. Things don't just fall out of the sky. So the government has got what you've been asking for because you've lowered the price of petrol cars and raised it on electric cars. I think it is a little too bad if only the Ministers of the Liberal Alliance should be allowed to drive around in expensive Tesla.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182401	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182402	Well, I think so, too. I would certainly like more Danes to be able to afford to buy a proper car. That is also why I would like to reduce the registration fee. I note, then, that in countries where you do not have a registration fee, people drive more electric cars than they do in Denmark. So maybe that focus on the registration fee isn't exactly the right focus. Then I just think that when we have a knowledge of it and want to lower CO2 there we just have a lot of knowledge that it is not just the matter of higher taxes on, for example. petrol cars. In other words, the charges are far too high today in relation to what the environmental impact, the damage, the wear and tear on the roads, can justify. So you are not interested in listening to what expertise says, and that is fair enough, but we are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182502	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182504	Is the Liberal Alliance concerned about climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182516	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182519	Well, that's nice to hear. I understand from the rapporteur that this is then a very expensive and wrong way of doing something for the climate. Will the Liberal Alliance not tell us what their proposals are to do about climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182531	I mean, in case you need 410 million. kr., and you wanted something for the money, you could look at such things as insulation of houses, for example. I think that is one of the things that those who know about it have pointed out is one of the cheapest things you could do and there you would get more for the money. However, do not misunderstand me, I am glad that for political reasons some cars are becoming cheaper. I am just saying, and I can hardly understand it despite political differences, that it does not make the impression that for 100 million. kr. You could get rid of the high crack, so it would mean an incredible amount to a lot of people. But I just think that this is probably not the smartest way to do it, but I'm glad some cars are getting cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182618	Thank you. We're getting a lot around both in questions and answers in this case. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182627	Well, let's go all the way to Norway or to the United States, where they seem to want to drive electric cars. I do not know what is difficult about it, but it is also quite awesome to drive an electric car. But in Norway and the United States they also have longer distances, and that just has to make it even more difficult than at home, where we do not have quite so long distances. If these changes don't do that, what could be the reason? What could make the Danes choose electric cars? Why are the Norwegians and the Americans doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182705	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182706	Well, I'm not gonna know why the Danes don't take it as much into account. I just note that if you look at the difference in registration fee, then the financial incentive to buy an electric car in Denmark is very, very large, and it is by its very nature much larger than in countries where there is no registration fee on any cars. But the Danes haven't got any idea why they haven't taken it to the same extent, but the political attempts and our desires from in here about like getting them to do it are obviously not something that completely bites them. I just have to make that clear. And then I just think that out in the real world there are a lot of other considerations to take into account when a daily life is to be connected and you have to have a car that can work for your family etc. Although it is of course annoying for a lot of people in the Alternative that this is the kind of consideration that the Danes attach more importance to, it is such a thing. And then I'm a little skeptical about pushing things down on the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182808	Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182810	Thank you. Well, the reason why I actually just asked I know that it may not be entirely reasonable to ask why the Americans and the Norwegians choose as they do was that the rapporteur himself mentioned that the Danes might not have chosen it for the reason that it was difficult. I don't know what the explanation is either. Now I am also human in the real world and live in a place in Denmark where you can't just do so well without a car, but I also see some with electric cars that are actually doing just fine. So I'm having a hard time just seeing what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182846	Yeah, I guess that's more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182850	I'm gonna let it stand. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211182852	First of all, I think it is necessary to address what is at the heart of it, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen says here in the discussion that it should only cost 100 million. kr. to remove the upper part of the registration fee. I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen to acknowledge that it is an amount based on a 22-23 year-old sample survey which has nothing to do with vehicle taxes. It can be answered with a yes, I know. When we get past that question, I would really like to have Mr. Joachim B. Olsen to relate to the discussion about green company cars. Now that you're saying yes to this bill, you're saying yes to it... Joachim B. Olsen also supported the supplement that we are bringing? Indeed, we think that green company cars should also be cheaper and more attractive to get to, so that the range of companies that are ready to roll it out among their employees get the help that will lie in it. Is that something that the Liberal Alliance wants to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183003	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183005	With regard to the cost of removing the high tax and on which study it is based, it is my understanding that it has been looked at in the Ministry of Taxation and that it has not changed the elasticity because, as far as I remember, the tax minister may have to correct me that it is not a labour supply effect, but that the Danes have the same car consumption, that is to say, spend just as much money and therefore buy larger cars, and therefore there will be more money in the box in the form of the remaining registration fee, VAT, etc. So, as far as I remember, the level of self-financing is still around 70% when you reduce the tax, and that just says that the socio-economic situation is completely hopeless to have such a high tax. Well, it's really throwing money out the window, and I just don't think it makes sense that you do. As far as corporate car taxation is concerned, I guess this is something we need to talk about somewhere else than right here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183116	That's right, and now it's sir. Jesper Petersen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183119	I refer to the answers given by the Minister for Finance and, indeed, there is the effect that the Danes then buy larger cars, for which there is still a tax, and that makes the loss less, but there is also a labour supply effect. I think that in the political debate we attach very great value to some very uncertain calculations and present them with very great certainty, as is done here by Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, chairman of the Committee on Finance, who has just witnessed a discussion with the economic wise men about how uncertain these figures are. I think we are actually guilty of what they are warning us about, namely a very square and sloppy round with some very uncertain figures. I take this last point as a positive statement from Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen says that there is some opening that we can have a discussion about the company cars and that it has a greater chance of succeeding if it does not happen here, but in another room. If that is how I interpret it, I am actually very satisfied with the otherwise very short answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183227	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183228	I'm very interested in what the wise men say. There is a tendency from the left sometimes to forget that the uncertainty that certainly exists goes both ways. It may as well be that it is even cheaper and that the level of self-financing is even higher. And when we had the wise men of the Finance Committee the other day there was Mr. Jesper Petersen who was also asked specifically about the registration fee, they also said that it was sensible to use a self-financing rate, and they did not problematizing that a self-financing rate of 0.1 per cent was used. So I think there is quite a broad consensus that the level of self-financing is quite high when you lower the levy at 150 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183316	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183332	Thank you. My wife and I have two sons, one two and a half years old and one four months old. Their future and the opportunity to grow up in a well-functioning and peaceful world in these years depend exceptionally much on the decisions we take here in the Folketing. Now, for all 35 years of my life, the political majority has chosen to ignore the warnings about our climate influences. Although electric cars represent only a small part of the solution, this is an extremely important part of ensuring a green transition in transport. Therefore, it aroused hope to hear the government's plan of 1 million climate-friendly cars on the roads by 2030. It aroused hope that one day in the future my sons could look around and with awe see and rejoice that Denmark stopped and decisively tackled radical systemic changes in society. At a time when it looked almost impossible, Denmark's example opened the way for the rest of the world's leaders to see and show admirable leadership, understanding and will for change. And on this day far out in the future, as a former member of the Danish Parliament and tax rapporteur at precisely this landmark moment in history right up to Christmas 2018, I could look back and tell my sons and their children what it was like to sit around the table, as the government, which at that time consisted of the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, presented such an ambitious plan that the otherwise traditionally more green thinking opposition was blown behind by enthusiasm and in pure speechlessness had nothing more to say than: Thank you, where do we sign? And let's get started. The government's support party, the Danish People's Party, did not want to be outside, and in this way it was a united Parliament that finally began to save the world. The whole world would know Lars Løkke Rasmussen, for on the outskirts of every forest and in every square of the cities stood statues of him, and in every home his image hung on the wall. Even in China they knew him, and in Africa they called their sons Lars. He was forever the prime minister, whom Denmark and the whole world thanked and annually hailed for Christmas. It could have been that way, but back to the present and back to reality. Because Christmas lasts a long time, but hope didn't. The green ones were ultimately not welcome around the table. We are now in the absence of a common agreement on electric cars and will have to adopt a postponement of the phasing-in of registration fees for electric vehicles, etc. At the same time, it would be both sensible and beautiful if we looked further ahead and took responsibility forward when we passed legislative proposals in this Chamber, if we thought beyond the next elections, beyond ourselves and perhaps even right out there, where we thought about Earth and our descendants. My bright green hope is now that the next Prime Minister will take up the task and be remembered and honoured for being the person and leader who had empathy and the courage to take responsibility for the climate and ensure the future of our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183725	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. The next in line is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211183738	Thank you very much. Two months ago, the Prime Minister stood here, where I stand now, and gave a brilliant speech about Denmark having to get rid of petrol and diesel cars and having no less than 1 million electric cars. It was later moderated to green cars, and that's okay in 2030. I was actually really happy, because I thought it was ambitious, I thought it was brave, and I thought it set a direction, because it was the first time we saw the Prime Minister also wanted something at home in Denmark and not just to keep a toast talk out in the world. So I was really looking forward to action behind the words. After all, we all agree that it is not the case that we can just decide today something that gives 1 million electric cars, but we can decide something that pays more than 1.000. But that's what the PM put on the table. So 1,000 electric cars could be obtained a year with the proposal the government put on the table 1 million, 1,000, okay. If you do not get the help of technology development, the Prime Minister has now set a pace where it will take 1,000 years to achieve his goals. It is a little bit longer than the 12 years he said in his speech. So you have a nice toast about a million electric cars, but when you have to face reality and trade, there are 1,000 electric cars. I'm sorry to say this, but I think that at this rate, we're more likely to have 1 million flying cars by 2030 than to get 1 million electric cars at the rate you're putting at the moment. So couldn't we have had a proposal that at least was just trying to turn on the buttons we have to turn on? In addition to keeping the registration fee down, it could actually have been said that we are going in and doing this change of registration tax completely now. This also means that some of the petrol and diesel cars will be a little more expensive, and we in the Radicals think this is okay, because the electric cars will then be better in competition and you pay for your own pollution. We must bear in mind that petrol and diesel vehicles also contribute to very serious air pollution, not least in our cities. We thought it would have been really nice to go in and make this change now. There has been a preparatory work going on in this area back under two previous governments, so of course we could have done this now if the political courage had been there. But if you don't want to put the registration fee around now and give the market calm and show the direction, then there were various buttons to turn on, not just to keep the registration fee down or completely away on all the electric cars, you could have done as the Climate Council said, namely put on a grant, you could have looked at the company cars, it was so one of the small steps that was to take • you could have looked at the public vehicles you could have looked at the taxis. There are so many opportunities to give a serious boost to the electric cars, but the government would not. We tried in the negotiations. It has become a very exciting debate on the negotiations up here, and I can well say what we tried to keep pushing the agreement in an ambitious direction. We sat at the table for a long time and asked if we could at least just write the Prime Minister's objectives into the agreement. We weren't supposed to. I do not know whether the party that did not want the goal to be written in will itself confess and say who did not want the agreement to have a real objective. I won't tell you. Nor would you build a real bridge over to the new tax system and say, okay, so we promise to keep the taxes off the electric cars until the new registration tax system is there, and you would not oblige each other to say that we will do so when this commission arrives. So there was really nothing more than these little mouse steps forward, and I really do not think we can be familiar with the citizens of this country. You can't make such a big speech and stand and say 1 million in 12 years, but then come with 1,000 in the first year. We simply cannot offer that to our citizens. Nor can you offer the climate, and you can't bid this country that country, which has to lead the world and be a green country that has to show how the windmills are connected with the transport sector, so that the electric cars can charge at night when the wind blows and there is too much green power, and drive by day or even send electricity back to the grid. That is why the electric cars are so important; they are a very, very important piece of the whole green transition, and we must ensure that the infrastructure is in place and in place when the technology development really breaks through, and that therefore requires much more than the government has put on the table. We support the proposal now before us in order to avoid disasters here on 1 January, but we do not think what the government has come up with is in any way ambitious in terms of climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184217	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184219	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Ida Auken if she recognises that we need technology development before we really really see that this is getting moving. Such a ketchup effect is also sometimes used politically. Frankly, I think it's gonna be a little frivolous when you say that this gives 1,000 electric cars, and ergo it's gonna take 1,000 years before you have 1 million electric cars. Well, I don't think anybody's trying to tell people that. After all, these will be the last few years when it will really be fast, and I hope that the Radical Left will recognise this as well. So it was really just a question of whether it isn't a bit untrue to say that it's 1,000 electric cars, and ergo takes it 1,000 years, when everyone in the industry sort of knows that this is something that's going to go really fast at the end of maybe not in the first few years, when most of all it's about giving the market peace, and we do that with this. I would also have liked to have done something that was more long-term, but trying to pretend to the Danes that it takes 1,000 years is perhaps a little simplistic. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184311	I said very clearly that if we did not get help from technology development, it would take 1,000 years. It was just to show what the level of ambition was in the Prime Minister's speech. We all agree that a lot is going to happen in this area. I think the electric cars will be fully competitive in 3-4 years, perhaps 5 years, and that is why we need a whole change in the registration fee so that it does not strike a proper hole in the treasury. That's why we have to do it now. But there's a long way away and to say there was no other way to do anything more at this point. We could have done many more things. We could have looked at all the public vehicles in the municipalities. In the Region of Zealand they have bought electric cars and shown that in two thirds of cases it is simply cheaper to drive electric cars because they do not have to be tanked with petrol. They have to be loaded with electricity, and it's a lot cheaper. So part of the ketchup effect is that the neighbour suddenly has an electric car that shows that it can be done. It can be charged, and it can actually cope with the distances you need in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184408	Then Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær just have one more brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184411	You can always do more, but it also depends on what the price is, i.e. whether it is reasonable. After all, this is relatively expensive for really few electric cars, but it is to bridge the gap to the commission that is coming, where hopefully we will have a better basis for making, as we also want, technically based taxes. You could say that now we have 12 years, and if we're going to have 1 million electric cars, we're going to have 83,000 electric cars next year. But the technology isn't ready for that. And, by the way, if we were to finance it, we wouldn't be able to afford it at all. So we have to take the step by step and get quietly there. It makes good sense to set up a Commission in which we have a proper basis and then take the discussion by 2020, because I really do not think there is so much disagreement. In other words, my party, like the Radical Left, is saying that we need a technical reform of taxes. Should we not just wait and then take the game by 2020 instead of trying to say that we should take it in the Assembly room today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184500	Now I don't know if Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has neighbors, but some of what can trigger this ketchup effect is not just technology development. It's the neighbors, too. Those who have an electric car say that it moves their neighbors when they can see that already today it pays to buy an electric car if you have a fairly large driving requirement, because it is so much cheaper to load an electric car than it is to refuel it. And that's why you can actually buy a relatively more expensive car. So the fact that they are going to drive, and the fact that we get the first push in Denmark, can mean just as much as technology development. So, yes, it is true that in the coming years they will outperform and, I believe, completely destroy petrol and diesel cars, not least because that is where car manufacturers are now putting their investments. But they are already competitive today if you just see it in the slightly larger picture. But it requires that we dare to do this change in Denmark, and it takes some political courage, as neither the Danish People's Party nor the government dared to show it this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184602	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Then we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211184614	This weekend there were climate demonstrations all over the world. It was there in Copenhagen, in Odense, in Aarhus, in Aalborg. Every Thursday there is a climate demonstration out here in front of the Danish Parliament and Christiansborg. A lot of this is led by young people and even by children who say: Our future is at stake. The seriousness that's out there, we just don't find as much in here. I find it disgraceful with the nonchalant way of pulling a little on your shoulder or saying that you just want more cheap petrol cars or that technology will save us. Because we just don't have time to be dull or say that technology has to fix it for us. And now, sir... Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned several times that this technological tiger jump is coming. Why are technological leaps taking place? It is because there is a market and demand. And why is there a demand? It is because in other parts of the world some steps have been taken, so you actually sell some electric cars and there is a market. That is why we have a huge responsibility too. I would just like to remind the government that if agriculture is not to contribute significantly more in climate reductions, then it is in this area that we need to take action. The government, and in particular the Left, would like to be a friend of agriculture and say that agriculture should not bear a greater share of the burden. There the Danish Elbil Alliance has estimated that if you do not have to do so in agriculture, then the extra feature that transport has to lift is that 10%. the car mass in two years' time, i.e. by 2020, must be made up of electric cars. Today it's 0.1%. That means that there will be 100 times as many electric cars in two years, by 2020 as there are today, and we will not get that with this. There we have black and white, that's barely 1,000 electric cars. In fact, I agree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, when he says this is an expensive solution. Why is that an expensive solution? This is because even in the short term there will not be any distribution within cars and redistribute from petrol cars to electric cars. In the SF we have made one proposal after another over the last three years, so that it really could not be felt in either the Finance Act or the State budget at all. And we can't get 1 million electric cars tomorrow, nobody wants that, it's a bit of a strawman, it's not possible at all, and it would also mean a lot to our economy. But we have to go there, and we can do that by thoroughly redoing the way our car system and our charging system operate. In fact, some dramatic things have happened over the last three years. The tragic thing is that three times, at the request of the Liberal Alliance, the registration fee has been significantly reduced. At the same time, taxes have been levied on electric cars. And if you believe in incentives, it should be the last surprise in the world that you get what you ask for. When you make petrol cars cheaper, electric cars more expensive, it cannot come as a surprise to the government that everything has stopped. In fact, I believe that the Minister of Taxation said that the tax minister should be praised for this: yes, we can see that this has had an effect. It's actually an effect we don't want. The Prime Minister has also said: we want a conversion of the green car park. But what we have just said on the part of the opposition is that it does not fall from the sky, and it does not come from some technological development alone. And we have and it's our own fault. Because we are in a situation where climate change is so violent and they are happening right now that we have to have achieved this goal within 12 years, and that is not happening by itself. It is quite right, as the government says, that this is a violent change in our economy and our tax system. And we need to think this through wisely, so that we achieve the objective we need to achieve without a disaster for the state finances. Therefore, it is also good to set up a commission, so that is not at all what my criticism is about, which over a few years will have to look at how to reorganise the charges, so that you reach the target of electric cars and at the same time have a sustainability in terms of how it is financed. But that, and it is the final thing that had been so good, was if we had agreed on all the things that we were, at the same time as we looked into each other's eyes and said: we commit each other to achieving this goal, we write it into the agreement. Right now, no one has anything on each other, and unfortunately I have no faith that about half of this Parliament will do what it takes to achieve the goal that the Prime Minister stood up here and promised the government and the Left would work for. SF is voting for this, of course. It's never been the point of dispute. The point of the dispute has been that we should have ambitious objectives for which the whole parliament could stand up to, and see the people who are outside Christiansborg every week, almost every day, in the eye and say that we did what was necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185201	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185203	This should actually have been a question for some of the other rapporteurs. But now I spent my Question Time on something else there. I just want to know if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can help to tell us who actually helped to make the agreement that makes electric cars actually increased in tax? I can tell you that at least my party wasn't part of it. Because it is a little paradoxical that some of the parties that are saying today that we are too unambitious to do much more. But I might ask the SF's rapporteur a little mistakenly, because I do not think the SF was included in that agreement either. But perhaps the SF's rapporteur could tell us who actually made an agreement in the Folketing, which is responsible for increasing the tax on electric cars since the last election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185239	After all, it was the government as it looked at that time at the end of 2015. It was only the Left. Then I also think the Conservatives were involved, and then it was S and R.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185254	Thank you. There was just one question from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185259	Can we agree that if that agreement had not been reached, there would have been a full tax on cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185305	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185306	There was also a third alternative proposed by the SF, namely that we made an agreement that could be in the long term or in the short term, where we ensured that the electric car sales did not stop and where we continued either a total tax exemption or a very, very small tax and financed it from the ocean of catalogues which we have also discussed in the following years: a change in the tax crack, the deductions for things that are naturally in cars today etc. etc. At that time, the argument was that this would cost 800 million. kr. What has not since been spent on the initiative of the Liberal Alliance and the government parties to reduce registration fees three times? So to this point, it was a matter of policy of necessity and now I really am not talking to the Radicals, I am talking to what was said at the time, that uh, you could finally afford nothing I would say: that money has been spent so many times again by lowering the registration fee on petrol cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185412	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185413	Thank you. It is just to confirm that the Radical Left naturally wanted a full tax exemption for electric cars. Then we chose to go in and lower it instead of getting full tax exemption, and that is the more parliamentarik than it is political desires. For SF and Radicals are fully in line. At that time, we wanted a complete tax exemption for electric cars, just for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185437	Yes, and I know that this was not what the Radical Left or the Social Democrats wanted. The fact that we were included in the agreement at the time was the way in which we also work in here, that sometimes we go along with agreements that we do not really think are so good, in order to influence what follows. I know that's the reason. In the SF we chose differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185500	We thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for her historical information to the Danish Parliament. We can then give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211185509	As the rapporteurs have mentioned, we are discussing the bill which translates parts of the government's proposal •Together for a greener future and which, despite a slightly special debate • I will come back to that, of course, can take down which is actually very broad support in the Folketing. That is why one might also wonder why we could not agree. But I'll get back to that. The draft law then ensures that for the next two years there are favourable conditions for vehicles with green engine technologies. Specifically, we are putting an end to the phasing-in of general registration fees by 1 year for electric vehicles, etc. In addition, we extend the special deduction in the registration fee by 1 year and increase it to 44,000 DKK. in 2019, i.e. next year, and a total of 77,500 DKK. in 2020. The proposals together mean that no registration fee is to be paid for an elephant vehicle with a value of up to DKr 400 000. including VAT for the next two years, i.e. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 29 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The draft law therefore improves the framework conditions for, in particular, small and medium-sized electric vehicles and ensures that these vehicles remain an attractive alternative to petrol and diesel vehicles in the long term. The government's position is that the continued deployment of electric vehicles, be it the plugin hybrid cars, fuel-celled vehicles and nature- and biogas-powered cars, is an important element of the green transition, both in the short and in the long term. It takes a well-prepared and well-thought-out effort to achieve the government's ambition in the long term, and that is why we want to set up a Green Transport Commission, which will, of course, be some of the smartest heads in this country, and they must offer a long-term charging model to ensure the future deployment of vehicles with green engine technologies, also in a socially sound manner. It's gonna cost some money. But we must make sure, at the same time as we achieve the goal, that we do it as wisely as possible. I would like to thank everyone for the answers received by the Ministry of Taxation, and I would say that I am sorry that this is how it is, unfortunately, sometimes that we have only had the opportunity to send the bill in a very, very short hearing over the weekend. On the other hand, there is a little time here for the work of the committee, although the draft law should be adopted before Christmas, where hopefully all the views can be taken into account in the political decision-making process. The short consultation is partly due to the negotiations that have taken place following the agreement on the Financial Act for 2019 and partly to the need for the legislative proposal to be adopted as quickly as possible, so as to avoid an increase in the charges, which are, moreover, what we have agreed and which a large number of the parties that are now problematizing it have been involved. If the charges would increase on 1 January 2019, the market for electric vehicles would probably stop, and we do not really want that. I would like to thank you for the dialogue that has been going on and also for the negotiating meetings that we have had, which unfortunately have not led to us being able to reach a real agreement. I would like to say to the Socialists that I do not really think that the criticism that has been made is correct, so that the government does not take this seriously. The Social Democrats want a fundamental change. That is quite right, but we cannot make a fundamental change now with the knowledge we have. We have to wait for the Commission to come, and that is why I do not understand why an agreement has not been reached that would be better than the legislative proposal that is here and that we have negotiated. I think that has been said in public, but I would like to say this: if we had not been so close to a parliamentary election and this had developed into such a political battleground, where there are also some parties that would like to pull the green voters into their hands, then I think we would have had an agreement, too, that everyone could see themselves in. In fact, I disagree with the view expressed by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen here from the speaking chair of the Folketing that some agreements are not really to be included in. Well, I think that's weird. My party agrees with all the agreements we think are good. If we do not think the agreement is good, we will not go along with it. Are there things we haven't made up in deals? Yes, there is, but we are defending the agreements we make. I would actually ask that of all the parties in the Danish Parliament who agree on something that then you stand for the agreement and vote for it down in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is strange, of course, not that the SF is expressing that view in this matter, but the political view that you are going into an agreement, and then you can just say afterwards that it was stupid and made no sense, and we meant something quite different, is of course a strange form and way of conducting politics. Moreover, I believe that this is a way of leading politicians because the citizen out there will say: but if you disagree with the agreement, why have you entered into it? It doesn't make any sense. Then you can say: we have made a good deal here, we would like something more, that is not possible. I think that is fair to say, but what has been agreed must be approved. I think that's what's best for all of us. I do not understand when the parties support the bill and also support many of the elements we have discussed, why an agreement was not reached with the government and said: yes, the government would do this, and we think that is very good. We could agree on this and all parties must agree to translate part of the money from the energy settlement. We made a good deal here. We wanted something more, we could not agree on that, but what we have agreed is very good and sensible. Why haven't we gotten there? The only explanation for what I can come up with is that we are approaching a parliamentary election. But that is sometimes the case in politics. It lives, and I and the government have to live with that as a premise. But I think it is a little too bad, and I do not think it is fair to accuse the Danish People's Party that it should be their fault. I think the Danish People's Party has been very cooperative in this matter. There have also been parties on the left, which have been extremely cooperative, but there has also been, by God, if you can say by God, from Parliament's platform, I am not sure that some who have not stood by the agreement that was in the energy settlement, and which was that a substantial part of the 100 million. kr., we have set off, should go for individual transport and green transport, and it is therefore electric cars. There it has not been recognised as agreed in my optics and in the optics of the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. After all, we have had discussions about this, and we will continue to have them. We should not be dull in the government's objective of achieving the target of green cars, and I do not think the government is either. So we need speed in it, but we also need to be wise, and the wise thing here is to adopt this bill and, by the way, some of the other things that we could not agree on that would have improved it, and then, on the short run, wait for the Commission to come up with their recommendations and then achieve the objective in the long run. That is my position as Minister of Taxation. Until we can agree on that, I am, after all, pleased that it turns out that there is a large majority in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190302	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190306	Thank you very much. The minister says that the agreement that was on the table would be better than what is here as a bill. And the Danish People's Party says that the government is free to make agreements with the rest of the Folketing. So we put the whole part on company cars from the agreement as amendments. So I guess the minister wants to feel better with us now he's even got a free pass, a running pass from his support party. So can we count on the government's support for what the Minister himself calls better than what is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190341	Yes, but I understand it that way, and if I am wrong, we must correct the fact that the Danish People's Party has quite rightly said that the funding must then also be found. And now I got to laugh a little, although there is not so much to laugh about, about the dialogue that was between Mr. Jesper Petersen and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, where Mr. Jesper Petersen asks why the Danish People's Party does not agree. And when they do not, it is because they do not agree with the government on this matter and do not agree with the Social Democrats and do not agree with the Radical Left. It's perfectly legitimate, I think there should be room for that. As a tax minister, I want to take account of the only party that supports the government, and that is the Danish People's Party. The rest of the parties in the Folketing would like to see another government. And what I have heard from the Danish People's Party is that the government is welcome to make agreements with other parties, but then you have to find the money too. So, if the Radical Left has any idea of how we finance some of the wishes that are, I am of course happy to discuss it. But so far I have only seen proposals that are about spending money that is on the Finance Act and the government's reserves and room for manoeuvre, and yes, then we will not get very far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190450	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190451	No, the Radical Left, together with the other parties who have put it forward, would very much like to spend money from precisely what the Minister was upset about, we could not spend money from just now, namely from the Energy Agreement, the 100 million. DKK set off for green transport. We would like to do so, together with all parties. So it's an offer to the minister, and I understand that if it doesn't happen, it's because the Danish People's Party is blocking the use of that money or we'll have to take Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær on the floor and say: that is possible and then we would really like to find funding that way. So now we're gonna bring the money, too. Why don't we bring those company cars, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190528	I think that is a free pass for Mrs Ida Auken. I mean, I haven't seen before that you've dropped some money into a contract circle, and then you put it into practice without taking everyone on board. I understood that the Danish People's Party has said that it would like to be involved in discussing the issue of this pool, but there the Danish People's Party also has its wishes. It was not the case that the other parties could just agree. And we have, of course, had a discussion about this, where I have heard some reports from a number of parties on the left who do not recognise that we need to spend a substantial part of this money on promoting electric cars, because you have some other wishes. And then we just haven't reached an agreement. It may be that we can do so at a later stage. I would like to take part in this discussion, but then the Danish People's Party and all the other parties will have to take part in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190617	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190619	The Treasury Minister is talking about this, that there isn't so much time for there to be parliamentary elections. I would say that when you have listened to the Prime Minister lately, I think that is where you have to hear whether there will be elections soon. He sounds totally different, and his government sounds totally different now than it has for the past 31⁄2 years. When we negotiated electric cars in autumn 2015, the message was clear: Electric cars are not government priorities. Since then, we have had a huge battle for energy reconciliation and wind turbines and all sorts of other things and have constantly had to haul every concession that benefited the green transport out of the government. Now a parliamentary election is approaching, and the government has found out that there is probably something about it with environmental and climate policy, we should show the voters that we also care about it, and then you stood up and made big green speeches and made climate changes, etc., but when the political action was to be delivered, there wasn't really anything to pick up. There were no long-term commitments; there was not even what the Prime Minister himself had said in the speech that he stood and held from the same platform as the tax minister stands on now. Therefore, there is no good basis for an agreement, but because the government has changed its mind over the year and has come to the same conclusion as us, i.e. that the electric cars should not increase in tax on 1 January, we can now implement this bill. The question is whether we can also implement the action contained in the government's own climate plan to have lower taxation on green company cars. Is it the view of the government that we should also implement it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190749	We would like to do so, but we need to have some funding for it, and the funding that has been pointed out is, of course, part of an agreement that we could not agree to implement. But, of course, if there are other funding proposals, I would very much like to discuss it, but I think it is a bad thing, and I do not think it suits the Social Democrats either to spend money that is not theirs. But I would very much like to discuss how we can find funding for this. What I have to note is that the Social Democratic Party has tabled a bill that was half as ambitious as the government's proposal. Dennis Flydtkjær also inside and it was to postpone the phase-in for a year. Now the government is proposing double that. So we are the ones who are ambitious and not the Social Democrats. However, I would like to listen, and I would also like to discuss how we can do more if we can find the necessary funding. And then I'd like to say quite frankly, yes, we've moved. The Left has moved on to the green agenda, just as the Social Democratic Party has moved on to the foreign agenda. I am one of those who believe that the Social Democratic Party has actually moved forward. It is not an election rick or anything else. And I know that my own party has moved on to the green agenda. I've been moving for three and a half years as tax minister. It is not about a parliamentary election approaching that I have to acknowledge that we have not had the right policy here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190906	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211190909	I think that's nice to hear. What one might then wish for was that it was also a little more translated into political action, and we have just not seen that in the last few weeks in the negotiations we have had with the government. There has been no willingness in the budget negotiations to put a significant amount of money into doing something about environmental and climate policy, for example. to make an ambitious deal on green cars. There was no willingness to take on a real commitment. A long time ago, the work needed could have been set in motion in order to change car taxation more fundamentally. The government hasn't done that. I really still believe that we need to see it before I can really believe what the tax minister is saying now. The first thing that could be done was to say, like us, that we are spending some money from the pool that has been set off in the energy conciliation for green transport, when we were talking about green company cars • 15 increasing to 25 million. kr., I think it's over the next four years and then we get the green company cars with us now. It is not money that you do not have; it is money that has been dropped off in the energy conciliation that we should be spending for this purpose. Does the government agree with that, regardless of what other parties think? Does the government agree with that, now that it has been written into its own climate plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191017	We want to translate this pool, but we do not want to take part in such a debate in the Assembly, where some parties will have exactly what they are interested in. We have to translate the whole pot... that's what we've been proposing. Then there are just some parties that have said that they do not agree with what the government is proposing and that they cannot accept it at all. Then, with such negotiations, we cannot agree, and that is where the opposition must now accept that one is in a situation where one had a bird in one's hand that one might have got, but one would have had the ten on the roof, and now all the birds have flown except this bill. I think it's too bad, but that's how it is. Therefore, when you negotiate, you sometimes have to strike, even if you cannot get it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191054	Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191057	Thank you. It is difficult to strike when you are not sitting at the table, and then you have to read in the newspaper why you are not sitting at the table. I read in the Stock Exchange yesterday that the Alternative and Enhedslisten, by the way, but now it is the alternative that I am talking about here rather sitting and blocking the negotiations, and then you cannot sit at the table. Now I was sitting at the table there on Thursday morning, when we have apparently blocked the negotiations. I don't really think I opened my mouth, and what I said was very short and no different than what I heard people from all sorts of other parties say. So I'm really puzzled. Perhaps this is the kind of thing that can give politicians: when what is presented externally gives a picture to the public that there is no consensus and when there are such explanations here. In any case, I find it hard to understand, but it may be that the Minister would like to clarify this for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191158-2	I actually agree with Mrs Ida Auken that care should be taken. We negotiated, and there must also be respect for that area of negotiation, but now we have started a little on such a debate about the climate of negotiations. You have to be a little careful about that, because there are different interpretations of things. But I can say that if I sit in a debate and I hear clearly from a political party that you agree with what I want and propose, i.e. a clear commitment, then you will not be thrown out of any negotiations. But if I don't hear anything, I sometimes have to choose how to move on. And it's talking to those who clearly say they can see themselves in it and not talk to those who don't say anything or say the opposite. So it is always a good idea to make a clear announcement if you want to sit at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191247	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191249	But as I say, I think it is very clear that when you do not really say anything, you certainly do not say anything that hurts. And in no way did I hear any difference in the opposition or what to say here. I think we are very united on this issue. And in the alternative, we're not gonna stand like that and pull green voters into it. We have plenty of them, so it's like it's not there, the shoe prints, you might say. We really want to spend money on electric cars, and we have also said that money from this conciliation pool can be spent on electric cars. That is why we are also in favour of the amendment that we are in favour of. I mean, I don't understand where you don't want to spend money on electric cars. I simply do not understand that explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191335-2	It's gonna be a little deal technical, but first all the parties met because everyone was in this 100-million-dollar pool. Then I have to say that it was my clear impression that we could not agree on the issue of the pot, and then I met with the next conciliation group where we spent some money. It was the PESO conciliation circle. What two parties were the differences between the two parties? It was the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It is also the case that when we have to reach agreement quickly, instead of meeting with everyone, we can sometimes try to reduce the number of parties we meet with, because in principle we only need a majority to move forward. Unfortunately, I think it was in the exercise that the alternative got a little squeezed, and I'm sorry. I try to take everyone with me, but that's how it is sometimes with processes. It is not everything that works optimally, and I just say that if you give a clear commitment as to what you want, you are sometimes made better than if you do not say anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191429	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191432	Thank you. A great deal of tax policy has been discussed during this parliamentary term, and some of what has been so throughout, at least on the part of the opposition, has been that there should be no top tax relief. I would just like to know whether the Minister cannot confirm that if we introduce this reduction in the climate vehicle tax proposed by the government, which the opposition is pushing for, this would mean a tax reduction of approx. 19,000 kroner. for a top tax payer. That is what it means, and I think that is a little strange when we have had the debate for several years now that we do not want to spend room for manoeuvre on top tax incentives. Now you fight with arms and legs, for now we simply need top tax relief of just about DKK 19,000. because of climate cars. Well, it seems a little weird. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191515	Well, that's what I'm gonna give you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær is absolutely right. It is true that it is written in the papers, and somewhere I think it is somewhat double moral that such symbolically combats top tax relief in all sorts of other areas, but when it comes to climate, there is no problem with that. Personally, I have not understood the parties that are simply saying that we should remove the tax, because what would that lead to? This would lead to a big hole in the Treasury on the short lane, perhaps not on the long line, if we do it wisely, but on the short lane there would be and then it would make people able to drive around the Teslas. And who can afford to buy a Tesla? Well, she's not the one sitting down at the box in Fact, and it's not the metal worker. After all, it is the director who can afford to buy a car for 700,000, 800,000 or 900,000 kroner. tax-free. And I have not really understood why we want to grant them a very large tax credit. That is what I mean by saying that, in order to promote the green transition, we must do so wisely and think about the gap it is striking in the treasury. Can we afford that? Is the climate issue really being promoted? Is there also a distribution profile in what makes sense? There is not a good distribution profile in just removing the tax on all electric cars, including the Tesla.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191628	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191630	Thank you. It was simply an answer to my question as to whether or not approx. 19,000 kroner. To a top treasurer would mean what the left is fighting for in this case. I would really like to hear the Minister's position on the second model that I have played on the field, where there is a revenue-neutral change, in other words where that parameter is turned down by the registration fee and where it is 25%. up to the 300,000 kroner. and then 20 per cent. If, for example, you're gonna have to... put the tax down to a flat fee of 20%, but on the other hand then turned up the environmental surcharge, so it gave the same thing, could not help to promote a green transport sector with climate cars, not targeted electric cars alone, and generally and broadly help to ensure that we get an incentive for more environmentally friendly cars. Could that be something you could talk about?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191713	Well, I think, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær will have to ask that in committee. I think that if you go through the environmental consequences of such a model, it will probably be a more sensible way of reducing CO2 emissions in the short-run, if I haven't just bought into the model but would like to discuss it, it is because it moves around a lot of the tax burden, i.e. when you have to pay less in the registration fee for such a company car, but on the other hand more continuously, and there I would like to look at the effects of it. But I fully agree with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær in that it is probably a wiser way to promote the environment than just by lightening the tax on a Tesla.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191750	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191752	Well, it's absolutely touching to experience the care that both the tax minister and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has the distribution effect in this. It's completely touching. Because it was not at all a tax credit for the very richest who could buy the most expensive cars, since three years in a row the registration fee was not reduced at all. In fact, it was something that increased equality. No, I'm sorry. Now I'm a little sarcastic. From the SF we actually think it would be very good if we could get the green transition to go hand in hand with a balanced social approach to this. It is so little special that the Danish People's Party is constantly talking about a revenue-neutral model, because, as I know, it is now turning into Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær keeps saying it is revenue-neutral, but I have not yet seen how to do it. But at any rate, the distribution profile is poundingly skewed. It's beating high, so I don't even understand why it had to live up to any distributional profile at all. My question without sarcasm or irony to the tax minister is: Is it not true that electric cars could have been promoted for the last three years, when the tax minister has been part of the government, with a better distribution profile than that which has been the result of the three rounds of registration tax reductions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211191924	Well, it's always hard to answer, and it can be easy to look back and reach some conclusion. What we have tried to do and I would like to acknowledge that we have not come to the end of the debate is to promote the electric cars and phase them quietly into the registration tax system to promote the green transition and also to ensure that there is no sudden lack of a two-digit billion euro in the Treasury. And there we have to note that taxation has been too harsh. That is why it may well be that we should have opened the debate on a Green Transport Commission earlier than we have done. However, we have tried to promote the electric cars and also to create a stairway to phase the electric cars into a common charging system. Because if you just drive around out there on the roads in the electric cars without paying any charge and that's guaranteed for all eternity then we risk missing 50 billion. kr. from petrol taxes, diesel taxes and registration fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192026	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192027	I fully agree that this is a great exercise. When the SF sat in government, we did try it too, so it is not at all to say that it is an easy exercise at all but the years go by, and it will not be easier or cheaper, and we still have to live up to some climate targets in the transport sector, both for our own sake and because we have promised it to the international community. But you make it harder for yourself if you say that those with the most expensive petrol cars are not allowed to pay any more. I actually agree with the tax minister that the stair model is possible, so that those with the most expensive electric cars do not have to pay, that is to say they are completely exempt. But we do need to be birth aiders on this for a period of time, and that is why we need, I think, to spend some money and redistribute within the car system in order to achieve some of these goals. Other countries are sorry, President-in-Office, this is the last thing that has set a few milestones, saying 50,000, 100,000, etc., and creating a dynamic system that does not promise duty-free forever. There are also road pricing • there are many options. Yeah, that was mostly a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192145	Well, I totally agree that we have to do some birth care, but we have to do it wisely, and that's why we have to ask these wise heads of the Commission to make their assessment of how we can do it. In Norway, I believe, this has been done unwisely. Norway ends up burning in with some very, very expensive electric cars, where in a few years' time the owner of them will have an outdated technology that is worth nothing and with a great loss for them and a great loss for Norwegian society, both for the Treasury and for the economy. They can then afford it in Norway, but it is really money that I would rather spend on some other things in Denmark. That is why this debate is very much about how much birth aid is needed and where we need to take action. Now we're putting on the short track with this proposal, which is supported, and on the long run the Commission comes with their recommendations, and then we need to find a long-term solution not only for birth aid, but to make sure that what to say, the green car park is going to grow, so that we reach the target set by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192242	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181211192259	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 12 December 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
