ParlaMint-DK_20181122100022	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100033	The item listed as No. 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100045	Martin Lidegaard (RV) has applied for leave from 26 November 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100112	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Radical Left in North Zealand's Storkreds, Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 26 November 2018 on the occasion of Martin Lidegaard's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100139	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100207	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100225	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100252	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100323	It is, of course, the bill on these far-reaching matters which concerns the general housing sector. I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100328	We're gonna need some quiet in the hall. The rapporteur is on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122100334	I'd like to congratulate you on your victory, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. A barn gate has been opened for the privatisation of general housing, which is built in the community and is now in danger of being privatised. After two amendments adopted at second reading, we have had a committee reading in spite of what was voted in the Parliamentary Chamber and then there are a number of opinions from the parties on the amendments that are. I think it is a little thought-provoking that, like the members of the Social Democratic Party, they fully welcome the intention of this bill to combat these parallel societies, and I think it is actually interesting to see how parallel societies are. Are they in Sundparken in Horsens? I didn't see that when I visited them. I also find it interesting to see what the researchers say about this. Among other things: one could read yesterday in an article that there are no ghettos in Denmark based on a research definition of the concept. The use of the ghetto concept leads to increased stigmatisation of the areas sought, which in itself has a negative effect and in some cases directly contributes to the problems, as there is no evidence that demolition, expropriation, abandonment, the sale of general family homes solves social problems or reduces crime and provides greater security. There are no reasons, evidence or research to support that 60%. demolition, decommissioning leads to what has been intended. On the other hand, there is evidence that demolition is spreading the problems. There is therefore research evidence that the demolition, expropriation, decommissioning or sale of housing in the stigmatised residential areas spread and move the problems to other similar areas. Local networks and social capital are being destroyed, which counteracts solutions to the social problems that have been politically signalled that they want to remedy. I think it is interesting when researchers so clearly clarify what they see as the problem in this legislation, and that is why I do not really think that the Social Democrats' pleasure that they have now taken part in two amendments is holding water because in the six residential areas to which the amendments refer is that they have these so-called parallel societies? Is that what characterises Sundparken in Horsens? No, it is, in fact, that there are a lot of people without work who live in that area and who should be helped to get a job. The Enhedslisten notes that in the course of this discussion of the bill two amendments have been made, and we have found through this committee that it is quite by chance that you choose to make a cut at 2,100 residents, and then there are six residential areas which have the possibility of applying for a derogation, and the six areas are Munkebo in Kolding, Motalavej in Slagelse, Korskærparken in Fredericia, Agervang in Holbæk, Sundparken in Horsens and Finlandsparken in Vejle. We have also been made clear that, if a derogation is made, it cannot be achieved that general family housing should not be abolished in the six areas at all. That is one of the answers that has come through this committee procedure, and that is how it was good to have a committee procedure. What is stated in the text of the draft law is that you can imagine a derogation where you only have to be reduced to 50 or 60%. general family residences. But there is therefore no possibility of making a local solution, where one looked at the area and found that here we do not have parallel societies, and we have therefore come to the conclusion, in cooperation with the housing association and the municipality, that one should make a plan in which one does not sell or tear down good general family homes. Is this such a good family home? Yes, when you look at these areas, it is characteristic that these are areas where three-digit millions of dollars have been spent on renovating the homes. It is therefore money that the residents have saved up, it is money that has come from the Landsbygningsfonden, which is the common savings of the residents, and then a renovation has been approved and has come to have some better housing, and then there comes a bill that changes that reality and which can result in us having 16 areas in Denmark where you end up with the residents' homes being demolished. That's what I think is deeply concerned about this bill. If it is the case that amendments to the bill have been made, as has happened lately, it would have been more reasonable to have made it as a general derogation, that one had had the opportunity, after a dialogue with the municipality and housing association, to come to the conclusion that here we do not have a parallel society, and therefore one should not tear down so many homes or sell so many homes. But I understand that some politicians are happy with this proposal. I understand that the Liberal Alliance is pleased with this, because it is a barn door for a solution, if you are to comply with the law, to sell housing. I find it quite incomprehensible that the Social Democrats and the SF are involved in this bill. Basically, the two parties should be in a completely different place, outside these agreements, so there was hope that, after an election by a different majority, we could change it. Now, instead of this parallel society agreement, we're heading towards the dismantling of good family homes. I think this is a difficult matter because it is as if the Constitution does not apply to people living in general housing. It is a clear proof that if a majority wants to trump something over with the people who live in those areas, they do so. I have had many comments in these processes and I do not think there are answers to many of the questions. One of the statements is that the majority are creating problems rather than solving them. Another question: where are the poorest people going to live? Are there other social problems that can be solved by tearing down housing? Where are the people going to move, who have paid for the renovations and who are now having their homes removed? Fortunately, there is a fight out there that continues, and I think that there is a very good event in Aarhus on 30 November. It's the day before this law comes into force. It is the day before that a new so-called ghetto list is published. On that list, there may be new residential areas that come on because what is the effect in the municipalities is that when you do not want to point out to these 16 residential areas, the municipality will point out people without work to other residential areas, and thus there is a snowball effect that can lead to other areas coming on the so-called ghettoists, and if you have stood there long enough, you are a so-called hard ghetto, and then you get into standing there where you need to privatise good general housing or tear them down. It's a completely unfair way to go. The Enhedslisten believes that there are some areas where there are social problems and, of course, the focus should be on solving the social problems. There are some areas where too many residents are affected by unemployment and it has been shameful to participate in these negotiations up to the agreement against parallel societies that there was so little focus on how to help these people. The only thing we focused on was whether to prevent someone on cash benefits from moving into certain areas, or whether to take half of their cash assistance from them, instead of focusing on the fact that perhaps in the Ministry of Employment there could be resources that could indicate how to make a good job effort in these areas. Something's happening in the municipalities. I know, for example, that... In Sundparken you have moved out a mobile job center where you sort of advise the residents. But you're just in the situation that when they've been on these fucking lists long enough, you come up with a date where you have to make a 60 percent settlement plan. This is the first time that we have been able to make progress in the area of social housing, regardless of what we are doing in order to increase the level of employment. So one can safely say that this is legislation that is really retroactive because it is based on old data, and I do not think it is worthy of the Folketing to pass such laws. The action in Aarhus on 30 November is, in fact, a human chain that gathers and stretches its hand out between people and where you create a human chain between Gellerup and Bispehaven, which are two areas in Aarhus, which faces the city council tearing down 1,000 homes. It is also very special to see that there are municipalities implementing agreements before this bill is adopted today and before it comes into force on 1 December. I think that is a completely wrong way to go. Instead, the municipalities should have waited for Parliament to adopt something at the third reading here today. I also find it thought-provoking when I get letters from residential areas where people have been asking the residents, and then I receive a good postcard saying that 1,473 residents are protesting against this legislation and that they are not going to move. I can only call for the protests to continue against this bill, even after it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101335	Thank you, and that kept the speaking time very good. On the other hand, I would just like to say that the word cursed is an expression which is at least on the limit of what we use in here. Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101346	Thank you. It's not surprising that Enhedslisten doesn't vote for this. It can't surprise anyone. However, I have to say that something is being said that is a little nonsense from the platform. It is the most recent available figures that are the basis of the package that comes here, but it is not all the figures you can just get from day to day. But the latest available figures are those that are throughout all the way through. Then I have to say that this is not a new problem. It is true that a great deal of money has been spent on investing in these areas, but has it solved the problem? That is precisely the problem, that is, it does not have it. We just haven't moved on. You do a lot in the municipalities. You do this by moving into these areas, but that's exactly the problem... why should the municipality move into these parallel areas of society? Why is it not the case that parallel societies dissolve and move to the surrounding society? It is in this that the problem is and that is why we feel it is necessary to take some other steps and some other tools into use. I just need to hear that it must be the first question... whether Enhedslisten will give a guarantee that you can remedy the problem with these areas by not doing anything, which has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101455	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101457	It's not true that you haven't done anything. After all, the report from BL, which came to the housing rapporteurs a few days ago, looks at all the areas and looks at what action is being taken. Lots of social bets have been made that have worked out there. If you look at the young people who grow up in these so-called hard ghettos, their educational rate is in the right direction. Then I think we should also bear in mind that there are some people who have fled from war and who cannot just go out and take a job. So it is inconceivable that we come to the conclusion that everyone in these vulnerable residential areas has a job. So for that, whether the statisticians like are based on old data. Well, the problem is, you can end up on these lists without knowing you're going to end up on them. And then I think that the municipalities should have more instruments. I think it would be very good, for example, if the municipalities had the right to authorise private rentals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101558	Thank you. Mrs. Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101601	It's true that a lot has been done for decades, and there's not really any of that that's been batting, because we're still experiencing these parallel societies. After all, we have not eliminated the problem. I saw the other day on television that a resident said that if it had been known that this demolition would be an opportunity because it is just one tool among many, it should be remembered that we would probably have done more. In fact, I found that a little disturbing, that is to say, something really needs to be done before you really want to move. And will the rapporteur not confirm that there are a number of tools that can be used? Nobody tells you to tear down, no one. You have a number of tools to use to avoid these parallel societies and make sure to support and spread it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101640	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101642	It is true that there are a number of tools, but it is not everywhere in the country that you can convert general family housing into youth housing, because there is no need for this. There isn't in Fredericia, there isn't in Korsør. Can you convert it into old-age housing? Is it not quite ridiculous if, in the last five years, total renovations of housing have been made, and that they should then be rebuilt just because there is a majority in the Folketing who do not like a particular population group? That is the case. This is guided by the fact that the Danish People's Party does not want integration. You don't want to integrate these people. It's pervading the laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101714	Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101718	Thank you. I would like to refer to the rapporteur's remarks on demolitions, because the rapporteur makes it sound as if this draft law is starting a practice of demolishing general housing, despite the fact that there have been general housing demolitions in Denmark since 1993 for various reasons. But it is actually the case that in many places it is used as part of a plan to have a change of resident composition, to get a more mixed neighborhood. And it's actually the case, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party companions themselves have helped to adopt demolitions. A former member of the parliament, who is president of the Gellerup Park, has made a plan for the Gellerup Park, where he has adopted the demolition of five housing blocks. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party colleague in the City Council of Høje Taastrup Municipality has voted through a plan to tear down 188 homes in Taastrupgaard. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party partner in Odense City Council has agreed to a plan to reduce by 1,000 general family homes in Vollsmose. Can we not get some direction on: What does Enhedslisten really mean about demolitions? For it is as if one in the Enhedslisten, when one is standing in here at Christiansborg, is in principle and strictly opposed to it, but when it hits reality, one still votes for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101842	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122101844	The Enhedslisten is very much for the resident democracy, and if you find in a housing department that you have a building mass that is not worth renovating, but instead had to be demolished, I am completely open to the fact that it is the right solution to be decided locally in the housing association. I am fully aware that housing does not last forever, and with what has been built right after the Second World War there are many problems, and the housing associations can find out that without Mr. Kaare Dybvad and others in the Folketing must dictate that 40%. is a sacred number and that you have to wipe out 60%. of the general family housing. Because that is the case. If you just take Sundparken in Horsens what's gonna happen there? There are only general family homes, and recently it has been renovated. A lot of money has been spent on that, a three-digit million dollars, and then Mr. Kaare Dybvad and the majority of the parliament until there must be only 40 per cent. general family residences. And it's hard to get around demolitions, because what else do you have to do? Then you have to meet the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and the Liberal Alliance and sell some of them. Is it the policy of the Social Democratic Party that it is a good idea to sell ordinary family homes which have been built by the housing movement and which the residents have thus helped to finance? Then Mr. Kaare Dybvad in an alliance with the Liberal Alliance privatise them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102002	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102004	I think I'll just cut the last part off, and then I'll come to the conclusion that Enhedslisten thinks you can make demolitions if only the residents agree that in all these residential areas it's okay to do demolitions if they're adopted by the resident democracy. Okay, but what's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102027	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102031	The problem is here, sir. Kaare Dybvad and the majority of the parliament come and dictate that you have to go down on the fact that there is only 40 per cent. general family homes in some areas. And how do you solve it? How are you supposed to solve it in Sundparken? Do you have to tear down what you just renovated? And then it'll look good, sir. Kaare Dybvad to come up here on the platform if he wants to defend his politics, instead of sitting down in the back row and being a coward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102056	We must be careful not to let emotions run away in such a debate. It must be objective, and one does not accuse here of being cowards from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Mattia Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102110	Thank you. I asked for the floor because I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur troubleatize that with this bill we actually want to spread the problems with all the initiatives that have been adopted. I was a little over that, because that is exactly what the purpose is: not to concentrate on the social and integration challenges that we have in our society, but to ask the entire Danish society to play a part in fulfilling social and integration tasks, so that it is not the same day institutions, the same schools, the same community, the same football clubs and the same scout associations that have to carry out the entire integration task. So when Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that they will come down to the municipality and be assigned a dwelling in another residential area, then I say: yes, that is exactly what the whole purpose is, namely to ensure that it is not the same few residential units that bear most of the social burdens in this society. How can Enhedslisten be against that? This whole package is about spreading the challenges, so we don't concentrate, and we don't collect them. Doesn't Enhedslisten agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102215	You can look at the figures from Aarhus and see what happens when it is so that the municipality is not allowed to assign housing to some specific areas. They then point to other areas. This means that there is a significant risk that in Aarhus there are some residential areas with over 1,000 residents who come on the various lists. There is also a risk that there are some shadow figures that are totally overlooked, because the housing associations with less than 1,000 residents also have social problems. The municipality of Aarhus has seen statistics of how bad it looks and it actually looks quite bad. So there are sort of some problems that you move around with. I think that the very best thing would be to make an extra effort to help the residents of Bispehaven and Gellerup-Toveshøj with an employment effort. That would be the best thing to do. But the problem here is that with your intention to fight parallel societies together with the Danish People's Party, you end up in something where you are going to tear down housing or privatise housing. That is the part that I am very much opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102319	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102321	Now the rapporteur mentions Aarhus. I come from Aarhus myself and know that town pretty well. I know what's going on in Gellerup. I think it is an excellent overall plan, which also means that housing is being demolished. There is not a single person at Aarhus City Hall who wants something bad for the citizens of Bispehaven or Gellerup. They want something good for those people. That is why they want to spread the challenges, so that the entire municipality of Aarhus carries the integration task and the social task. And we know from the researchers, whom the rapporteur is so pleased to point out that children who grow up in communities where the majority of families go to work and speak Danish are doing better. So what's the problem? Why is it that Enhedslisten shakes his hand when it becomes legislation? As long as it's just a toast talk, you support spreading the challenges, but when it comes to legislation, you shake your hand. I think that today we should be proud of the Danish Parliament and I think that Enhedslisten should consider whether it is sensible to spread the insecurity that it creates when it is said that many homes need to be demolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102415	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102417	Well, it's calculated by among other things. The housing company's Landsorganisation, that with this we risk 11 000 fewer general family homes. And some of the homes can be privatised, and then Ole Birk Olesen is happy, and some of them can be demolished, and then the Danish People's Party is happy. That is the reality we are facing. Then it is important what the people's democracy decides. And in Gjellerup-Toveshøj, the problem is that with the plan that the residents want to make, you don't come down on having 40%. general family residences. It then collides with the bill that the Social Democratic Party will be voting in favour of shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102450	Thank you. And we have to remember that Ole Birk Olesen is called the Minister of Transport. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122102511	It is a third reading of legislative proposals which, to such an extent, save democracy in our general housing, which actually has one of the most important tasks in our society, namely to provide good and cheap housing for those people who may not be able to finance themselves, or for those who just want to contribute to the resident democracy that has developed so many good citizens over the years. I think we are forgetting a little about the fact that what is happening in the general residential areas is sometimes a Sisyfo work, too often, as soon as the residents have received their education, they have been given a job, so they leave for various reasons and, of course, also because we stigmatise the areas, especially in the political debate. Then they bring in some new socially vulnerable citizens and they start their huge work of competence that they have been doing for many years. We sometimes forget to recognise that. I would actually have started the speech by going through all the things that the alternative is unhappy with, but I would rather address Mr. Kaare Dybvads and Mr. Mattias Tesfayes's comments on Enhedslisten at the end. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, together with Kaare Dybvad and with SF recently in Information, has written that it is the development of the Gellerup Park that they have based the parallel society package on. First of all, it is really, really a pity that they are using that argument, because the Gellerup Park, in which I was born and raised, has at no time forced anyone to move. It is true that they have demolished 331 homes. They have done so after conversations with every family, where they have asked if they wanted to move, or they wanted to stay in the area and then they have them refurbished. The homes are not torn down for ideological reasons, as we hear time and time again here in the Folketing, they are torn down for functional reasons. They knew that if they were to open up, if they were to create a city that flourished, they had to have some more highways and they had to be able to attract another segment. So it is not true that they have forced anyone, and I think it is really a pity that both the SF and the Social Democrats believe that they can argue in this way. Secondly, the Gellerup Park does not use the term ghetto. Their director, Keld Laursen, is actually doing a lot of work not to stigmatise 5,000 citizens and lump them together and call them a parallel society or a ghetto, because that is not true either. Grethe, who may have lived there all his life, has worked hard with cleaning, has a low income and only elementary school, bouncing out on two of these statistics, so we choose from the central team to say: That's why we have to tear up to 60%. of the family housing mass down. Grethe has given birth to two children, she has paid taxes all her life, she has had a low income, yes, she has worked hard, and yes, she has a low level of education, and then she is in, she is actually being forced away from her grandchildren. That is what is also the hops here. Then it is said by the SF and the Social Democrats: No, that is not going to happen; there will be a dialogue. Okay, there's going to be a dialogue. I have a quote from yesterday from the director of the Gellerup Park: When the parallel community package was launched from the state team, the city council went completely crazy in Aarhus, completely crazy, and they made a plan over our heads. We were not involved at any time and we cannot meet the requirements that are being made, and we also think it is totally headless. The last thing that's completely headless is I mean. But he, the director, says they went crazy on the city council. So it is not right for the parties to the agreement to say that they will ensure that the municipalities are involved because that has not happened. In Odense, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad refers to, Enhedslisten himself has agreed to an agreement, yes, but in that agreement it is also written that of course citizens must be involved and they must be able to pull the hand brake. Then all of a sudden, we're gonna make a change from here, which means it's not right anymore. We are actually giving the Minister a mandate to be able to saw over any residential area. It is not local involvement; it is not recognition of resident democracy. There is so much research that has been presented in the last few weeks. The main challenges and trends are, and it is not only Danish research, it is international research that shows this, and I would also like to say that to Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye, who says that we need to spread the problems of vulnerable citizens being refocused in residential areas which, both geographically and in terms of socio-economic and ethnic composition, are similar to those they have relocated. This is our knowledge from England, from France and from Denmark. The interaction between social and culturally different residents in the same residential area is limited. So when we move people into other residential areas because they have to get to know people who have a higher social class and higher income, there is not much contact. In a long-term perspective, housing relocation does not lead to a social mix, but instead to a replacement of resourceless population groups with more resourceful groups. I'm not the one who says it, it's the research that says it. And I think it is really, really a pity that we are ignoring that research and empire. I share the intention that we should have mixed residential areas if that makes sense. I share the intention that we should address some challenges in our socially disadvantaged areas. But it is forced relocation, it is forced displacement, it is coercion against 1-year-old children who are going to kindergarten, it is coercion that you cannot move into an area if you have a certain social status or class and I am not in favour of that. I know that there are a great many citizens out in the socially vulnerable residential areas who say: if only there were 60 members of parliament who would today, they could claim the right under section 73 of the Constitution and say that they cannot go in and take private property from these housing companies and tear them down. Why not just one third of the Danish Parliament can stand up and say so so that we can look at the facts so that we can look at the research and the empire again? So this is my appeal to all of you who I know are not freed and have decided and are doing all your other work. But if we could, maybe we should lean on the research and the empire that is, and not stigmatize and pull out those ghetto concepts. We are the only parliament in the world that allows itself to call citizens who are at risk, citizens of parallel societies living in ghettos and we write it down in our agreements. We're the only thing and we adorn ourselves by being open-minded. Sometimes there is a little too much of the emperor's new clothes on our legislation. The alternative cannot support L 38. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103238	There are some brief comments. But I'll call the "A" before we go further, because there are a number of brief comments. I understand that there is also a rapporteur who would like to go on. So it's gonna be a while. But I would ask you to go quietly so that we can continue the brief remarks. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103257	I'd like to start by asking, because I'm not quite sure I understood. The rapporteur refers to some research which says that it is not beneficial to spread citizens who have social challenges, and then the rapporteur says afterwards that the alternative is in favour of spreading citizens who have social challenges. So I have some doubts about what the alternative means.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103320	Thank you for the question. The alternative didn't say that. First of all, I said that what Gellerup Park has done has been voluntary. They've had interviews with every family before they were moved or just the house to the same area. So this is a radically different approach than that we are just saying from in here that people should leave and not have the opportunity to stay in the area. That's what I said. Secondly, I said that we are in favour of a mixed city. This does not mean that we should spread the problems. We can also mix the city by attracting occupations. We can mix the city by, as Aarhus Municipality does, moving 1,100 employees out. We can mix the city in many different ways. But this is a dialogue in which we respect resident democracy, a dialogue in which we respect the fact that we have constitutional rights which I believe are being run over here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103408	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103413	Well, many fine speeches are being made, and there are many fine adjectives. But at some point it also turns into paragraphs, and then we have to decide on it. There are, for example: a proposal that municipalities cannot point people on transfer income into these residential areas. This is the practical way to ensure that housing areas are mixed. So I just have to understand: does the alternative support political decisions that force municipalities not to be able to point citizens on cash and integration benefits into these toughest areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103454	If, with this question, the rapporteur tries to legitimise the agreement and believes that if the alternative can nod to one piece of legislation that we think is sensible, then we cannot stand and speak against L 38, then I think that is a very strange way of arguing. I have just told the rapporteur what I think about forced-based legislation, which may be contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103522	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103525	Now the rapporteur said that the city council in Aarhus went crazy. I fully agree with that. But the pity was that the Councillor of the Alternative was involved in that crazy act, so only Enhedslisten was against what they adopted in this way. With regard to what is contained in the Supplementary Report of the Alternative, I find it interesting that you have brought something about discrimination and racism. Some questions have also been asked as to whether this type of legislation can be adopted. It is as if, on the part of the system, if you treat these areas equally badly, you can afford to do something discriminatory. But we are faced here with the fact that if there are any residential areas with more than 1,000 inhabitants, where there are more than 50 per cent. with a non-western background, they come on a ghetto list, and this can result in them entering a process where they can end up on a hard ghetto list that has consequences for the residents. Does the rapporteur agree that we have something here that violates the principle of equality for those citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103631	Thank you for the question. In relation to the first: Yes, Å is in the agreement in Aarhus, and I myself have criticised this, both internally and externally. An apology is that they were required to do so. I do not think that is correct. But, yeah, unfortunately, they're in. In relation to the principle of equality: I have just put a question to the Ministry of Transport to which I have not yet received an answer. When we ask that people with a non-Western background alone are the ones who make up a hard ghetto list, we could replace that phrase with women. If there's more than 50 percent. women, they're going on something or Jews for that matter. Interestingly enough, it is believed that ethnicity is the only thing. I know, as I said recently, more citizens with minority backgrounds, who are researchers who are doctors who are self-employed, who are job-creating than I know journalists who write books about how badly integration is going. I think it is really, really a pity that we from the state are talking so much down about citizens with minority backgrounds. So I certainly believe that there may be problems in terms of discrimination and equality with that legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103744	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103746	Well there is no city council nor does Aarhus City Council have to take decisions until the legislation is passed. So that argument doesn't hold water. But there will of course be a number of city councils faced with the fact that they are about to draw up a settlement plan for the first half of next year. I think this is important. We have legislation here that does not take into account the fact that in these so-called hard ghetto areas there are a number of areas where 75% live. Danish citizens, who are then subjected to some kind of punishment, where the intention has actually been to intervene against some others, about which there are some prejudices. Does the rapporteur agree that this legislation has been a driving force?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103833	I have to admit that I simply do not know what has been the driving force behind this legislation. Sometimes I think it is gut feeling, and the latest reply from the Minister for Transport also shows that there is no research to support whether it should be a 30-, 40- or 50-percent requirement in relation to the dismantling of general family homes in order to achieve a result and the goal that has been set. I am surprised that this is the best answer we get, that it is by the sources that we get the best answer when we know that there is so much other research that supports that we have to include that we have to have social stakes, otherwise we just push the problems around the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103911	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122103914	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, which referred to my own residential area, namely Aarhus and Gellerup, in which I myself lived. I share the rapporteur's view that the overall plan is a very good plan and also a success. That is why I am a little concerned that the rapporteur is doing a lot to say that things are being pulled over people's heads and that they are being forced to do a lot of things. Can the rapporteur not recognise that the legislation is precisely based on the fact that housing associations and municipalities must work together to draw up the plans and that it is a prerequisite for the financing of the plans that housing organisations and municipalities, and thus also the local democracy, are involved in the agreements to be concluded, then the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104005	I thank you for the question and that we can hope so, but that it is not me, but the director of the Gellerup Park who says that they are being run over. They're the ones who say they're not getting involved. They are the ones who say that the plan presented by a unanimous council is a plan presented by a city council that has gone crazy. I'm not the one who says that. So I do not see that the intention of the agreement has been recognised and respected. Nor do I see why we should then have an amendment which specifically provides a mandate for them to simply be run over if there is no common ground. Can the rapporteur perhaps clarify why that amendment should be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104044	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104046	I think I would just like to conclude that the rapporteur has noted that it is in fact the intention of the law that this is the way it should be. However, I have another question because the rapporteur made a great deal of explaining what Grethe's situation was like, Grethe, who is a cleaning assistant. Now I am the former chairman of the FOA, so I am a little concerned about whether the rapporteur actually thinks that a cleaning assistant earns less than 55%. of what the average is for revenue in the city in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104114	I can't support those numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104121	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104124	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur for going up and speaking from here. First of all, I would like to say that the Constitution is mentioned here. I think that a very thorough and thorough note has been made by the Parliamentary Legal Secretariat on the constitutional aspects of this discussion, and I would certainly urge the rapporteur to read this, because then I do not think he will be in any doubt as much about where we stand in this context. But what I really want to ask is whether the alternative is against saying to some groups: you cannot move into, for example, the Gellerup Park, because we want a more mixed housing arrangement. Is the alternative against the practice that they say, for example in the Mjølner Park today, that you must have a job or be in training to move in so that you have priority to move into the residential area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104225	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104227	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104230	But if the alternative is not against it, then it is a strange way to problematize that you set limits for some people to move in and that others cannot move in. If you mean like Enhedslisten, who has developed this whole flexible rental tool, that it's a good idea to manage who moves into an area, what's the problem? Why, then, is it that some people are not allowed to move in at all, and why is it that there are some groups that you would like not to move into these areas, when you believe in principle that it is okay to do so at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104307	Now the rapporteur says the same thing as his colleague, who used to use legislation to say, 'Well, then you cannot stand here and problematize the profound change that exists in general housing on the basis of L 38'. I do not think that is a valid argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104329	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks, but Mr. Kaare Dybvad has asked to come up as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122104350	Thank you for that, President. Now it was said that I was a coward, and when you come from West Zealand, you can't let it sit on you, so I'd better go up and say something. It will be difficult to see whether this legislation is in line with the social democracy's historic housing policy, and I would like to start by saying a few words about that. It was the case that the Social Democratic Party adopted the first law on reorganisation in 1939. That was among other things. the law used to clear the District of Borgergade and Adelgade in Inner City in Copenhagen. It was a neighborhood which according to the city doctor in Copenhagen was inhabited by an average of 26 people on 40 square meters of housing, and it was also a neighborhood where Enhedslisten's mother party, DKP, when it was cleared, was against clearing it. DKP then spoke of worker deportation. Then, in 1959, a reorganisation law was made, called the best law in the world. It was the one used to clear the Black Square in Copenhagen, and it was the one used to clear what was called the Barracks, in Horsens and a lot of other untimely residential areas, where the general problem was not necessarily the standard of construction, but in fact more the collection of social problems in one place in a city. So when something was called the Black Square in Copenhagen, it was because on the social services overview map of the City of Copenhagen you had a pin for every child's case, and the pins were black, and in that area on Nørrebro it was completely black because there were children's cases in almost every rise. So what was done was to clear the residential area, build new homes and open up some other features inside the area, so that it would not forever be a place where the most socially burdened citizens of Copenhagen were gathered. At the time, VS voted against, and DKP voted blankly, but it was therefore opposed with much the same arguments: that you did not have anywhere where people could live. Then, in the 1980s, we adopted a law on urban renewal, such as: was used to renew an area on Vesterbro in Copenhagen and in many provincial towns. Vesterbro was then called Denmark's largest slum district, and it also happened at that time during great discussion. The criticism was among other things.: Where will people live? Can you afford to live in the new homes? But the essence and result is that you've got an attractive neighborhood at Vesterbro in Copenhagen, just as you've got it in the Black Square, and just like you've got it in Borgergade and Adelgade. What goes down through the historical tradition is that the Social Democratic Party has stood on the right to change a residential area because there are some general social problems that are concentrated in the area and because we have the basic view that the concentration of social problems is increasing social problems. The criticism has always been from the bourgeois side that you do not want to spend money on it, the criticism has always been from Enhedslisten and Enhedslisten's parent parties, that it was working deportation, that it was impossible for people to find a place to live, that you set the rents too violently, and in this way there is nothing new in that we disagree on this matter. But actually I had imagined that in the Enhedslisten, as you have also gone through where you have had a person, an honorary man like Mikkel Warming, who has developed the tool flexible rental so would also calibrate little after the time in which we live. But today we are facing challenges in the neighbourhoods where the weakest in our society live, and we do not believe in social democracy that it is an advantage to grow up in a neighbourhood where there are many social problems and where there are many integration problems. We do not believe that a child of non-Western parents has an advantage in going to Tingbjerg School, where almost one hundred percent of the students who start there, like they do not have Western parents. We do not believe that integration can take place if there is nothing to integrate into, as there is not, for example, in Tingbjerg. On the other hand, we believe that the driver's daughter must go to school with the lawyer's son, they must play football together, they must have a daily life together, and that is what we think this plan can help. We believe that you can build condos in Mjølnerparken, and for the money you get to sell something in Mjølnerparken, you can build common homes in Nordhavn or in other neighborhoods that are otherwise too expensive to build general homes in. In this way, mixed housing areas are guaranteed, which, in the context of the social democracy, is an absolutely essential condition for us to have a welfare society in the future as well. If it is the case that welfare is the only thing you can get down to the municipality that you have to talk to a municipal employee about, then there is no real welfare. What makes our welfare society functional is that we have a civil society, that we have football trainers, that we have school teachers, that we have educators, that we have volunteer craftsmen who take inappropriate young people into their communities because they want to make a difference because they have a neighbourly love for the people they meet in their daily lives. And without it, the welfare society does not exist. And we think this is difficult to look at in those areas where there are the greatest social burdens. Now I mentioned Tingbjerg, another example could have been Vollsmose or Gellerupparken. It is difficult to create the social change, to have the classmate effect that we know makes a difference, not just for the weakest pupils but especially for the weakest pupils, but which in general raises the student stock and makes them better qualified by going to school and having better conditions to get out and get a job and have a normal life afterwards. So it is being asked, and I think that is actually a relevant objection: are too many homes being torn down? The answer is that it depends very much on how to adopt it locally. In the residential areas of Gellerupparken, Bispehaven, Vollsmose, Taastrupgaard and Tingbjerg you are already on the way with plans to change the residential areas. These are areas which have 27,000 out of the 46,000 inhabitants that are included in these 16 residential areas. And if you look at what has been adopted there, it is about 1,200 homes that are either to be demolished or sold. So when the rapporteurs come up here and say that 11 000 homes need to be removed, I cannot make it go up. If plans have already been made in the areas comprising more than half of the residents and those plans cover only 1,200 demolitions or sales, this is equivalent to the fact that all of the other dwellings on this list are to be demolished. I guess nobody really believes that. If we then look at the other 11 areas that are about to make development plans, six of the areas have been granted a derogation from this 40-percent requirement. So they're nowhere near having to demolish 60%. There are other areas that do not have an exemption • it could be Stengårdsvej in Esbjerg, it could be Skovparken in Kolding • but also here you have the opportunity to make some other types of accommodation and get construction in between and ensure that you don't necessarily have to tear down or have to sell. I really think, like my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned that one also has to ask: Who is it that creates the fear here? Are we predicting that the plans that will be made in the residential areas will correspond roughly to the plans already made in the residential areas I mentioned: Tingbjerg, Gellerupparken, Vollsmose, Taastrupgaard and Bispehaven? We predict that it will be about the same. These plans have been adopted with large and broad political support... The Enhedslisten is included in many of the agreements, the Alternative is included in several of the agreements, virtually all the other parties are with the locals. So when we say in the Social Democratic Party that we imagine that the other residential areas will make plans that are similar to them, the figure does not end with the need to demolish 11,000 homes or something similar to that. It ends up with a situation where you can convert into old people's homes in many places and convert into young people's homes and, in fact, end up tearing down very few homes. If you read the report previously mentioned from the National Association of Housing Companies, which was published earlier this week, then that is their conclusion. If you go down and look at where it is you have trouble risking demolition, they say: it is in Agervang, it is in Sundparken, it is in Finland's park. These are the three points which are mentioned: concrete figures. These are three places already covered by the derogation that we adopted earlier this week. So I think it is quite serious that those who oppose this package, and it is quite really that you are, and I am not surprised that Enhedslisten is opposed, or insofar as the Alternative has to think about whether the purpose is to inflate a scare campaign against the people who live in these residential areas, where reasonable solutions can actually be found locally between the municipality and the housing company, as has already been done in five of these residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105337	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are six members of parliament who have asked for brief comments. If anyone is considering a rapporteur's speech, it would be good to know that for the sake of when people should be called down. But for the time being we will take the six brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105354	Thank you very much. And thank you for taking the platform... that's all that was missing, you might say, but that's fine. I think that the rapporteur is a little nearer to falsifying history when it comes to the renovation of the Black Square. What happened there was that general housing was built, that there were more general housing than there were before. In this case, that's also why the Liberal Alliance is excited about this. The opposite is happening; there we go in and tear down public housing or sell it to big investors, who can then rent it out to those who can afford to pay for something like this. That is the reality, so we should not just stick to the truth when we use historical parallels. What's relevant here is that it's about some people. Yesterday I saw a video that AKB had made, where there are a number of older residents out in Sjælør Boulevard saying: We must move from here, where we have lived for decades, from our grandchildren. Well, that's what this is about. And it is good that the rapporteur will stand up here, but I also hope that the rapporteur can look the people in the eye on the day that the bulldozers hit out there or where these big investors kick out the original residents in order to sell the homes to someone who has more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105503	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105504	Well, I would like to say that I have already been to Sjælør Boulevard to talk to the residents out there, so the rapporteur does not have to demand that of me. But with regard to the Black Square, I would like to say that I do not think the central point of this discussion is whether it is common or not common. So, the rapporteur's own parent parties voted against building in general then. Do I also have to shut them down to vote against it because we voted to build in general? What this is all about is: do you collect the social problems in one area of the city? Social democracy is, in fact, equally critical, whether it is private rental, general housing or cooperative housing in which people live. In the past it was at Vesterbro or in the Black Square, but now it is in some general residential areas that there is a need to change the composition of the residents, which, incidentally, many of Enhedslisten's own politicians are also involved in around the world, and they should be very praised for that. It is a fundamental task if we want to preserve our welfare societies that we have mixed residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105605	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105606	Of course you have to try to mix the city more. The problem here is that the Social Democratic Party only looks at one part. One would like to go out into the general residential areas with the bulldozers and force them with threats of expropriation, but when it comes to the private landlords, one will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal to give the authorizing right to the municipalities so that they could assign some of these people to some of the slightly wealthier neighborhoods. That's the problem. It is the fact that the Social Democratic Party joins with the rest of the Folketing and treats people in general housing as second-class citizens, to whom you can do something quite different and make quite different demands than, for example, those in general housing. the landlords of private housing. If you really wanted mixed cities, you should be prepared to point out where the residents are going, other than the ordinary homes. But that is not what we want to do, because there we have other people on our toes, some of them who may have a little more resources and a little more networks than the people who live in general housing areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105703	I would say that residents of general residential areas are first-class citizens and they must receive the best possible treatment. There's no difference for us, not at all, compared to where you live. What we are looking at is the concentration of social problems. I think Pelle Dragsted should try to get to grips with this with private housing, because it has actually been tried when a Social Democratic Housing Minister, Ole Løvig Simonsen, was in office back in 1996. And the result was that there were some very high prices for the agreements they had, among other things. in Randers Municipality, to direct people to private rental. And I and the Social Democrats would like to take a look at that, in other words, what can be done today. But to say that we have never tried it and to say that it is not something that the Social Democrats have also tried to use to create mixed residential areas is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105751	Thank you. And then it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105755	Well, it is true that there may have been something that Social Democracy did in the 1950s that was sensible. I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad for not being a coward today and for accepting my call to go on the platform. And then I would like to regret that I did not mention SF in the same sentence, because it was unreasonable to hang out the Social Democracy alone in order not to go on the platform. I think there was a little too much recycling in the rapporteur's speech here. I think that when we look at these areas that are going on, we should be careful just to say that you can do as in Gellerup-Toveshøj or in Vollsmose. For there are therefore some residential areas where there is a possibility of building something new that may not be common dwellings. And then we have some housing associations like Bispehaven in Aarhus, which are closely built and where you can't just place a pension fund building in the middle of it all. I think that flexibility is prevented when you come up with a sacred number, i.e. max. 40% general family residences. That's what Enhedslisten is so strongly opposed to. Can the rapporteur not understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122105912	Well, in the Gellerup Park, you're down to 30%. general family residences. And it's a 30 per cent plan that was originally adopted by Mr. Keld Albrechtsen, who has been in the same parliamentary group as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is in. So I can't understand that very, very fundamental opposition to a percentage. But I can understand it, as sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that the solutions should not be the same everywhere. Of course, there is not the same demand to build homes in Korsør as there is in Copenhagen; of course there is not the same opportunity to build on outside areas in Bispehaven as there is in Tingbjerg in Copenhagen. And, of course, there must be the possibility of creating local solutions. We now have exemptions for 6 out of the 11 areas which do not already have a plan. And there you will have a very, very large degree of self-determination over how you want to change this. You will have very great opportunities and very far-reaching powers to decide for yourself in municipalities and housing companies how to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110014	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110022	Well, then let's take Sjælør Boulevard, who has just been renovated and which we have both been visiting. The reality is that they have just renovated the homes, and if they are at risk of being on this list of hard ghettos five years in a row, then they are about to have to reduce general family homes. And with the amendment that has been adopted, they must then reduce to perhaps only 60%. It is therefore quite far-reaching for the elderly who live out there. And I don't think that the older people are going to live on, hopefully going out and taking up further training, and that they can sort of break the statistics for the hard ghetto. Well, we have some problems where these ghetto criteria are unfair. Can the rapporteur not see that there can be some more housing associations that are facing major challenges in reducing newly renovated housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110101	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110105	An adjustment was made in the Ministry before the summer holiday, changing the crime criterion because it had so far been calculated with different figures in the numerator and denominator. So far it had been calculated that residential areas counted criminals down to 15 years, compared with a national average which was down to 18 years. And when you recognise that difference, Sjælør Boulevard isn't on this list because they fall under the crime criterion. So I really think it would be more real if Enhedslisten spent the time discussing the areas that are actually on this list and have been committed to reducing the share to 40%.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110143	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110152	I am a little disappointed that the Social Democrats have turned in a completely different direction and now say that it is as good to develop private housing as it is to develop general housing. I thought that the general housing movement was just set in motion by the workers' movement and others in order to also create a democratic way of living where residents had influence and both had access to live there and to be flexible and could move to other places without having to sell or have a large fortune. I would therefore recommend that this possibility be guaranteed in the future. You mention Vesterbro, but it is becoming an area where you have to bring a rather large wallet to get in at all yes, the whole of Copenhagen is now a place where I would not have been able to afford to settle if I was not fortunate enough to live in one of the Parliament's small apartments. After all, this is also a democratic issue, and I believe that the reorganisation laws were first and foremost adopted because they wanted to solve some health problems at the time. There is no problem in the working class or others living together in great concentration, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110258	See, that's the thinking that you're thinking, among other things. Made the brain hemorrhage called the Finger Plan on the basis of. It was based on an idea that the working class would live in certain cities west of Copenhagen, and then the middle class, the functional class and the upper class would live in certain cities north of Copenhagen. And it is clear that in 1947, when the Finger Plan was drawn up, a Mr. Christian Juhl and said: The working class will just live together, then everything will be fine. However, what we can see now is that a very large classmate effect is achieved by the fact that there are mixed residential areas, that there are mixed schools where one meets one another crosswise, and we in the Social Democratic Party insist that it is enormously crucial to bring about that change. So says Mr. Christian Juhl, that I should think that it was better to build public housing, and I do so too, there is no doubt about that. My heart is with the general housing companies. I think they are doing an excellent job, and I am proud that over a third of the homes in my home town, Holbæk, are common. I think it's excellent. Let's finally build some more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110357	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110400	Then we must also dare at Frederiksberg, in Gentofte and elsewhere to say: Then we expropriate the villas and build common homes. Otherwise, there will be no balance, so you just throw people out of some places where they like both living today, but maybe sometimes also have to stay because there is no viable alternative. Because we also make rich men's ghettoes if we are to use such an expression, where, moreover, there is also much crime in that part of society and even worse crime than the one discussed in connection with the general housing areas. I think that the Social Democratic Party in this matter confuses social and ethnic issues in a very, very unpleasant way. And that's what I'd like to see changed so that you don't break down good homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110446	Well, that's both ethnic and social problems. That is, of course, the whole essence of this, namely that there are both problems with people who have difficulty getting to work and who have a low income, but that there are also problems with the fact that there are some places where people are poorly integrated. Well, these two things work at the same time. And I would say that we can easily find some technical solutions and sit down and look at how to build more general housing in some of the municipalities and some of the neighbourhoods that do not already have it. But we must also stick to and acknowledge that the Danish people have voted a bourgeois majority in this Parliament, and as long as there is, nothing like that will be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110529	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110539	Thank you. The rapporteur is close to actually answering my question, which is quite simple: where are these people going to live? I believe that there are a great many people living in general residential areas, vulnerable residential areas, who know very well that where they live, it is not entirely problem-free, who face problems in everyday life and who would really like a helping hand to overcome language difficulties, crime problems, lack of jobs, social problems, but who simply do not understand how it can be a helping hand from the Folketing, that they simply say that there should be no housing here, that they should either be sold from or demolished without pointing out where the people should move. For the Social Democrats must surely know that there are some people in this country who can't just go out and buy themselves a condo that can't just pull 5 million. kr. Out of the pocket for an apartment in Copenhagen. And no one has answered where those people are going to live if they are not to live in the homes that the Social Democratic Party will now vote for either to be sold off or to be demolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110651	I invite the party leader of the Enhedslisten to read this report from the Housing Society's National Association. It says very specifically that where the number of general family homes has been reduced either by sale or by demolition, municipalities are actually building an equivalent number or more of new general housing. So there's kind of a connection in it. And it's funny, because when I sat and prepared, I thought that I would be required by Enhedslisten to get up here and stand, and then I read a little back in time, and the question that Mrs Pernille Skipper asks about where the poor are going to live is exactly the same question that Enhedslisten has asked every time urban renewal was to be made. Exactly that question asked Gunna Stack in an article in Politiken in 1999, where she wrote: Now a four-bedroom at Vesterbro will cost 3,500 DKK. Where are the poor going to live? Why does the Social Democratic Party not respond to that? So I would have expected it to come, but I think it would have been better if Mrs Pernille Skipper had read what has come from BL.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110750	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110754	But it is unbelievable if it is the same question that we have been asking the Social Democrats for decades that the Social Democrats still cannot answer it. Sir. Kaare Dybvad has referred several times now in this debate to local decisions where Enhedslisten's good city councilmen also help to make decisions to renovate entire residential areas where, for example, some homes are being demolished. But Mr. Kaare Dybvad must recognize that there is a difference between a residential area and the municipality deciding on an overall plan, which among other things. means that you tear down some homes and maybe build some homes somewhere else in a richer part of the municipality, and then that the Folketing brings in bulldozers and has decided that now it has to be demolished and that now it has to be like this. - Sir... Kaare Dybvad not well see the difference between a local decision and a parliamentary decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110858	I understand that Enhedslisten would like all of their members to play here, but I simply have to call in this discussion for those who ask questions to get involved in the situation here too. The Folketing has not decided that any bulldozers should go anywhere. After all, the answer that Mrs Pernille Skipper is asking for is the same answer as always. Social democracy believes that people who have trouble finding a place to live should of course have a place to live. You get a home, and there are plenty of cheap accommodations. And these general residential areas aren't necessarily very cheap. The rent in an area like Mjølnerparken is more expensive than the general rent average in Copenhagen. If you refer to a random residence in Copenhagen for a family who has lived in Mjølnerparken, they will get a cheaper rent. That's the probability.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110941	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122110945	Thank you. I just noticed that the rapporteur said in his speech: is it we who create fear here, or is it actually you others who talk about what is really going on? After all, it is not just in relation to general housing. Are we the ones who create fear? If the fear is that you will not remove a 225 hour rule or a cash aid ceiling etc. etc., and if you do not want to make children feel better in refugee camps, if you want to make a jewelry law, etc., then I think there are a lot of things pointing towards fear. However, my specific question relates to housing and mixed towns. I read out some statistics and the trend is that they refocused in residential areas similar to those from which they came. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111036	Now I didn't quite get the question because of the time here. For example, my father grew up in a general residence in Holbæk in a department where there are four double houses, and there have always lived people who have an ethnic background there, and now I saw the other day when I passed that a Somali family has moved in. I believe that the Somali family, which lives in a general housing department with eight dwellings in row houses in a parcelhouse district in Holbæk, has a much better chance of becoming a full and quite part of Danish society than those who grow up in, for example, Agervang, and that is the essence of us here when you get to a new residential area. I think you have better conditions when you are part of everyday life and are integrated into something.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111121	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. And it's best to start with the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111126	Speaking of ethnicity: When something bones seem to be a so-called hard ghetto in the neighborhood that is made, why is it just ethnicity that is the criterion? Is that what is the hardest burden on Danish society in the view of the rapporteur and the rapporteur? Why is it not crime that makes it a hard ghetto, why is it not employment? Is it the ethnicity that is the greatest threat, or what is the reason for this decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111158	We see it in the Social Democracy in that there are two different challenges in the most vulnerable residential areas that require two different sets of tools. One part is social, whether people are in work, whether there is crime, and the other part is integration. For us it has been important to say that if, when you have an area that is very big social problems in, then on top of it also have integration problems, then there is a need for some more tools than those used when there alone are social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111231	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111247	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for not ignoring the provocation. For it was nothing less than an excellent speech, where many things fell into place, including the historical differences that exist, on being a social democrat and then being a communist or a left-wing socialist. So I would like to thank the rapporteur for that. For an illustration, when we talk about Sjælør Boulevard, who is not even the hardest-pressed area: I went to school on Sjælør Boulevard, in no. 135. Already 40 years ago it was so serious out there that when we went home at night from evening song, there was a police car that drove just as slowly along Sjælør Boulevard, because there had been a lot of incidents where we had been attacked in the evening. We didn't have the guts to go in there and kick our asses on Sjælør Boulevards, otherwise we'd be kicking our asses. So already 40 years ago there were problems and those problems have only got worse. So it's really, really fine that something is being done about it now. Then I just have to make sure, in the end, that the Social Democrats hopefully will not expropriate villas, either in one place or another, for non-profit housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111350	Thank you very much for those nice words. I can assure the rapporteur of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111355	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111359	That sounds good. It wasn't so much on its own. It was more for Enhedslisten's comrade Thyge Enevoldsen, who lives in a huge villa on Dalgas Boulevard in a collective slant across from Kirsten Birgit Schiøtz Kretz Hørsholm from Radio24syv just to show that the performance of Frederiksberg as a place without non-profit housing, where everyone lives in villas, is completely wrong. 3% of the houses at Frederiksberg are villas, so we couldn't stop with those prejudices about 100,000 people in one of Denmark's largest and otherwise best municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111430	Thank you. We shall come back to the proposal. Kaare Dybvad I don't think there was a question. ) No, is it? Good. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111446	I would just like to return to the rapporteur's remark that the bulldozer is not being driven forward here. Because if you go to BL • Denmark's General Housing website right now and look up, you will be able to see that the website has a headline as news, and it is: Agreement does not stop unnecessary demolition. And so says Bent Madsen, director of BL • Denmark's General Housing: • It is presented as if the agreement prevents the demolition of housing, but that is not the case. You don't stop the demolition. It will then just not be 330, but perhaps 200 good homes that are torn down in Finland's park in Vejle. And then he says further: "When, for example, there are 23 too many residents outside the labour market in Finland, it would be smartest to make an extra effort to get people into work and thus not adopt anything that would mean demolitions. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111544	My comment on BL's assessment of how to tear down is that BL takes as a general assumption that there is no need for either elderly or youth housing. That's what they say in Holbæk, for example, where my mother works with all older people over 75 years of age and comes out to visit them. When she visits them and asks where they want to live in an elderly home, then it is the elderly homes in Agervang that are the most in demand. But you can read in BL's report that there is no demand for elderly housing in Agervang. Similarly, BL concludes in their report on Mjølnerparken that there is no need for additional youth housing in the local area • that there is no need for additional youth housing at Nørrebro in Copenhagen. Nor do I believe that the Enhedslisten agrees that there is no need for this. I think we are very much in agreement that this is needed. So if you make a general assumption that there is no need for elderly housing or need for youth housing anywhere in the country, it is clear that you will then come to a place where you will have to make demolition or sell anything from. But I would like to question whether this is a prerequisite we can count on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111651	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111655	So now that BL is saying that this agreement does not stop unnecessary demolition, Mr. Kaare Dybvad that it is completely wrong. There will be no unnecessary demolition at all. Sir. Kaare Dybvad has also said from the platform today that Enhedslisten is conducting a scaremongering campaign. So I just want to ask: does Bent Madsen, who is director of BL • Denmark's General Housing, lead the scaremonger campaign when he says that it is presented as if the agreement prevents the demolition of housing, but that is not the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111734	I don't know if he does. But it is factually wrong when he says that it is presented as if fewer homes will not be demolished. Because he himself says that there will be. But it is clear that if you take as a prerequisite, as you do in this inventory, as BL does, that nowhere in the country is there a need for more elderly housing, despite the fact that there are many more elderly people, or that nowhere in the country there is no need for more youth housing, even at Nørrebro in Copenhagen, where very many young people are looking for youth housing, then it is clear that you have to tear down. If you take as a condition that you can actually use the tools contained in this agreement, then I do not think you will have unnecessary demolitions in the way the rapporteur presents it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111807	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111815	Thank you very much. I just want to hear how the rapporteur defines the word ghetto.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111822	In this agreement it is, after all, defined as a exposed residential area which meets two out of four criteria. One criterion is that there are 40%. or more to be outside the labour market, the second criterion is that there must be a crime which is three times the national average. The third criterion is that you must have an average income which is less than 55%. of the region's average, and the fourth criterion is that there should be 60%. or more who have no more education than a primary school education and must be further 50%. or several of the residents have a non-western background.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111859	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111903	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that it is appropriate to continue to use that expression? Now it is the case that many, many people in those residential areas every day are struggling to create a positive development. They are incredibly happy to live there, and they are so sorry for the negative effect that is, that we keep using that word. Does the rapporteur think that it is appropriate that we continue to use that word?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122111928	I would say that when we were in government, we called the vulnerable residential area. I think that is a more comprehensive term. But it is clear that when you enter into a negotiation process, you have to focus on what you think is the most crucial thing. For us, it was most crucial that the government had plans to take 19 billion. kr. According to the Landsbygningsfonden from the so-called grant aid. But if you had been allowed to take the 19 billion, or 13 billion, as calculated by the Ministry of Finance, it would have destroyed the general housing sector. And that was our first priority: to ensure the general housing sector more than what expression was used in this legislative package.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112004	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112007	Thank you. After all, the Socialist rapporteur has been in the Chair for quite some time now, and I have already received an answer to my question. Nevertheless, I would like to use my brief comment to thank the rapporteur. One of the previous rapporteurs said that this bill has only come into being because the Danish People's Party does not like certain individuals. I would like to thank the rapporteur for making the debate more nuanced and thank him for explaining that there are in fact more things in the toolbox than demolition. I would also like to thank you for the information that there is also the possibility of a derogation and a derogation has been granted in several places. Finally, I would like to thank you for also informing us that there have been laws in the past that have included the possibility of reorganisation from before the Danish People's Party was founded at all. So thank you to the Socialist rapporteur for making the debate a little more nuanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112051	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112053	I can only say thank you for those nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112058	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112102	Thank you. I do not think I got what the rapporteur thinks about us using the word ghetto in Denmark in relation to legislation and to housing areas where people live.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112118	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112120	What we believe in the Social Democratic Party is that vulnerable residential areas are a better term. That was the term we used ourselves, and we think that is a more precise term. We think that the word ghetto is a less precise term, which can be said in a modern interpretation drawing attention to television series such as the wire, where people live in a ghetto in Baltimore. We do not think that this is adequate for many of these residential areas. We therefore believe that the most precise term is vulnerable residential areas. But that has not been our priority in these negotiations. Our priority has been to ensure that the general housing sector will also be able to renovate their homes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112159	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112201	I understand that the rapporteur recognises that it can have a negative impact on one's self-understanding if one lives in an area that is described by others as a ghetto. If so, is this something that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats will work to get rid of so that we do not call people ghetto residents or what we might call them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112231	We don't use that expression ourselves. The rapporteur will also have noticed this during the debate. However, it is not our priority to change language. We would rather change the structural features of these residential areas. It's more important to us. But I insist that it is a more precise term to call the exposed residential area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112253	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no further comments or brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112302	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 20 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112430	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112439	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112515	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112542	Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112558	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112622	Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112637	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 13 (EL and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 1 and 3-5, tabled and acceded, by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112742	Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122112758	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF), stating that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. It's voteable, here you go. The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-10, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113100	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113113	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113133	The Minister for Health has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113148	When I ask for the floor at second reading, it is just to note that I can see that there are several parties in the Danish Parliament who wish to vote against the part of the bill that forms part of the better balance sheet, i.e. the relocation of state jobs. That is why I just need to say politically from the government that when we set up a Market Monitoring Centre in Esbjerg as part of this bill, which is also part of Esbjerg's better balance sheet, this is because we want a country in a better balance sheet, and that this is part of an overall strategy where we initially relocated almost 4,000 jobs and now in the second place relocate around 4,000 jobs again and also set up 10 decentralised training stations around the country with 500 to 1 000 training places. Therefore, I just have to say that it sounds a little hollow when I sometimes debate with the same parties who say that they support a Denmark in better balance, but when it comes to the concrete implementation of better balance and relocation of jobs, from the Danish Medicines Agency in Copenhagen to a newly created Center for Market Monitoring located in the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg, then the same parties do not want to vote in favour. That is why I just have the need to point out here at second reading that for the government this is part of an overall strategy, and we are, of course, on the goal of the overall relocation plan, and I hope, in fact, that those parties who usually say that they support the relocation of jobs will review it before the third reading, so that, hopefully, the parties of the Folketing, when they vote in the Chamber, are still behind a relocation plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113323	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113331	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the proposal is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in B is then voted on [Proposal for a Law amending the Law prohibiting the sale of tobacco and alcohol to persons under 18 years of age (Admission of control to the Security Board)]: 2-6, endorsed by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113411	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122113426	With the resolution, the Socialist People's Party wants the government to resume the reception of at least 500 quota refugees annually, in agreement with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, also known as the UNHCR. In this context, the Socialist People's Party has stressed that the asylum system favours those who have the money and the strength to reach Europe, rather than the most disadvantaged refugees who never reach Europe. Denmark has a long tradition of assuming joint responsibility for some of the world's refugees, and we must, of course, continue to do so. This must be done by means of reinforced local action, but also by re-accepting quota refugees in the long term. It is therefore the government's position that Denmark should also re-inhabit refugees in the future and thus support the global resettlement efforts to take a part of the world's refugees. But we must not take so many refugees that it threatens the cohesion of our society. We have a responsibility for Denmark to be linked economically, for Denmark to be connected socially and for Denmark to be linked culturally. It is therefore important that the number of refugees who are repatriated annually in Denmark can be determined with the greatest possible flexibility, so that we can take into account the current conditions in society. In December 2017, the Danish Parliament adopted a new and more flexible quota system, which includes: This means that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who decides each year how many quota refugees Denmark should receive. The decision is made on the basis of an overall balance of social and economic capacity in society. It is of course important in this context how many foreigners have already come to Denmark in recent years and how the foreigners already in Denmark are integrated. The new quota system was introduced in the wake of the massive pressure exerted by Denmark during the refugee crisis in 2015, when an historically large number of refugees and migrants crossed the borders of Europe and Denmark. A lot has happened since then. We have better managed the general influx, and the government has taken a number of steps in the field of integration. Unfortunately, however, we are not in the finish line yet. As you know, on 3 October, I decided that Denmark should not receive quota refugees in 2018, and the reason for my decision is that I believe that there is still a major challenge in the area of integration. I would, of course, like to see the integration of foreigners who are already here managed before we take responsibility for new quota refugees. Or to put it another way: there must be order in your own house. In fact, I agree with the Socialist People's Party that the asylum system favours those who have enough money and strength to reach Europe and also Denmark. It is not always those who reach Europe that actually have the greatest need of protection. I also believe that we must help the disadvantaged, those who really need protection, and not just those who reach Europe because they have sufficient financial resources. That is also why the government, with the support of a broad majority here in the Folketing, has carried out a large number of tightenings in the field of foreigners. These austerity measures must include: help make it significantly less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. It is important that we remove the basis for traffickers by curbing the influx of asylum seekers coming to Europe. If we reduce the influx of asylum seekers into Europe, we will have the opportunity to continue working on the integration of foreigners who have already come to Denmark. We will thus have the opportunity to strike the right balance between the number of refugees and our ability to integrate those who are already in this country. This could help to create enough air for us to be able to receive quota refugees again. It has been stated by some that it is strange that Denmark cannot just take 500 quota refugees a year. It is said as follows: How could 500 people actually pose a challenge to Danish cohesion or to integration in general? But what we must bear in mind is that the 500 quota refugees must be added to the many thousands who have been granted asylum and family reunification over the years, leaving us with a very large integration task. As I have already said, I do not think it is reasonable for us to assume responsibility for new quota refugees until the integration of foreigners who are already present in Denmark has been improved, and that is also why the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114017	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114021	Thank you. And thank the Minister for his answer here. I think there are some things that kind of stick out. The Minister's basic argument is that we need to get this under control in our own house before we can again take quota refugees. She recognizes that it is in this sense very sensible to take quota refugees. But there I just think it is going to be strange when, at the same time, you can see that there are fewer refugees, fewer asylum seekers coming to Denmark in these years; that integration is going better. So it is just that one has to ask oneself: when will there be order in one's own house? What's it gonna take to make things right in your own house? Should this mean that everyone should be able to speak Danish within a very short time, or that everyone should have a job? You can make some demands that you think are unattainable, and then you can keep saying this. But I don't know if that's what the government wants. That is why I think we need to be a little more precise about this. I do not think it makes sense at all to use that argument in the current situation, especially when it comes to 500 people, which is therefore a limited number, and when this has a major impact on our international reputation. In other words, Denmark is very much engaged in supporting the United Nations in foreign policy, and it is a United Nations system which a former Danish Prime Minister took the initiative to do at the time. I therefore think it would be a little too petty if 500 quota refugees could not be welcomed in a situation where integration is actually improving and fewer refugees are coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114202	Well, that's better. I totally agree with Mr. Simpson. Holger K. Nielsen i. It does, of course, because we have brought the influx down very sharply, and we have, of course, because we have carried out a number of tightenings in the area of foreigners. The integration process is also improving. I also fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Holger K. Nielsen in Denmark and it is again because we have tightened up, and because we simply make demands on the people who come here, which I think is only right and fair. Moreover, it can also be said that there is not much living in a country if you do not also participate in the country in which you now live. I don't really think we disagree on that. But where the disagreement, like it, occurs, is, of course, as to how well things are going. Is it going well enough that we can once again take on the task of bringing 500 quota refugees here, as has been proposed here. And there I have to say that it is such an overall balance, both in relation to whether people actually support themselves, but also in relation to whether you have taken the value set into account and whether you participate in the ordinary Danish daily life. Even if things are moving forward considerably, for that is to say, the air is, in our opinion, just not yet there as well as being able to take in more quota refugees. So I believe and hope that at some point we will get to where we are going to have quota refugees again, but it is just not now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114335	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114339	Yes, but it will then be in some distant future that you cannot say when will be there and what it takes to reach. Well, it does give a feeling that this is about saying in advance: we just don't want to do this; we can't take these quota refugees, because we don't want to do that. And no matter how much it is argued that it does not really make sense in terms of a rational argument as to how many we are getting at the moment, how well we are doing with integration, how much impact it has on 500 quota refugees, which we have taken in the past, for many years without it having overturned anything. That's not what's been knocking over anything. So it's just that I'm asking, is this just because you've decided in advance that you don't want to do this? I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114431	I am well aware that we have a great deal of disagreement in this area, and so there is no secret in us either. But I must also say that I feel a very great commitment to keeping Denmark under control and that the Denmark we have today is also the Denmark we have tomorrow. And I just have to say that if you look back, you can see that there has been no control: too few have worked, too many have committed crime, too few have taken Denmark in, too few speak the language. If we look at women, we can see that far too few live in reality a free and equal life. And that's what we need to get to grips with. However, as I said, I am actually working hard to get to where we can take quota refugees again. We're just not there yet, at least not this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114520	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye is next in the rapporteur's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114539	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for tabling this motion for a resolution so that we can have a discussion on the quota refugee regime. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that Denmark should accept quota refugees as a starting point, and also the 500 in our current legislation. And we basically support the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR. Just before we went on Christmas holidays last year, the Folketing adopted a new regime for the resettlement of quota refugees. The new law authorizes the Minister for Foreign Affairs to determine how many quota refugees Denmark is to receive annually. It also creates an opportunity for us to receive more, for example. in connection with international agreements with governments of other countries, and it also provides an opportunity for us to take fewer if there has been a large influx of asylum seekers and family reunification, and what is happening with integration. I remember from that discussion that the first caused the Danish People's Party to vote against the legislation with the argument that it opened up to more than 500. I also remember that the SF voted against with the second argument, namely that it opened up for less than 500 to be taken. The law was therefore passed by adding votes to the Social Democracy and Government. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the number of newcomers is of great importance in order to ensure successful integration for those who have already arrived, an integration which is absolutely essential for our welfare societies to be able to connect together. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also support this new quota system, as this means that we have the opportunity to determine the annual number of quota refugees in the light of the social and economic capacity of society, taking into account the number of asylum seekers. In 2015, the number of asylum seekers increased sharply, but the last year has managed to regain control. That is why we are now closer to receiving quota refugees again than we were a few years ago, but not here in 2018. We can look back a few years. I received a reply a few months ago that since 2015 a residence permit has been granted to 50,000 refugees and family members. We need to integrate them properly before we can open up new quota refugees. This does not mean that they must be fully integrated, but it means that we have to deal with what 50,000 new residence permits in less than 3 years mean. We have approx. 100 municipalities in Denmark. This means that there are 500 for an average municipality. An average municipality in Denmark is e.g. Holstebro or Næstved or Gladsaxe. If you distribute it, it means that in the town halls of these three municipalities there have on average been four every week, for which we have had to find accommodation, a general practitioner, school for the children, day-off services, social benefits from the job centre or a job where there was a lack of some unskilled labour, as is typically the case, find psychologists who are not already too many if people need trauma treatment, and all the other things we must of course make available as a rich welfare society. I think it is obvious to everyone that it is a task for a municipality, not to do it for one week, nor to do it for two weeks, but that every week, on average, in the last three years, four pieces have been in the town hall asking for these benefits. Of course, it puts pressure on us and it is a challenge for our society. Having said that, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a small group of quota refugees who are very vulnerable and particularly vulnerable, namely those with treatment-intensive diseases, and we must always be able to accept them, regardless of how integration works. That is why we have also called on the government to accept this smaller group this year, just as we did last year and last year. With this motion for a resolution, the SF wants Denmark to receive a minimum of 500 quota refugees every year, without taking into account these social and economic considerations of capacity, and we are not in favour of that. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122114958	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115001	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that in the Socialist parliamentary group there was quite a great deal of discussion about the attitude towards quota refugees, which I understand, because the whole arrangement with the United Nations is very much in line with the traditional socialist approach to the refugee problem and to the whole UN and to international solidarity, which is also part of this. I would therefore like to say that I think that some of the measures currently being taken by the Social Democratic Party in the field of foreigners are sensible; I do not belong to those on the left who criticize everything to the point. I think there's some sense in it. But I don't think I can see the sense in this, I have to confess. It is simply an extension, a continuation of a social democratic tradition with UN quota refugees. It is a continuation of a solidarity international tradition that should be put behind it. These are 500 refugees to be taken to Denmark and to use as an argument that it will overturn the situation in all the municipalities, I just do not think it is serious, at least for me. I know that the municipalities can take on that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115118	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115122	It is true, as the SF rapporteur says, that this is being discussed here in the Social Democratic Party fortunately I would like to say that what is not under discussion is whether we fundamentally support the quota allocation system and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. We are very much in favour of this, and that is why we voted in favour of the last Christmas law, which states that Denmark is part of that system and must continue to be so. I do not think it is quite fair to say that I have argued that 500 quota refugees would overturn the municipal welfare system. I didn't say that. I just said that we must bear in mind that it has a meaning. And that is what we have to discuss, but I also believe that we must stick to the fact that if we had not received 50 000 in the last three years, but 50 500, it would still have been SF's position, I suppose we should have taken 51 000. In other words, at some point we must also discuss with each other when we think the border has been reached, and for us, with 50 000 in the last three years, to look into a year when many Syrian refugees who are temporarily staying will also be entitled to family reunification, at least the alarm bells will be ringing from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115235	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115239	I have to say that from that description, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye made it clear how much difficulty it would give to the municipalities, one could get no more impression than that it would almost overturn the whole system, but all right, since the rapporteur then drew ashore on it, that is fine. But I still find it difficult to see the time when social democracy, like the old principle, is abandoned in a socialist refugee policy, in a socialist policy on foreigners, in a socialist policy on the part of the UN, to use as an argument that they cannot be integrated when we know that integration is better, when we know that there are fewer asylum seekers, when we know that there are 500 people. I just don't think it's connected. I can only take this as an expression of the fact that it has, as it were, been decided to join the government on this point too. I do not think it suits the social democracy, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115339	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115344	I don't think it suits SF to keep telling me that I'm using arguments that I haven't used. I have not said that 500 quota refugees cannot be integrated. I didn't say that. Of course they can be integrated. The majority of people who come here succeed with integration. What I am just saying is that the amount of housing, general practitioners, schools, day care, social services and access to therapy in a psychologist is not endless, and therefore we have to discuss with each other whether we think that at some point we are hitting a level where our political task is to pull the brake. We think that over the last two to three years we have long passed that level. We support all legislation that can limit the flow to Denmark within the framework of the conventions that we have signed. This is one of the tools we can actually use. It is a place where we are actually able to regulate the influx. I think it is quite reasonable that we have just stopped for a few years and said that 50 000 since the beginning of 2015 is an ample mouthful, and here is the possibility of limiting the influx by 500 a year. We have been doing this for a few years, also here in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122115453	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no more brief remarks, so I shall postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130018	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130047	The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal to resume the reception of quota refugees now. But there is something in the comments on the motion for a resolution that has actually been spoken out of the heart of the Danish People's Party, namely that the asylum system is today beating unfairly. We are helping the strong who can emigrate from refugee camps where they do not want to live and who can afford to buy a human smuggler ticket so that they can join the Danish border and say the word asylum. So the current system helps the strong and the weak are back in the refugee camps. It is unfair to the weak refugees. Of course, we will help to change that. So once we have closed down the access to spontaneous asylum for the many migrants who are coming up through Europe, we can start to consider accepting quota refugees again, however, always to a very limited extent, with particular regard to whether the reported refugees have the ability and will to be integrated into Denmark. It will be fairer to the weak refugees. But right now it is unfair to the Danes to say yes to more refugees or migrants or quota refugees simply because we have so many integration problems and so much expenditure on immigrants and migrants who have come in recent years that we cannot overcome any more. So we fully support the fact that a stop has been put to quota refugees. That is why we cannot support the SF's motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130232	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130252	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we basically agree that Denmark must take responsibility for helping people flee. And as a starting point, we believe that the quota refugee system is a good and solidarity system in which we want Denmark to rejoin in the long term. But it is important that this happens at a rate where we can keep up. We believe that there are two conditions which must be met before we can re-enter the quota system. First, we need to control the flow and then we need to control integration. We are in a situation where we are in the process of achieving our goal in terms of influx. In any case, we are in a place much better than where we were when we came to power. Denmark now has the lowest number of asylum seekers for nine years, and we are very pleased that the policy we have pursued has worked. However, although we have managed to control the flow significantly, we are still struggling to integrate the many who have come here. And despite the fact that more people have gone to work, there are still too many people who do not support themselves. This is particularly true of women, where far too few contribute. As a government party, it is our responsibility to ensure that we are able to carry out the tasks we undertake, rather than making them even bigger. This includes, among other things: to ensure a proper balance between the number of new refugees and the ability to integrate those who come, so that Denmark can continue to be a good and secure society, where the refugees who come here also take Denmark in and contribute to the country. It is our responsibility to ensure that the cohesion and fundamental values are intact in our society. It is our responsibility to look after Denmark. That is why the Left believes that Denmark is not yet ready to receive quota refugees. And with those words, I can tell you that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130445	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur of the Left and move on to Mr Seligman's report. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is surprised that Mr. Søren Søndergaard doesn't come to him until today, but he is preoccupied with a consultation, so we pushed him all the way down to the bottom, so the last will be the first. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130517	Thank you for that, President. This proposal argues convincingly that the reception of quota refugees is a much better way of receiving refugees than through spontaneous asylum applications. The quota system can help the weakest refugees, which is often not the ones who have the resources to move thousands of kilometres. At the same time, we can help in a way that does not provide inappropriate incentives to pay large sums of money to smugglers and to risk lives and limbs in dilapidated, overcrowded boats on the Mediterranean. However, we cannot separate the question of how to receive refugees from the question of how many refugees to receive, especially in view of the fact that we have received too many for a number of years. In Denmark, a long-term, irresponsible and misguided immigration policy has meant that we are faced with some almost insurmountable integration challenges. Something's gonna be moved in these years. You can, for example. mention that the employment rate is increasing for new arrivals and that the number of convictions for criminal offences is generally decreasing. But if you look at the gap between people of Danish and foreign origin, it is enormously long again. We've had a naive approach to these questions. It has been thought that over time the foreigners would look like the Danes, but if at all that can be said to happen, then things are going very slow. That is, for example, the case. a pattern that the prevalence of crime is greater among descendants than among immigrants, and if you look at results in school, the average character of the primary school's graduation tests shows that the backlog is almost as large in the third generation as in the first. That says something about how long-term problems of uncontrolled and unintegrated immigration are creating. In view of this very great challenge, in which the instruments we have tried to bring about dramatic improvements, we must realise that we need to have very strong restrictions on how many refugees are coming here. The reality is also that we cannot stop the spontaneous asylum application alone. When there is an asylum seeker in Denmark, we will not be able to send him anywhere if there are no countries that will receive him or her. This is true regardless of whether you are willing to put an end to conventions etc. We need international solutions, especially at EU level; solutions that will stop the problem and not just distribute it. I believe that there is growing awareness in Europe that is moving in this direction, and that is welcome. When the question is asked whether we should receive quota refugees in the short term on top of the relatively large number of spontaneous asylum seekers, we need to take stock of the situation. It will be clear that we have received far too many people who have not been integrated, and in this situation we should not just sit back and accept even more people, even though the quota refugees system is basically good. We are therefore opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130911	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122130918	Thank you. One remark struck me in the rapporteur's speech. It was when he said the following and I actually wrote it down, so I think what I am quoting here is right: it takes a long time before foreigners look like the Danes. Is it the perspective of the Liberal Alliance that everyone should look like the Danes, that everyone should be like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, before they can call themselves integrated? I think that is perhaps something other than what has been heard from the Liberal Alliance in the past. They have, like you, made a lot of sense that it was a very liberal party and that you could be different and so on. I think that is a strange approach, and that is what is called assimilation. Is it the perspective of LA that everyone should be assimilated before we can again take quota refugees? You could almost get that impression when you heard the speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131015	I didn't say at any time that foreigners should look like Danes. I said that there are some obvious problems, in that immigrants are not similar to Danes in terms of crime, in terms of employment, and in terms of how they are doing in the education system. Immigrants and their descendants must look like Danes. How else they live their lives, as long as it doesn't hurt anyone else, I don't care about it, but on these parameters immigrants and their descendants need to look more like Danes. Let me give you an example: when you looked into the future before 2015, what you call the demographic trait was that there are more elderly people, and that there is therefore greater costs, of 0.2. The demographic trait is something SF cares a lot about when they blame the government for not spending enough money. After 2015, it was 0.6. It says something about the financial burden of receiving too many refugees because they are not sufficiently similar to Danes in terms of employment, how they manage in the education system, crime etc. Of course, we need to take stock of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131156	But my question is whether the Liberal Alliance is not open to things to change. That's what we're working on. In other words, we have brought some people here who, in some ways, find it difficult to manage in the Danish society. We also agree that there are problems. However, one of the points of the government's approach to this is that there are indeed improvements in these areas, and given that there are improvements and that there are actually fewer asylum seekers coming to Denmark. This is something we have put a great deal of emphasis on in the past on the Danish side, because it is the weakest refugees that are being helped around the world and because it is an expression of international solidarity. If other countries do the same thing as Denmark, you risk everything falling apart. So we think that the price of the argument that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen uses, is too high, especially considering that it's only 500.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131311-2	Holger K. Nielsen has spent many, many years in the Folketing, and that is probably because there are voters who like Holger K. Nielsen. But the truth is that Holger K. Nielsen could have said the same thing 20 years ago, namely that things will change over time; that things will improve; that over-representation in crime statistics will fall as time passes; that immigrants and their descendants will do better in the educational system; and that they will achieve the same level of employment. Actually, I'm pretty sure that's what some people have been saying in this hall 20 years ago. The problem is that it hasn't happened. That hasn't happened. On some parameters it has actually deteriorated from generation to generation. Although it is difficult when you have believed in something for many years, you have to change your approach when reality does not turn out to be the one you have believed in. We have also done so over the last many years in Denmark and pursued a tighter policy, and this has also had an effect. This government has also done some things which the Left has opposed, but which have at least proved to be moving in the right direction. You've turned the whole way you receive people on your head. People are perceived as being ready for work immediately and so on. These are many small steps and they matter, but the challenges are still massive, and the differences are still very large, so we should not have more until those who are here are well integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131444	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. I see no one else wishing to make a brief comment. I would like to welcome Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131508	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the authors of the SF for submitting the proposal. This is the first time I have come up here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, so I would also like to thank the Members and the staff in this House for welcoming me very well. In fact, I have received some signatures on the agenda and some small coins... Danish kroner and a little euro... for which I also thank you. I have been given five minutes to talk about the alternative's attitude to helping 500 people, whom the UN has estimated to be in urgent need of resettlement. We are talking here about vulnerable people, some with diseases, others with but that can only be cured in countries such as Denmark. We are talking about people on the run, victims of war, torture and genocide that can be brought to safety in Denmark. We are talking about solidarity, about investing in international cooperation and in the neighbourhood. We are talking about UN cooperation which, in a transparent and effective way, helps people who are on the run and who ensure that Denmark and the other Member States control the situation. Our help will mean infinitely much to each of the 500 people. In many cases, it will save their lives. As a new member of the Folketing, I am extremely pleased to see how you are actually very good at working together in this House between the parties and the members of parliament and in many cases reach a joint decision. It makes me really happy to see. At the same time, I am also frustrated and saddened by standing here and acknowledging that as a whole Parliament we will not help these 500 people to safety, as we have been doing for many years, even though we actually agree that this is a very good arrangement. I have tried to understand the Minister's reasons for holding back from helping and have at the same time tried to understand why, in the alternative of our government proposal, we are proposing that we want to reinstate and extend this system of taking people on the run. As I hear the explanatory statement from the Minister about teams in our own house, it is about the fact that we do not currently have any profits here in our national home, Denmark. You could also see the issue in a slightly larger perspective in relation to our global home here on Earth. But to understand that, I've tried to relate it to my own home, to my own house and my family. And then I understand that there may be times when you do not actually have the surplus to open the door to your home and to accept. It may be that you have had a lot of visits and have had many people in your home lately, or that the profits just aren't there. You may want to make time for yourself and your children. In this context, the situation is just a little different and probably corresponds to the fact that a family member or a neighbor is calling and urgently needs a place to sleep and a person to talk to. In this situation, I would say yes and accept with open arms. I do not know whether this is an understandable comparison, but it has certainly helped me to understand that this issue must be taken out of the context of local conditions in Denmark and instead taken as what it is, namely people on the run who urgently need our help. What if we agreed here, in the five minutes I have now stood here and spoken, we could have taken a joint decision to help these 500 people out of danger and into safety here in Denmark. In the alternative, we welcome the proposal and we will use the green button in the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131923	Thank you very much, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau and congratulations on the virginity, a great disciplined speech and easy to understand, thank you for it. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122131940	The Radical Left thinks it is too poor, too poor, that a well-functioning and rich society such as ours will not accept 500 quota refugees. These are some of the weakest people in the world, and they are people who, with a hundred per cent certainty, need to be safe. They're refugees, they're not migrants, they're lucky knights or immigrants. They're people who need to get to live somewhere else. The integration of refugees is going better, and because among other things. The EU's external borders have been better managed, the number of refugees arriving in Denmark has fallen sharply. That is why we in the Radical Left think we could drop this suspension of accepting quota refugees. As the former CD and member of the Things here and the current group chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Hjørring City Council, Peter Duetoft, has said: "I want to say that we need to get the size perspective in order. If we are to receive 500 quota refugees, that is five per head. municipality, five people. I mean, if you can't handle it, it's too lame. I totally agree with Duetoft. You can also look back in history and remember that it was the former Left leader Poul Hartling who made this quota system and actually got the Nobel Peace Prize in 1981. The Left today seems to have forgotten that well and thoroughly, unfortunately. It makes sense, with radical eyes, for countries in the world to cooperate and distribute refugees, instead of people smugglers and dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean, for example, becoming refugees' way to safety. For a country like Denmark, we also think it is wise to cooperate with other countries to distribute refugees, so other countries also take responsibility and it is not only Denmark that takes responsibility. So both from a moral but also from a clever approach, we in the Radical Left believe that Denmark should and must support the UN quota system for refugees, and that is why we can support the SF resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132230	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132234	Thank you. That's pretty much right if you put it up like that: five a.m. Is it something that overturns the load? Well, it's hard to disagree with, and it probably won't, but somewhere you have to set a limit. You could also focus on the fact that over the last five years we have taken just under 50,000. There are many, including in a country like Denmark. That is why it has to be said somewhere that, in view of the fact that we are still receiving refugees every year, perhaps 3,000 or something like that, you have to set the limit somewhere. Then you could also say that no one like to question that these are some vulnerable people, but there are plenty, unfortunately, of exposed people in the world. There are also places where people are starving, who also do not have access to the right medicine and treatment, etc. Then why shouldn't we take them too? You have to set a limit somewhere, and it's not like we're not helping. We help massively out in the world, and we spend a very large part of our overall wealth on it. We have also received many refugees. But somewhere you have to set a limit. Maybe the easiest thing is to say that it shouldn't be here, but someone has to set the limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132355	I do not think that there were so many issues in it, but where the Radical Left disagrees diametrically with the government and the government's support party and also the social democracy, we believe that the refugee crisis should be dealt with by international agreements. After all, Denmark has not received very many refugees this year compared to the years before, because the EU does not have complete control of its external borders, but has managed them more effectively. This means that international solutions have been put in place to ensure that there are not so many. Similarly, we think it would be wise for us to support a system in which we try to divide this task between countries instead of resigning, because if all countries did so, I think that Denmark would receive more refugees. So we are interested in refugees being distributed so that we do not have the whole task or a very large part of the task. So if you are interested in keeping the number down, I think you should also participate in the international distributions that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132459	Well, as long as there are no international agreements that mean that we do not receive as many refugees as we have in the last five years, then we must take responsibility for the well-being of our country. That's gotta be it. We fully agree that this is something that needs to be resolved internationally, because it is about the external borders of the European Union. It is important that they are safe and protected and that you have control over who comes in over them, but as long as there is not, every country and its parliament must ensure that things are done in a way that we can keep up with. And I just have to say that I think there are very good arguments that we cannot quite keep up. I just think the figures show that clearly in terms of integration. It is not a new problem, it is an old problem. We're trying to do a lot about it, and there's also some of it that seems to work, but the yawn is just still gone hugely large. That is where we think it is so political that it is okay to say that this is where the line goes. And then we must make integration work better, because that is a prerequisite for allowing more people in, which is historically known to have really poor chances of being well integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132614	But there are international agreements that are simply wrong. What we are discussing here is an international agreement. The European Union has also made some agreements and these are intergovernmental agreements or what we should call them. So there are some agreements that are going to be made to deal with this challenge. The latest figure I saw now may be that the minister or anyone else will correct me was that 800 has arrived this year. That is quite a different figure from what we saw for example. 2 or 3 years ago, and that's what makes us in the Radical Left think that we can be in this scheme again and take 500. So there are, of course, some international agreements that have got it under control more than there have been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132657	Thank you very much, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132709	We believe, like the proposers, that the United Nations quota refugee system is the best way to distribute and protect refugees. Through the UN, we know that the people who receive protection are among those who are most in need. In recent years, however, we have had a significant number of asylum seekers who bypass the UN system, the so-called spontaneous asylum seekers. Here, therefore, it is not necessarily the people most in need of help who are at the forefront. It is mainly young men who have had the means, the links or the forces to travel through Europe to Denmark, and I do not think that is fair to many of those in the camps who have a greater need. Denmark, of course, has international responsibility. We must help the world's most vulnerable, but we must do so at a pace in which we, as a society, can keep up with it. With the amount of spontaneous asylum seekers over the last 3-4 years, both our own system and the European asylum system have been under pressure, and that is not the right way to help. That is why we have sympathy for the SF's proposal. We believe that, in future, only quota refugees should be accepted and that families should be picked up so that there is no need for family reunification later, the business of traffickers is undermined and refugees are not in danger of being sexually assaulted or of drowning in the Mediterranean. The fairest, the fairest and the fairest will be people being brought to the camps. But we must deal with the current flow of refugees first. In the long term, therefore, we see a system that helps as much as possible in the near areas through the UN, but also that only quota refugees are taken. But that is not where we are today. We need to assess Denmark's current economic and social capacity. We need to integrate those who have arrived and those they will bring together in the family. It's most important. At a later stage, we can decide on quota refugees. So we do not support the SF's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132947	There is a brief comment from Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122132951	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur what he thinks will happen to those people during the period when we put this otherwise good arrangement on hold. Who's gonna take care of them? Is it other countries that are richer than us and have better opportunities to do so? Have they not also had many asylum seekers in the meantime? Well, where do we put the responsibility while we take a break?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133023	It's not just 500 people waiting in the camps. There's a lot more than 500. What about the others who aren't part of the 500? Isn't that a pity for them too? Why is there only a focus on the 500, but not on the many millions that are also in the camps? What we are doing through the quota system is that we take 500 of the many who are in the camps, and when we say pause in relation to them, it is because so many of them have come, so they are actually in the same situation as the many others who are in the camps. There's nothing to be ashamed of. We are, in fact, one of the countries that has granted asylum to the vast majority of people in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133104	I understand that there are many more and, as I said, we would also like to be able to help even more than 500, but it is just building up and there will be more and more as long as we take a break. So is that a problem we're gonna put off till later? So are we supposed to take a lot more when we start again to make up for it? Or who's gonna make up for this in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133131	In other words, there are other countries that should receive more quota refugees. We are, in fact, one of the top countries that has accepted most. There are some countries which have hardly received anyone, for example. Japan we have taken many more than Japan and many of the Arab countries. That is why we may well be aware of the number we have received. I believe that the quota system is the right way to do this. We do not have any problems with increasing the quota system, but then it must be the only thing that applies, and not that you come yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133211	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader, and welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133225	Thank you. And I would like to thank the President and the other rapporteurs for accepting that we have moved around a little in the rapporteur's line. The number of refugees in the world is increasing, and that is now approx. 70 million people have more than ten times the total population of Denmark. I think it is a little important to start by saying: who is it that is hit first and foremost by this crisis? Because I think the answer to that sometimes goes a little too far. Those who are most affected by this crisis are those countries which, as a starting point, have the worst chance of helping refugees. More than half of the refugees are internally displaced and that is to say, they are in those countries where war or oppression or other misery prevails. About 6 out of 10 refugees in the world come from three countries, Afghanistan, South Sudan and Syria, and 85%. Only a few, a few, of the world's many refugees come to the prosperous part of the world, including Europe. What can we do about the huge refugee problem? Well, what is the basics we can do about it? Of course, it is not to let people come to Europe, to Denmark or other countries. The basics we can do about the refugee problem are three things. It is firstly to support democratic regimes with respect for human rights. I would therefore like to say that I also find it totally absurd that people who say that we cannot take refugees but that they want to address the refugee problem do so by helping authoritarian regimes that oppress people and create refugees. I mean, it's like letting an arsonist put out fires; it's not going anywhere, it's completely hopeless. The second is economic development, which gives hope for the future, so that people stay at home. And the third is a massive effort to combat climate change, which will otherwise chase millions more people on the run. All these solutions, we're gonna get started now. And will it help now? No, it's gonna take a long time. However, I can only remember the discussions of 10 years ago, I remember the discussions of 20 years ago, and unfortunately I can also remember the discussions of 30-40 years ago. When we suggested doing some of these things except with the climate; it's come to us since we were told: Well it doesn't help now; we have to do something that helps now. And that means that in all these years, we have failed to do the things that could have prevented us from facing the greatest refugee crisis in history. So what do we do now besides these things? Yes, of course we are helping refugees in the neighbourhood. After all, we must remember that the background to the wave of refugees in 2016 was cuts in rations in Jordan and elsewhere. And we must take some asylum seekers ourselves, and the best way to do this is through quota refugees. Why do we have to do this? Does it solve the problem that we are taking 500 quota refugees? No, but it gives us an opportunity to go out and argue that others should do it. How can we go out and argue with others that they should take quota refugees if we say: No, no, we should not; we are one of the richest countries in the world, but we should not take any quota refugees? How could this be possible? Of course, this cannot be done. And that is why it is a problem that the political majority has resigned from a system of quota solidarity. This is a problem for the neighbourhoods, but it is also a problem for the project involving more countries. Perhaps one could understand the reason for this stop when most refugees arrived when the influx was at its highest, but that is not the case today. That is why this is not the reason we are using. Now we are using a statement of reasons: an overall balance between numbers and integration and problems, etc. But then all we have to do is ask: exactly what is the balance? After all, we have called for it from the Minister, but never been told how the various elements were included in that balance. And then it's all gonna be fluffy; then we can never count on it or say what it's gonna be so that we can take quota refugees again, because it's a balance with some variables that no one knows and which are not defined. That is why, after this discussion, we will of course ask the Minister once again to state clearly and clearly what elements are involved in this balance and with what weight they form part of that balance. When that balance is used so forcefully, without defining it, the answer is to the question of when we can again take quota refugees, one that blows in the wind, and then you get the suspicion that it is not really about this, but that it is about keeping people out. But, of course, it's only a suspicion. I would like to conclude by thanking the SF for submitting the proposal. This is a very good proposal, and it has the full support of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133743	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There is no one who wants to make brief comments this time round, and we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122133802	Thank you, President, and thank you for the debate. I cannot say that I am particularly satisfied with the outcome of it, but that is not particularly surprising either. More surprisingly, I think it is that the arguments that have been used all the time, that we cannot cope with this, that we cannot deal with this in Denmark. It is absolutely true that this is a debate that is real enough to take. The alternative rapporteur, Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau congratulations on the rapporteur's speech, which was a very fine speech, I thought, and welcome here in the Danish Parliament had some very clever remarks that we can all be exposed to if someone comes knocking on the door, so not just having the power to accept the person, and there may be many different reasons for that. It is quite true that one can ask oneself whether we can do this, whether it is too much etc., but the point of this is just that we are not in Denmark, we are not. First of all, we are one of the richest countries in the world. Secondly, fewer asylum seekers have arrived now than they did in the past. Thirdly, integration is better than it has done in the past. Fourthly, we also have obligations internationally which are important to involve. There was Mr. Søren Søndergaard, I think, some very correct considerations about how we cannot influence other places in the world if we do not want to take on this task ourselves. It is quite true that it is not these 500 quota refugees who make the difference, either in one place or another, but it makes a difference, in relation to whether we can tell others that they must also take their share of the responsibility here. When we talk about this here in Denmark, when we get so nervous about not being able to make it stick together, if there are 500 quota refugees, we often forget how many refugees very poor countries have to take: Bangladesh, Rohingyas from Myanmar; Kenya, refugees from Sudan and Somalia, etc., as well as Uganda. After all, the vast majority of refugees in the world are refugees in their neighbourhood, and most of them are not coming to us. Lebanon and Jordan can be included in this. We know these countries. It is very, very poor country that, like it says, we have to take our share of responsibility here, because there are people coming to our country and they are completely on it, they cannot return and they are being persecuted, so we have to find a solution to that. Then the UN comes in and helps to a great extent, and you can set up refugee camps, and those countries take some responsibility, even though it is difficult for them and they are also poor, but they do it anyway because it is a human duty that you have. That is why I do not think we can be familiar with the fact that in this rich country, as we are, we are, in many ways a butter hole, unable to accept 500 quota refugees. I just don't think that's connected, I don't think it does. This is especially so because, as has been said sometimes, it could help those specific people and because it is an important part of international work. We cannot solve the refugee challenge if we do not have more international cooperation. This applies to the European Union, but it also applies to the United Nations. That is why it is extremely important that the UN should be more involved in the whole refugee policy, and that is why I am also glad that this Global Compact can be discussed here, and it seems that the Danish Government is sticking to the fact that it must be supported, that is to say that the United Nations is coming in. That is why it is not very good that we go out of the United Nations quota refugee system, in which we have had many positive shares. Several people have praised our remarks that we would prefer it to be quota refugees only because we should not have spontaneous asylum seekers, that is to say that the current asylum system is a little unfair. We stand by that, because it is. And we are very concerned about the various proposals that have been put forward, about undermining the business base of traffickers, about creating asylum before they come to Europe. It is, of course, a discussion that runs a lot in many different countries, including here in Denmark, and in the European Union it is also running. The debate was controversial some years ago, but today it is almost mainstream that we are discussing it. There is no doubt that some sort of solution will be found at some point in the way in which, if I may say so, we will have asylum treatment before those concerned come to Europe. We stand by that completely, but until then we just cannot be aware that we are leaving the quota refugee system when it comes to as few people as is the case here. That is why, of course, I am disappointed that there is no majority in favour of this proposal, but I hope that people will consider it once again, in other words that the reflection will also influence the members of parliament who are today opposed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134349	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134355	SF therefore believes that we should receive more refugees in Denmark, as a general rule. After all, it will result if this is adopted. There comes the spontaneous asylum seekers, and then we should take more. I was actually of the opinion that SF had also realised that the number actually means something, that it had also corrected the path a little earlier, where SF belonged to those in the Folketing, who thought that a great many refugees should be taken, but that the reality had been found with the SF, and that it had come to the conclusion that the number actually matters. But these are apparently just words when you stand and argue that we have to take more together than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134447	If the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur wants to knock out his ears and then listen to what they say, then I put a lot of emphasis on the fact that fewer asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark. So the number means something. That is also why, with fewer asylum seekers, there is also the possibility of taking quota refugees. I also said that we are willing to look at the various models that have been developed, that we will have another reception for refugees in Europe. That is exactly what I am saying, and I think it is rather strange that the Liberal Alliance is taking a lot of arguments to the effect that what I am saying here we have always said and so on. In fact, there is also some thought in our minds on this issue, but that does not mean that we believe that we should conclude that we should stop accepting the 500 quota refugees, because I attached great importance to international global solutions here. I don't know if sir. Joachim B. Olsen agrees, but it will be. However, the international solutions are so important here and so we should not withdraw from the United Nations system of solidarity which is at issue here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134608	It is true that there will be fewer now than there were in 2014 and 2015. That is absolutely right, but it does not change the fact that over the last few years we have on average taken many refugees. A great many have come, not only to Europe, but also to Denmark. In recent years, we have brought it down. This is very good, and it is both due to international agreements, but it is also due to the policy pursued in the Folketing. But it still doesn't change the fact that people are coming, and the SF is of the opinion that there should be more than there was this year or than there was last year. That will be the result. There will be spontaneous asylum seekers, and on top of that SF will take 500 extra. So it will be more than it has come this year or last year. That's reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134700	I don't know if I can influence sir. Joachim B. Olsen on this. I simply do not know if I can, but I shall try to explain it again. If you go anywhere else in the world, it's millions of refugees they have to take. Poor countries in Africa, Asia, Bangladesh, Kenya, Uganda, Lebanon, Jordan receive millions of refugees. These are extremely poor countries. Bangladesh is certainly not a rich country to me. It's not 500, it's not 600. They're gonna have to accept millions, and they're gonna do it. Then it's just that I'm saying that we're gonna feel sorry for the fact that we're gonna have to take 500 more quota refugees. We just have a different approach to that. I can hear that, and it's as it is. I do not think that the Liberal Alliance's approach is fair, but the Liberal Alliance itself must stand up for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134756	Sir. Naser Khader for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134758	It is absolutely true that poor countries take many more refugees, but the refugees have virtually no rights there. Take Lebanon, there are half a million Palestinians, and they still have what they call temporary residence permits and a foreign passport, and they have no civil rights. That is the challenge. They do not have the same rights as we give to the refugees who come to Denmark. They have almost all civil rights from day one, but they do not have them in those countries. I agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in that the global solutions are important and that you have to show solidarity. But how does Mr. Holger K. Nielsen convince rich countries like Japan, South Korea and Dubai to take just one tenth of the refugees we have taken in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134851-2	I think that is a very relevant question that is being asked. It is quite true that there are a number of rich countries that are deeply unsolidarian, and Japan is a very good example and also Dubai, and there are a number of countries in that area. They're unsolidarian. Surely we must convince them that they must also bear their share of the responsibility. That's why the UN is important to get in, that it's important to discuss this Global Compact. And what I am saying is that when we withdraw ourselves from the quota system, it is absolutely impossible to convince Japan, for example, that they should also go into it. Whether or not we are going to succeed anyway, I should not be able to say, but if we withdraw, it is absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134939-2	We have not been able to convince them while accepting quota refugees. We have been doing this for many years. But is there a solution? How can we convince them? And if the system is solidarity, why are these rich countries not part of the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122134956	Why are they not part of the solidarity system that is built up? That's because those countries are unsolidarian. The question then is whether Denmark should also be among the non-solidarian countries. That's what this is about. We do not think Denmark should be. I think that Denmark is very well aware of the fact that we have a solidarity approach to this international problem. That's also why it was Poul Hartling who was in charge of implementing this quota system. In fact, I think we stand by it. It is not, of course, in many areas that we have such a good fire as they call it in modern modern modern Danish. But in the areas of refugee policy and foreign aid, we have actually had it. I don't think we should throw that overboard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135045	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135048	Thank you. I thought it was nice just to get into this with rich and poor countries. And again on the personal level, as I did before, I sometimes experience a tendency that some who have less than me want to help more than I actually can with more resources. That is why I am thinking that this may not have anything to do with the economy at all. The discussion has a little to do with whether it has anything to do with money, but that is not really how I understand the decision of the government, that is to say not to accept it. I do not really hear economics there as an argument. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135126	That economic argument seems to us to be extremely exaggerated. After all, we cannot accept all the refugees in the world, we know that we cannot, nor should we, it would be bad for all parties, but continuing to be in the United Nations quota system seems to us to be an extremely important task, both in relation to the people concerned, but also in relation to the solidarity that is so important internationally. That's why it's an extremely bad signal that we're pulling out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135201	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. I should like to ask whether the Minister wishes to speak, because she is entitled to do so again. No. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak on this item on the agenda? There isn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135235	The debate is open, and Mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democratic Party is the first rapporteur to come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135302	The draft law has a number of elements in it, but is primarily designed to avoid watering down the corporate tax base in EU countries and to ensure that companies' profits cannot be transferred to tax havens. The draft law translates some recommendations from the OECD to introduce different EU measures against tax avoidance. Firstly, then, there is the tax avoidance directive to be implemented by the legislative proposal, secondly, a directive on tax dispute resolution and, finally, a common set of rules on VAT on vouchers. It is at the heart of the Social Democrats that we, as a country and as part of the European Union, are constantly working to ensure that proper taxes are paid and that it is not possible to move its profits to low-tax countries or to tax havens. As always, we support progress in this regard, and so we will support the law here too. The CFC rules thus Controlled Foreign Company Rules, which are part of the Act, are intended to prevent the undermining of the corporate tax base. An example may be cases where foreign capital funds buy up Danish groups and then place the loan costs in Denmark, where deductions can be obtained, and place the income from the loan in a low-tax country. The rules on when the CFCs are being taxed are being tightened up with the legislative proposal, so that CFCs tax is applied when one third and not half of the income is CFCs income as before. The proposal also contains a general anti-circumvention clause in which the tax authorities can ignore arrangements that they consider not to be real, but only to avoid tax payments. This is something that has been discussed, i.e. whether there was a kind of legal uncertainty for different companies. And that will probably continue as part of the dialogue in connection with the examination of the bill. But in any case, it has become the case that the Tax Council has to decide on the application of the circumvention clause in Denmark, so that we can sort it out in a way and have a clear process for it. There have been various questions and criticisms before the treatment here from Danish companies, which among other things. points out this problem of legal uncertainty in some of the actions. At the same time, changes to the CFC rules may mean a higher tax for some companies. We have also had a technical examination of the bill in the Tax Committee and have also been able to follow how the Ministry of Taxation has conducted dialogue with various of the companies concerned. Perhaps that is why the legislative procedure has been postponed by a few rounds. Various clarifications and concessions have been made and we would call for dialogue with business to continue in the further legislative process. We agree politically with the government to implement the bill. And in relation to this very professional and very technical discussion that is going on, I must also say that it is complex matter and that we must lean on the information and assessments that come from the Treasury. We would like to contribute to the fact that questions and objections from the business community are raised in committee, but as a starting point we will support the cuts and assessments made by the Ministry of Taxation's experts with the aim of ensuring that the law is put into practice in a way that complies with the directives and at the same time provides as safe and predictable conditions for businesses as possible. Part of the proposal deals with matters relating to VAT on vouchers, for example. on hotel nights. And again, in some of the hearings I have answers, among other things. from the Danish Occupation received some rather strong objections in relation to the proposals and their entry into force. This is also something that we need to look at in committee, in other words how it can be handled and whether there is a need to change the date of its entry into force. However, summing up, the Social Democracy can support the bill. And then we shall see whether the committee procedure and the dialogue with industry give rise to adjustments before the third reading. We will be open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135706	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122135714	Thank you. It has to be said that this bill is one of the more complicated of the kind. I have been a tax rapporteur since 2011, and I believe that this is probably the proposal that has been the hardest to deal with. And I have to tell you honestly, it's pretty hard to figure out. Typically, when we have a difficult and complicated legislative proposal, it is always good to be able to lean on the consultation answers so that you can see whether the industry agrees after all. There is, of course, a commentary on the consultation answer, which must be the easy version, and it can be said that on this matter it is 138 pages. Just from one of the stakeholders there is an commented consultation response of 88 pages. It may say a little about the fact that this is not the most easy reading we are dealing with here today. So I have to apologise in advance if I may not be 100% into all parts of this bill, because I must honestly say that this is what I have seen as wildest since 2011. However, it can be said positively that it is gratifying that there is, after all, a good dialogue with the industry in order to find out how we can do it, because if you read the consultation answers, you can at least see that there is not much agreement on what we get out of this bill in terms of revenue and in terms of administrative trouble. After all, the bill is about several different things. The first thing I want to address is that we must be able to complain about the double taxation rules. It is true that it is a good thing that we are making double taxation proposals with other countries, but it is clear that, while we are trying to avoid double taxation, there are companies that are sometimes caught up, and it is of course important that we can resolve those disputes. Today, there is EU violence, and in future it will have to be replaced by the EU directive on violence. I have to say that I fully support the resolution of these disputes, but I find it difficult to see the huge difference in this in addition to increased EU integration. Because, as I see it, the difference is probably quite clear that, with the old system, if a court request was filed, the arbitration was interrupted and with the new one it can continue anyway. When there is finally a ruling on an arbitration, it is published what it did not do before. But otherwise I find it hard to see the big differences between them. I would actually just like to appeal to you to perhaps instead of going solo with EU legislation, when you make double taxation agreements, in them that is what the whole conflict is all about, so that you do not quite hit within the dial with it trying to deal with how to solve these arbitration problems. So when you enter into double taxation agreements in the future, you should point out how we can solve it if there are conflicts or if there is a company that is in a mess. I think that is actually very logical. When there are problems with a double taxation agreement, one tries to resolve it in the agreements that have been drawn up and concluded after all. Another point in the draft law is a common EU rule on VAT treatment of vouchers. This is a directive that dates back to June 2016, and one could start by asking: why only now? There is just over a month before the entry into force, so why has it not been dealt with before? We in the Danish People's Party really think that it makes sense for there to be some alignment in this area, because with the uncertainties that exist today, we can totally avoid VAT payments or receive double VAT payments. It is clear that this is not very appropriate. But I think it is a little strange and not fair to the industry to come here now, a little more than five weeks before it comes into force. As we can also see from the consultation answers, it presents some challenges because they cannot implement it and fix their IT systems and other things. That is why I would actually recommend that, towards the second reading, we make an amendment which gives business a fair chance of being able to comply with these rules as well. So it is not to speak against the rules, but actually just to say that there must of course be a fair chance that they can be implemented. The last part, then, is the implementation of the tax circumvention directive, which we support overall, in other words, the aim of preventing cross-border tax evasion practices in the field of corporate tax. We think that is quite clearly positive. It is based largely on recommendations from the OECD, and then a little more action has been taken on the part of the European Union. In fact, I will only go into one of the points, partly because time does not allow it. This is the issue of controlling foreign companies, the CFC rules, and I think it is going to be difficult and complicated, and this is also evident from the consultation answers. For the government's own Implementation Council says it's an overimplementation. Companies say it is so much over-implementation that it costs them 1 billion. kr. extra in taxation. The government says it is revenue-neutral, but that this can, after all, be uncertain. What is quite clear, I think, is that it is at least an over-implementation, in relation to what Sweden and Finland are doing, that is, our neighbouring countries. There is a criticism that it becomes administratively cumbersome and that it is highly discretionary, so that it becomes quite impossible to administer. You sit back a little wondering if you could not do what many of the consultation parties are actually proposing, namely do such a substantive test, so that you try to check whether it is a company that actually has production and that there are employees and premises and everything, and should they be included in this bureaucracy? Or could it not be looked at that if it were now a subsidiary in a country where corporate tax was perhaps higher than in Denmark, that is, where there is actually no reason for one to try to tax evasion, unless one is at least quite bad at planning oneself out of it, should it still be under the same rules? If nothing else, I would like to make it quite clear that dialogue with the companies should continue, because as a parliamentarian I think it is almost impossible to say where the cut should be, and I would also like to say that if we do not expect to find any good solutions for the second reading, I would actually call for an amendment to be made and to take that part out so that we can have some more time with the companies and thus try to find a good solution. For it is obvious that it is, I think, a challenge for the Folketing to vote in favour of something where one says that it is worth 1 billion. kr. extra administrative trouble and where the other, the government, says it is revenue-neutral. At least there are some things that you have to get the drill out here before we have to vote on it again. In conclusion, I can say that we fully support the overall objective of combating tax evasion, but because there is so much disagreement about such a technical legislative proposal between the companies that are affected by it and what the government says, we have to wait for the process that is under way where it is discussed well with the industry before we can see what is going to happen. So I want these to be my final words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140346	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. Welcome very warmly to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140354	Thank you very much for that, President. For the Left, it is important that we have rules that prevent international tax evasion, and that is why, under the auspices of Denmark, the European Union and the OECD, we have rules to combat tax evasion. The draft law we are discussing today intends to implement three EU directives on tax avoidance, tax dispute resolution and VAT respectively. The tax avoidance directive must ensure that there is no cross-border tax avoidance in EU countries. The concrete measures take place in the following five areas: the first is the reduction in the deduction of interest payments. The rules must prevent foreign investors from buying up Danish companies and then placing the loan costs in Denmark, while the income is placed abroad. We are introducing more rules in the area of exit taxation in order to ensure a balanced distribution of the right of Member States to tax companies. Exit taxation ensures that when companies are transferred from one country to another they pay the removal tax that you have to pay and the transfer tax that you have to pay. The bill reduces the repayment period for the payment of the transfer tax to 5 years. CFC rules are the third point. And these are rules that must prevent the relocation of capital, patents or other assets to countries with taxation in order to make tax avoidance. Then there are general circumvention clauses to ensure that gaps in the legislation are not misused to avoid paying the correct tax. The draft law extends the scope to cover the whole of company law and natural persons, and it must combat the abuse of gaps in applicable tax legislation. I'm on the Tax Council myself, and I heard a presentation from a professor who said that you were a little worried about whether this was an elastic in meter, because when was it just that you wanted to use this? With what the professor said, as a model, I suggested to the Minister that the Tax Council should decide on the application of the circumvention clause. It provides better legal certainty for everyone, and it still ensures that you have the opportunity. I am very pleased that the Minister has taken on board this, so it is also part of the bill. The last thing about the tax avoidance directive is rules on hybrid mismatch it sounds a little special, it's not exactly something that's in everyday language. A hybrid mismatch arises when an entity's asset is considered as equity in one country but as debt in another country. It is necessary to harmonise in the category of assets that are deductible and tax-free across borders in Europe. In this way, we avoid speculating on deductions. In future, companies will be denied access to an asset and we may also require companies to include an asset in taxable income. In addition, there is also the Tax Dispute Settlement Directive, which aims to improve the existing complaint rules in relation to disputes concerning double taxation in the EU. Hopefully, this will provide a clearer tax administration across Europe. In addition to extending the possibility of complaining about tax disputes, we will also adjust the rules on cost compensation so that everyone has equal access to cover for the costs of a tax dispute. In addition, there is the EU VAT directive, which intends to harmonise and ensure equal treatment of vouchers in all EU countries, thus avoiding a voucher from being subject to VAT in several countries or not at all to VAT. For the Left, it is very important that we avoid tax evasion, because of course everyone has to pay the tax to which they are obliged. However, it is also important for us to ensure that those who are not trying to make tax evasion are not subjected to heavy burdens which could destroy their competitiveness. And that is why it is also important for us to listen as far as possible to what business is saying in relation to the concerns they have. So we want to continue to listen to the concerns of the business community and we understand that they have a number of concerns, and we of course think that this should be taken seriously. I know that the Treasury is already in dialogue with the business community on how we can meet it, but at the same time ensure that we have robust legislation. Basically, the directives help to create a secure and fair tax system for companies in the European Union, while at the same time improving the implementation of the directives in force in order to avoid tax evasion to a greater extent. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140830	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, whom we need to bring.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140833	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask about the VAT treatment of vouchers. I think we agree that, of course, it is not appropriate either to have double VAT or not to pay VAT. And it is quite reasonable that we support that. But I really want to ask you about the date of entry into force, which is 1 January, in other words, very shortly. Does the rapporteur of the Left not agree that it is a very short period of time to give Danish industry? And how will the Left view an amendment which postpones entry into force so that we do not implement what is in the proposal, but that it is only later, so that, after all, we give industry a fair chance to be able to adjust to the rules we adopt here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122140916	I understand the rapporteur's arguments. In any case, I have also heard the Danish business community be concerned about the part here about VAT on vouchers, in terms of how it applies, in terms of people actually getting used the vouchers and such things. And I am convinced that is one of the things that is also being looked at in the Treasury so that we can have a dialogue about it. In view of the fact that it is due to enter into force on 1 January, I believe that we are obliged to do so under these directives, that is to say that it should enter into force there, and that is why I hope we can achieve it. And I would also like to say that in the Left we attach great importance to the fact that we only make business-oriented legislation with its entry into force twice a year, otherwise companies will have to check out what is now made of rules every month. So we do it in such a way that there are only two dates of entry into force, and it also makes us think it is interesting to reach it by 1 January. But, of course, I will listen to the concerns of the various parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141010	It is true that, in principle, we are obliged to do so from 1 January. However, it is a directive from June 2016, so the government and parliament should have actually had plenty of time to adopt it here. And now we end up adopting it just sometime in December, and afterwards the Tax Administration must sit and produce a guide that can come after New Year at the earliest, that is, after the date from which it should be applicable. And these are not fair conditions, it must be said, which we as legislators give to business. Then it may be that you have some challenges with the European Union, but I think you could say: Hello, we are on our way. The rules have been adopted, but we are slightly delayed in relation to the process and when it should enter into force. So I think that we must be able to solve this, so that, after all, people are given a fair chance to conform to the rules that we adopt here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141057	I would admit that it is boring that we are so far along before we come to the legislative process, and I must also say that it is such a complicated matter, so even though we are now in the process of reading the law, there are still questions on the various issues. I also think that is why it has taken so long to make the legislation, that is because it is so complicated a substance, and also because you have such a close dialogue with the business community on this. But I can easily understand the concern, and I think it is one of the things that we, among others, have. will discuss the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141119	Thank you very much to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141127	Thank you. After all, this bill is primarily about the implementation of the tax avoidance directive. And this is, of course, the EU's way of trying to turn some of the key recommendations in OECD BEPS recommendations into law, which can help to combat the aggressive tax speculation of large multinational companies. In the Enhedslisten, we are pleased with the focus we welcome on the tax avoidance directive, and we think it is a very good and central issue to tackle, as this bill deals with, and which rolled out at European level will also make a difference. That does not mean that we are in any way in the end. There is also a world outside the EU that is packed with tax havens, which, of course, will not implement these rules and which can continue to move on. And here one cannot fail to note the continuing dilution of the EU's blacklist of tax havens, which is gradually approaching a farce, for none of the central tax havens, such as the United Kingdom, are going to be able to do so. Cayman Islands, Panama or, for that matter, European tax havens, for example. Luxembourg, Switzerland or the British Channel Islands are on the blacklist. That is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution on a much better national blacklist from the Enhedslisten side, which we hope will receive broad support from the parties of the Folketing. It is being dealt with on a different day than today. Back to the proposal: we are happy, as I said, and we are also happy to say that the government has chosen to implement it in a most sensible way. In other words, the national rules we have here in Denmark, where they are actually better and more robust than those put forward in the tax avoidance directive, are in fact being maintained on long stretches. So we are actually really satisfied with that. Despite my praise, there are two things that we in the Enhedslisten have done in connection with this very complicated draft law. The first concerns the concept of control. It says: "It is also proposed that the concept of control be adjusted in accordance with the directive. It is proposed that a subsidiary be regarded as controlled if the parent undertaking, itself or together with associated persons, has a direct or indirect interest of more than 50%. of the voting rights, owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights; of capital or has the right to receive more than 50%. of the profits of the subsidiary. The control requirement is thus determined together with holdings owned by related persons. • It may be problematic • It is at least what we need to have examined • because in the Danish rules on when something is checked, for example. has the rule that, on average, the financial assets of the subsidiary in the income year amount to more than 10%. of the total assets of the company. So there may be a possible weakening here. But we will ask about that. The second point concerns the financial sector. It says: "The directive allows EU countries to exempt financial corporations from the CFCs rules if 1/3 or less of CFC income comes from transactions with the parent company itself or with related companies. It is proposed that this exemption should replace the existing exemption in Section 32 (1) of the Corporate Tax Act. 2 where, on application, the Tax Council may exempt financial companies from CFC taxation. ▪ So, it might seem to be a relaxation; at least it could be a little interesting to get the drill out, what some implications it may have, and how it should be seen in the context of the other issues in the bill. However, as I have said, we are, as a starting point, positive, and we are pleased that the government has, as a starting point, chosen to maintain the national rules, where they are actually better and more robust than those set out in the tax avoidance directive. And this is, in fact, a good way to make EU regulation because it is a minimum directive and not a total harmonisation. And that is also why we have the opportunity to maintain higher national standards and take the lead. I can say that with tax rapporteurs from other European left-wing parties, I also have an exchange of experience and a dialogue on how this is being implemented in the various countries. And at least there are other countries where you implement in a different and not as robust way as the government is proposing here. So I would like to pay tribute to the government for the consideration of a bill in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141618	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141623	Thank you. It is just about the blacklist, the European blacklist. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the blacklist is an absolute minimum. There are three criteria and it is designed in such a way that European countries are not included. That is what could be agreed upon. I just think that if anyone is following the debate, it is also fair to say that the reason why countries fall out of the blacklist, so to speak, is that it shrinks over and over again, of course, because the countries that were blacklists come on the greylist. You have simply said: yes, we will meet these three requirements within some time period. When they make that declaration of intent, they get on the grey list, and if they don't, they get back on the blacklist. I think, however, that although I fully share the rapporteur's criticism that it is not a more robust list, it should be said that it has at least had the effect that these countries have promised relief and improvement in these three areas and they do not meet that, but then they will return to the blacklist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141735	That is absolutely right. Then we will have to see how the countries comply with the rules when they are on the grey list. So, what can be asked is: should you really be able to get off the blacklist because you promise or should you only be able to get off the blacklist when you actually get proof that you have done what you can just promise to do today to get off the blacklist? Well, that would be an obvious tightening up to do. In addition, however, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is absolutely right about what is being said. If you have to praise the blacklist, it is because that is the way it is and it is among other things. Therefore, that we on the Enhedslisten have put forward a proposal for a national blacklist that it is actually possible here too to go ahead at national level and adopt a blacklist that is more robust; which holds better water than that adopted in the EU. And that is why, both at EU level, we can work for a better blacklist and in parallel with the work of the national parliaments in the European Union to establish national lists that lead the way and thus exert political pressure. It can therefore be of real importance because it is introduced in the country, but at the same time it is a way of showing the European Union and other countries that they can introduce similar national lists and put pressure at EU level to make a better EU blacklist than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141859	Thanks to Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122141908	Thank you for that, President. As several speakers have said, the proposal here implements a number of measures from the tax evasion directive and the arbitration directive and amendments to the VAT law. It is, as a starting point, very good to ensure more uniform rules on the calculation of tax bases. Having common rules is a much better way of combating tax evasion than a national one, both because it makes it difficult for companies to have special structures so that they can avoid tax payments and because it makes it easier for companies to act under a uniform set of rules. We are also pleased at the fact that the government has been sensitive to the objections of some companies. There has been criticism of the tightening of the tax evasion directive and of the adjustments to the CFC rules, and it is of course important to listen to that criticism, because this may lead to Danish companies being put at a disadvantage in competition with foreign companies. Others have also mentioned the rules on these vouchers and that there are some practical problems in adapting to the rules in relation to IT and other things. There is a reason why we have first, second and third readings in the Folketing. This allows us to learn more about what is, at least in this case, very complicated legislation. We hope that the tax minister, as usual, will enter into a positive and constructive dialogue on whether there are things that can be done even better in this bill. But, of course, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142116	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142120	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur, who perhaps almost answered my question, because that is the same thing I asked the rapporteur of the Left. This is the case with the VAT treatment of vouchers, which is, of course, an EU rule back from 2016, but which we then deal with very late: is it fair to business, which of course has some administrative burdens? The rapporteur replied by saying that it is agreed to do so. So I really want to ask you about the possibility of a possible amendment in which we postpone the entry into force, not so that we may have to change the rules completely, but that, after all, we are only giving the business community a fair chance to comply with the rules that we in the Danish Parliament are putting before them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142201	I find it very difficult to argue against postponing entry into force, given that this legislation has been very, very long along the way and is then finalised very close to its entry into force. That's where I think Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær raises a relevant issue. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the legislation we are making can actually be implemented out in reality without imposing excessive administrative burdens. So I find it very difficult to argue against postponing entry into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142243	The questioner? No. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142253	In the alternative, we are also very positive about the legislative proposal as a whole. The tax evasion directive is being implemented sensibly, and it has been well reviewed by some of my colleagues. I would like to focus on two points. One is what was last mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about a possible postponement. After all, it is easy for me to advocate that this should be done, because it is not me who is responsible in this area; it is not me who is the minister, but if I have to look at it in isolation, I would also say that it would be fair to have it pushed as complex as the bill is. In addition to that, there is an international perspective in which one could well go into depth about the fact that we would like an even better country for country reporting at European level. This is a debate we have had in many places, and it is also one of the examples of the consultation answers, namely that we must pursue an ambitious European agenda, and I am sure that both the government and many of us would really like to be involved. So let's hope we do that. Otherwise, I will enjoy putting my colleague Julius Grantzau into the tax area, because he will be our new tax rapporteur from today, so I have just this speech and then one more left. Thank you for your good cooperation with both the Minister and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142415	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Welcome to sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142423	Well, I can start by thanking you, too, sir. René Gade. I think it was sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, who said this very complicated bill, and I think we can safely say that. I think we all have the challenge that it is really difficult as a layman, as a non-lawyer, as a non-tax lawyer, to understand all the details of this. On the part of the Radical Left, it is clear that we support the implementation of EU law, especially when it comes to avoiding tax evasion. So we agree with the government and the majority here in the Folketing to implement this law and also do so as soon as possible so that we can get started. However, there are two points which have also been raised by some of my colleagues, which we are also aware of. One is the one with the fund tax, where some companies believe that parts of the law can lead to quite a marked increase in taxation. This contrasts with what the government itself writes, namely that the bill must be neutral, in relation to how much money is being demanded. Of course, we need to look at that. That is where we want from the Radical Left as well, as Mr Tugendhat has said. Jesper Petersen said, "Take us up on what the Treasury brings." I understand that there are some amendments and some clarifications on the way, which we will probably support. Because we are not interested in the implementation here introducing a tax increase. The second is that which Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has mentioned, with gift cards or vouchers, to use an English expression, where many of us have received a request from the Danish Occupation that this implementation will lead to VAT on it, and that is not the intention either, nor on the part of the government. So we can also support the fact that we will have a look at it in committee and change it. However, as a starting point, we are to implement this excellent directive into Danish law, so we expect to support the bill with some of the amendments that I think we all agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142624	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122142636	While in these years we see one scandal after another, LuxLeaks, Swiss Leaks, Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, profit scandals, etc., something that I am counting on and also think we are all very offended by the fact that we also see things happening in both the OECD and the European Union. It is absolutely crucial that we agree on common rules, because it is precisely the gaps between our national tax systems that allow both what is happening in the grey areas and is not directly illegal yet and what is directly illegal. That is why one of the most obvious things we can use the European Union to do is to make international agreements, so that it races towards the bottom and the fight of everyone against everyone can be stopped. Because capital is now global and cross-border, and we, as politicians, work mainly nationally, and our tax policies are national. It's just a David's fight against Goliath that we can only solve by having international agreements. The tax avoidance directive is a very good example of this. As the government also writes in the comments on the proposal, Denmark is already taking the lead. I have to ask for some quiet thanks, it's a bit too distracting, especially when I have to praise the tax minister. Denmark already goes very far. We have put a lot of work into the OECD. We have implemented the BEPS rules. We have worked with transfer pricing and many other areas, and that is really, really important. One hair in the soup is that Denmark has had and possibly still has an excessive problem with limited companies. We in the SF have not just tabled a motion for a resolution, but in fact a draft law in several rounds on limited liability companies. For it is embarrassing that Denmark should be known in Russia and elsewhere as a country that can be used as a flowing country for dirty money. It may be that it is not the Danish Treasury that is being cheated. But it is equally unsolidarous when, in this way, you indirectly contribute to the cheating of other countries. We had a hearing in the Danish Parliament, under the auspices of the Industry Committee, on Monday, when just the limited companies were mentioned again. It's also something we've been discussing over at the tax minister's office for years. It is not a discussion that dies out, even if we have a register of real owners. It is a form of company which is too much used for cheating and deception. Nor do I think that the implementation of the tax evasion directive does away with that. So I would like to call on the Minister, even though I know that the Minister and the Ministry and the tax administration are focusing on this that continues to be the focus of attention. It is not fair for Denmark to have that reputation and have a construction that has been too much used for cheating and deception, money laundering and tax evasion. But it was the only hair in the soup. In addition to that, I can also endorse the comments made by the Enhedslisten. All in all, I think it's really good. I think the government's implementation of this is very good and the work that is also going on when our ministers are in the EU and talking to their colleagues. So I have relatively much confidence that they do that to the best of their ability. I have of course also received this request from the Danish Occupation. I will not go into the substance of it. However, I would say that I think it is unreasonable that such a short period of implementation should be allowed for a directive that has been under way for such a long time. So, if it is possible in any way, I think we should respond to their request for a date of entry into force on 1 July 2019 as proposed. I think that is only fair. But the SF supports the bill. We think this is a very good directive. Then I hope that we will also have the opportunity to discuss some of the other things I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143140	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143148	Thank you. After all, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, the aim of the draft law here is to implement the EU directives on tax evasion, and there is also something about the settlement of tax disputes and then the VAT law. Of course, in the Conservative People's Party, we support the bill. We think it is important that we have common rules to ensure that the Danish corporate tax base is not undermined by companies, for example. can move values between other countries. Conversely, it is also important, of course, that we do not put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their European competitors, so that they lose competitiveness. That is why we, the Conservatives, are also concerned about some of the feedback that the draft law has received from industry, particularly in relation to CFC taxation. There are several Danish companies that have said that it can have an impact on an increased tax payment for them and thus also put them at a disadvantage in relation to their foreign competitors. This, in turn, will give them less opportunity to create growth, so that one could actually risk that Danish companies would lose competitiveness and that Denmark would lose jobs. However, I have also been delighted to note that the Minister of Taxation is aware of the problem and that there has been ongoing dialogue between the Ministry and the business community to adjust the bill so that it does not hit inappropriately, and I would like to make it clear from the conservative side that we certainly do not want that implementation to lead to an increase in corporate taxation. So we also support the Minister's continuing dialogue with business so that we can ensure that the directive does not de facto mean increases in corporate taxes for Danish companies. But, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143339	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143343	Thank you for an excellent speech by the Conservative rapporteur. I would just like to ask you about the issue of CFC taxation, where the rapporteur very well outlines some of the challenges. And I fully agree that it is good that there is a good dialogue. What I'm thinking is that there's actually quite a short time for us to have second reading and then third reading, and then it's just: what do we do as a Parliament if we don't find a good solution to it? There I would like to hear what the Conservative rapporteur's position is about, then possibly dividing up the bill and perhaps giving it a round more and a little better time for it to be discussed with the industry. It is not because I am against, because, of course, we need to have some CFC rules so that we can avoid speculation between countries, but when there is so much disagreement, as the Conservative rapporteur himself mentions in the rapporteur's speech, it might well be that we should give the two parties a little extra time, that is to say, the Ministry of Taxation and then the companies, in order to find out the best possible solution, so that we can achieve both that we cannot cheat on taxes, but at the same time also achieve that it is rules that are to be administered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143443	It is quite clear that it is far more important for the Conservative People's Party to ensure that Danish industry is not affected by any inappropriate rules than if it is one or the other date on which this comes into force. I agree that there may be some complications in that it is actually a requirement from the European Union that it should enter into force on 1 January, as I understand it, and that it may not be possible to move the date forward. However, if we are given the opportunity to do so and we have to give a direct priority between whether we want to ensure that this is not going to affect the Danish business community inappropriately, or whether it is a certain date of entry into force, i.e. whether it is a few months sooner or later, then it is clearly important for us to prevent this from becoming a de facto increase in corporate tax for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143528	Thank you for that announcement. I'm really happy about that. I would also just like to say, because perhaps I did not make that clear in the first round, that of course I sincerely hope that a solution can be found in the next few weeks before we come to the second and third readings. However, I am delighted that if we do not succeed, then one of the governing parties is open to trying to go other ways and give some more time to find a really good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143550	But what I am saying is that if it is possible at all and I am sure that the tax minister can explain in more detail the challenges that may lie with the EU's requirements for entry into force... then it is clearly our priority that we should of course first and foremost take into account that Danish business does not get a de facto increase in corporation tax out of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143605	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122143610	First of all, I would like to thank you for the receipt of the draft law and for the discussion that has taken place on the draft law in this Chamber today. Now most rapporteurs have mentioned what the draft law contains, and the Social Democratic Party put it as the largest party for. I would like to add a few words to that, in addition to what the directive or proposal contains. The draft law implements a series of measures with the main objective of countering tax avoidance, ensuring more efficient and faster processes in the settlement of tax disputes and, to some extent, simplifying and, hopefully, uniform VAT treatment of vouchers, gift cards and electronic services. The aim of the tax avoidance directive is, of course, to ensure, as most rapporteurs have also mentioned, the resilience of the EU countries, if such an expression is to be used, to cross-border methods of tax avoidance, which, unfortunately, we see all the time. The fact that we have come so far that we can now introduce common standards in this important area is the result of a long process and has called for considerable investment in international cooperation, which is now bearing fruit. On the basis of the OECD BEPS project, the EU has considered that common solutions must be found at EU level that are in line with OECD recommendations. In this way, the EU countries will take the lead. With the adoption of the tax avoidance directive, we are setting minimum rules to counteract the unintentional erosion of the corporate tax base in the EU and the transfer of profits from the EU to countries with low or no taxation, thus ensuring what the government and I, as tax minister, stress, namely that companies both in Denmark and internationally have equal and fair tax conditions. If you can take money legally out of the European Union and avoid taxation, then you have a clear competitive advantage vis-à-vis those companies that cannot, and you must also ask yourself whether it is reasonable, even if it may be legal. My answer as a tax minister is that it is not, and that is why we are making great strides towards it with the directive that lies here, when not only the rules we are proposing and discussing here today apply in Denmark, but in all the current 28 countries of the European Union, which are, unfortunately, soon only 27 countries. The government has therefore supported the fact that the main recommendations of the OECD have been made mandatory for EU countries, and we have also emphasised that this is a common minimum standard, so that Denmark can maintain our existing rules aimed at preventing tax evasion and dilution of the corporate tax base. I am aware that, in the context of the consultation of the draft law, several large companies and their professional organisations have expressed most strongly what a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned. Dennis Flydtkjær, who points to whether we are ready to vote through this bill and whether we are sure what the consequences and significance will be. Those are wise and right considerations. Industry organisations have also expressed concern at the draft law's consultation on, in particular, the part relating to the CFC rules. What has given particular cause for concern to companies is that the draft law maintains the current Danish CFC rules while implementing the directive's tightening up. So, according to companies, this means that their competitiveness is deteriorating and that, overall, they will have to pay more in tax. If there is a risk that corporate tax revenue will be significantly increased with the bill, the government will be open to adjustments, provided that • and it is of course important that the overall purpose of the rules is not lost, while at the same time what the directive says we must do, we cannot help but do so, because these are the rules that have been decided in the European Union and that we are forced to implement. But within that framework, it is possible to find some good solutions, hopefully. In the light of the criticisms made and in the light of the dialogue with interest groups and a number of specific companies, a number of adjustments have been proposed in the proposed legislative proposal to ensure that companies are not put at a disadvantage, for example. foreign acquisitions. In my speech I also mentioned that my official work up to first reading will seek the consequences of the proposed CFC rules in dialogue with industry, including any derived revenue, positive or negative. This work is in full swing, but is not quite complete yet, but I can, however, announce here and reassure some of the rapporteurs who are rightly concerned by saying that I intend to table a number of amendments with further adjustments in the light of the dialogue we have had. So hopefully it can accommodate most of the criticism. However, as I have said, it will become apparent when the proposals are put forward and dealt with by the Committee on Taxation. The Arbitration Directive extends and improves access to solutions to double taxation disputes in the EU for the benefit of Danish citizens and companies. Among other things, the directive does: the processes in the area are more efficient and transparent, strengthening legal certainty and reducing administrative burdens. As the possibilities for dispute resolution are extended, the rules on cost compensation will be adjusted at the same time so that everyone can have equal access to the costs of expert assistance. This is something that a majority in the Danish Parliament is concerned with, and I myself am doing so as a tax minister, namely that if you are in discussion with the tax administration about what to pay in tax, and if you win a case, you can cover your costs, and that must of course also apply when we are expanding where the fights, the discussion, the legal fight can be. Then the draft law also contains a number of amendments to the VAT law, which will implement a new EU legislation, and the amendments will help to align and simplify the VAT rules within the EU, among other things. simplify the VAT rules for the sale of electronic services across borders, and this is also a proposal which I hope will be well accepted here in the Danish Parliament. Then I would like to comment briefly on some of the points that have been made by the rapporteurs. Sir. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party says it is a big and technical proposal, and so is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Flydtkjær on his excellent report. As Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said that there is a very, very long consultation answer from the CSF alone, and that is why the Folketing is forced to lean on the assessments made by my officials and the Treasury, and we are very concerned about that too. We have already had a technical examination, and we are happy to make ourselves available to answer any questions that may be asked, and if there is a need for a further technical examination of the proposal, the committee must say so, not least because the Danish Parliament does not hear what has been said. You vote in favour of a proposal, and then you stand for it, but the knowledge that underlies it, my officials must, of course, dress the Folketing, and it is an important task that I want them to take on themselves, and they do so as civil servants. Well, then, sir. Jesper Petersen, together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the SF and a number of other parties, will discuss this with vouchers and the implementation deadline for vouchers, and when these rules will apply, and if there is a possibility in the directive to set a later deadline, I would like to look at it constructively. So I would urge the committee to ask that part in writing, too, and then I will go home to the Treasury and see if it is possible to give a longer deadline. If that is possible at all within the legal framework that applies, let us look at it constructively. Danish People's Party and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has raised a general criticism that the deadline is short in relation to dealing with such a heavy bill and a number of different directives, and it must enter into force on 1 January 2019. That is a perfectly justified criticism, and I have to accept it, because it is I, as the tax minister, who decided that we should deal with the bill in this session and not in the previous one, and when we waited to deal with it for this session, it is because last year there were between 25 and 30 legislative proposals, and we had a very, very busy year. So in my assessment of the capacity of the Treasury in relation to such a large and heavy bill, compared to the fact that it would be a proposal that would probably have come in the second half of last year's session, when we had a number of other major legislative proposals, we then made the decision that we had to push this to this collection, knowing that it will of course also be a pressed process. But we must see how far we can go, and I have at least the starting point that I am not asking for this proposal to be put to the vote before we agree on what it means and before the Folketing considers that it is ready to vote on the legislative proposal, and that is when the committee delivers its report and forwards it to the second and third readings. I want this proposal to be examined in depth. That is the explanation for that question. Well, then, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also refers to this question of substance testing and why we are not in favour of it. We have also considered this carefully, and this has been proposed by a number of consultation parties. However, when we do not propose a substantive test, it is because it is the Treasury's assessment that it will lead to the erosion of corporate tax revenue. So now there are some companies who say that this proposal really increases their tax burden, and there we have to make some amendments. If you do the substantive test, you run the risk of opening up something that can actually undermine corporate tax revenue. So I think so. It is fair to consider it, but once I have delved into that issue, I have at least come to the conclusion that I understand that some companies want it because it means that they have to pay less in corporation tax than they do today, but that would not be fair in relation to the purpose of the proposal, which is of course not that you have to pay more, but also that you have to pay less. Well, then, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also referred to this directive, and he is quite right, moreover, that we are overall over-implementing this directive. We are not over-implementing the directive, but our rules are tighter than in Norway and Sweden, and that is because we in Denmark have chosen to have a high level of protection, strict interest rate restraint rules, strict CFC rules. When we take the rules we have and take the EU rules and add them, we will have a situation where we have stricter rules than in Norway and Sweden. I believe that the proposal before us and the balance point, in particular with the amendments that are being tabled, also make sense and that this is a sensible over-implementation. But it is true that we have stricter rules than in Norway and Sweden on a number of these points. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also refers to this issue of double taxation agreements, and if we cannot settle the disputes there? I have promised to look at this in the context of the treatment of double taxation agreements. Can Denmark, as a standard part of our double taxation agreements, have the tools to settle disputes and deadlines for settling disputes there? And we'll get back to that. The SF is talking about this issue of limited liability companies, and we are looking at that, as I said. Then I regret to the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that I was entertained by Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Martin Lidegaard during the rapporteur's speech. I know I have to be careful because I've already had one nose this week, and I don't want it to be more. But I heard what was said, and we are looking at this with the limited companies, which is what makes sense in order to reduce the possibility that Denmark may be a flowing country compared to the limited companies. And we have also tightened up with the limited companies on a number of points, also on proposals from the SF. The last thing I have to say is that I would like to sign for the rose from Mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten. It is not a praise to me in this case, but my officials who have prepared the bill. So I'll pass it on to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122144924	There are no brief comments and I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122144940	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122145003	Thank you. The bill here translates the agreement that is made about better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy into an agreement that my party is in with the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. Specifically, it is a deduction of DKK 40,000. for the rental of leisure homes, 28,000 DKK. by renting a full-year residence and DKK 10,000. as a total deduction of rental income by boat, car, caravan, Camp-Let etc., as indicated in the bill. Of course, the social democracy supports the agreement when we are in it, and we are generally satisfied that we are now getting a guarantee that what kind of revenue is being reported is being made available. This is done by means of an incentive method whereby there will be an increase in the deduction and profit that will result from renting out the dwelling and, at the same time, there will be provision for reporting to the tax administration on the income that has been received, so that we can ensure that this growing part of the economy is properly taxed. We think that both we have seen examples of that, and we are quite concerned about the fact that for a number of years a growing part of the economy has not been regulated in the same way as other parts and that it was ensured that there was an opportunity for tax authorities to check that proper tax payments were made. It is not part of the bill here, but one of the important things about the agreement is that a real maximum limit is introduced for housing rental days per year of 70 days rather than the proposed 90-day minimum, which was actually in the government's proposal. In the agreement, we also secured a number of minor improvements in tax control. In committee we will focus on clarifying some of the elements that are not clearly defined in the text of the agreement, and these are issues that have been highlighted by, among others. The LEO of the tenants and the City of Copenhagen. HORESTA and Dansk Erhverv have also contacted us during the days that we should have the treatment here. Firstly, we are concerned with the regulation in relation to the rental of rooms. Immediately it seems that short-term rental of rooms is not covered by the ceiling of 70 rental days, and we may be concerned that the rental of rooms when it is not covered by the ceiling, so for example. could mean that rooms could be taken out of the housing market, which could otherwise be inhabited by e.g. students, or that it will be a way to bypass the intention with the bill and this ceiling of 70 rental days. It will be really difficult to control if the rules are not as clear as they should be. Secondly, we are concerned about whether the municipalities are left with sufficient tools to check that the rental does not exceed 70 days per year. The text of the agreement provides inter alia: the possibility for municipalities to issue administrative fines and collate a number of registers. However, it is obviously essential that they also have direct access to, for example. Airbnb's information on the number of rental days, and not, as the draft law immediately shows, the amount for which each user rents. This will be important in order to check compliance with this 70-day rule per year. With that in mind, I would like to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122145329	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122145339	The reason for this bill is, of course, that we have made an agreement with the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left on the sharing and platform economy, and this is then a coinage of parts of it. When I say it's part of it, it's because this is the tax part, because it's coming as far as I remember next week. the control part, number of rental days, etc. After all, digitalisation has created many good new opportunities for others. a platform economy where you can rent out your belongings, which is among other things. This will enable better use to be made of resources. You can rent out your car or your house... you can almost imagine that everything you own can be shared with others. That is, of course, quite reasonable, both because it is good in terms of resources and because as a citizen you can make a little extra money. So it's all positive. What is just important in this matter is that it is handled so that it does not become a black economy. It is important that we ensure that we pay the tax we must pay and thus ensure equal competition. For it is clear that if someone can rent out black, it is difficult to compete against them if, after all, you pay your VAT and taxes. This has been the aim we have had from the Danish People's Party in this agreement. We must ensure a good, transparent and simple framework for the platform economy, but also, at the same time, which is almost even more important, ensure that it becomes a white economy in which we ensure that you pay what you have to pay. There we have sought inspiration from the summer cottage area, where there is an automatic report from third parties. You get an automatically increased schematic bottom allowance if you do, understood that if you do not rent out via an agency, you get a lower deduction. So it's depending on the report. With this proposal we actually raise the summer house allowance to DKK 40,000, which we in the Danish People's Party think is super good. This is something that benefits tourism quite strongly. In the area of West Jutland, from which I come, it is, as far as I remember, about 12%. of the labour force in Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality, working with tourism. They do, because you have summer houses that are not only used by the owner, but that you actually share it with others and rent it to both Danes and foreign tourists. This is super good, because it is such an underlying infrastructure that allows you to have a good tourism industry in the areas. So I think that is an incredibly important step to make. According to the same template, some rules have now been made regarding the short-term rental of all-year residences, where such a schematic bottom allowance of DKK 28,000 is made, which is subject to reporting. If you don't do it via a company that reports, you get a lower bottom allowance of DKK 11,000. One thing you have to bring, which is also a positive part of this bill, is that it's actually a pretty big simplistic thing. Because if you rented out your house before, you could get 1.33 percent. of the public assessment as a deduction or a base deduction, which was then taxed as a capital income with a 100 per cent tax rate, then a lower deduction. The owners had something else. They received a deduction of two thirds of the annual rent, but it was then taxed as personal income unlike the other which was taxed as capital income. It's just to say that there were very different rules, which could be quite difficult to find out for an ordinary Dane who wanted to share his home and make a little money. We're gonna get that done a lot simpler now, and I think that's super good. In doing so, we have also created a carrot because it is both transparent and easy to make some money out of this, and at the same time we are also ensuring that the tax payment that we, as legislators, have decided to pay is also brought in. A slightly smaller but also important element is that we also try to look at cars, yachts and caravans, and that you can share them via platform economy, i.e. part-economic services, where there will be a bottom allowance of DKK 10,000, again depending on you do it via an agency that rents. It can, for example, be done. be what you in Denmark know as GoMore, and it can be others too. It's a good arrangement. What we have agreed here is that the income above 10,000 DKK is taxed at 100%, but as a personal income. We can also see the GoMore consultation answers, and they are actually fair enough. We have also talked about in the circle, even before we had the bill, that it was something we well knew there might be some who appealed against and that we should have a discussion on that. I think it would be quite reasonable if we, the parties to the agreement, could try to sit down and see if we could perhaps make it a little more similar to what the summer houses have, namely that it is not said that it is a 100 per cent tax on what is above the base tax, but that it is a 60 per cent tax on what is above the base tax, as it is also for summer houses and for short-term rental of all-year homes. In any case, we would think that this could be one of the areas in which we listened to the responses from, among others, the hearing. GoMore, so we also make it even more attractive to share your car with others and thus also make better use of resources. It is fair to say that this is not just something that I, as DF's rapporteur, am going to do now. That was also part of the discussion when we made the agreement at that time. But at least we in the Danish People's Party think it would be good to have a look at it. These must be the final comments on my part. In any case, I would like to make it clear that we are of course in favour of this bill, which we ourselves have helped to shape through our agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122145846	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122145850	I'd like to ask Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær on the background to this bill. In the run-up to that, the discussion was very much concerned that some voluntary agreements had to be made and, not least, Airbnb was very central in the discussion that Airbnb would deliver income information to the tax authorities, so that you could check if people paid the tax they now had to pay when they, for example. rented their apartment. It is also a discussion we have had in connection with Uber and the pirate taxi driving that has been in this regard, where you are also interested in who is driving around in these pirate taxis, how much money they make and how we can make sure that the taxi can come after them, also in relation to tax payments. After the agreement was concluded, it has emerged in a number of written questions and answers which we have received in the Tax Committee that there seem to be a number of possibilities for the authorities themselves to go out and retrieve these income data without necessarily just getting them from Airbnb, and then the question is: why do you have to make an agreement with, for example, Airbnb? Airbnb that they can voluntarily provide data and where they will then be rewarded in the form of some agreements on rental days and tax deductions, when, in reality, you could just retrieve the information yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150016	It is true that there have been a number of questions about that from Mr. Rune Lund, and it's nice to have that part drilled out. But I also think it has been apparent in the last few weeks, among other things. because we had Finance Denmark inside the Tax Committee, which told us what the possibilities in this area are and that it can only be given at such a kind of macro level, but not at the level of the individual user, because many of the figures would be • I do not know if that is the right term • blurred, in the sense that if for example. If you pay for an apartment that has been rented, through PayPal, you can't see who it is from; you can do that in a lot of other areas, but not so clearly, and it presents little challenges, in terms of whether you can use these figures in a legal way and say that that is what you tax it from. And I do not think that is possible at this stage, but it may be that technological development can be better traced to it, but not at this stage. What remains is what we do instead, and that is where I thought it was a good and great way to do it in the summer cottage area, where you have made agreements or here you could actually impose it on them, because it is a Danish company, but you can't do that when it comes, among other things. is Airbnb, which is not fixed. This is a slightly different discussion, in which I think we are actually very much in agreement with the Enhedslisten. However, we are trying to motivate people to make voluntary agreements where they report what people earn, but also on the assumption that there is a carrot for citizens by giving them an increased tax credit. The aim is to make it a white and legal economy rather than a black and illegal economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150135	I think there is something about the fact that people should be rewarded for complying with tax legislation. But if we just leave it alone for a second, I'll ask Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær: Would it not have been good style on the part of the government to have examined all the legislative options we have in order to get the data from Airbnb that we want before making a voluntary agreement? Airbnb is rewarded with an agreement, because they have been fairly clear, even in the meeting we have held with them in the Tax Committee... do not really bother to cooperate with the Danish authorities without such a voluntary agreement as opposed to other companies such as Happy Helper or GoMore, which do not mind returning the information to the Danish tax authorities via the technical solution that can be made, the API, as it is called. Well, some companies want to cooperate with the Danish tax authorities, others do not really bother, and they are rewarded with such an agreement here. Would it not have been more reasonable for us to start by examining what the legislative options are and what data we can get? Then you could then have decided whether you wanted to make a higher deduction for people who had a house or a car or a boat. There are other arguments for that. But then we would have gone beyond the argument that we had to because we could not regulate because the legislation could not help us with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150258	In fact, we have also had a turnaround in the discussions we had with the government and the other parties that are behind it, and we actually asked whether this solution could be used where the banks were presented to do so instead of reporting. And there was the answer quite clearly from the government that it could not, because in the various payments, i.e. in PayPal or elsewhere, you could not clearly identify where the money comes from, when it is from somewhere further up the chain, you can say, and you cannot see that. You can't see if the money comes from airbnb or a friend who has transferred some money you owed or whether you have traded somewhere. It is not transparent and therefore it is difficult to use it as an instrument for taxing. And then just the last part of it: it is not necessarily alone just to give a carrot to comply with the law. It is also because we think that the shared economy is a good thing, and by providing very simple rules for it, which is actually a large part of it, because it was very complicated before, we can both make it transparent and ensure that people will use it more, in other words use the resources better, and that at the same time they make a good profit on it. So there are a lot of good and positive elements in this way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150352	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150401	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we think that shared economy offers a great many opportunities. The Danes can get better use of their car, their boat or their accommodation. But, of course, it is important that it happens on some orderly conditions when people start renting out their things and that things are reported to the tax administration. We are therefore very pleased with the agreement we have reached with both the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radicals on platform economy. Because with this agreement it has been possible to land the first agreement worldwide with Airbnb for automatic reporting. And why is automatic reporting so important? It is because there are very few errors associated with it. It is easier and less bureaucratic, and it takes place without so many mistakes, so it is really, really positive that we have had such an agreement, and I hope that it can draw a picture that forward-looking sharing economic platforms should make such an agreement with the Danish tax administration when they are going to be in Denmark. That is the way I hope we can have a shared economy in Denmark. In concrete terms, and several rapporteurs have mentioned this, we propose that when renting leisure homes where third party reporting takes place, the basic allowance is set at DKK 40,000. annual. And it has been very different what has been in the past, so this is a uniformisation of the rules, where there have been different rules in the past, depending on whether it has been an owner's residence or a co-habitation or a rental residence. And by this we have some very simple rules so that everyone can find out what is of options. Then we'll make a new base deduction of 10,000 kroner. for the rental of cars, pleasure boats and caravans by private individuals in the event of third party reporting. And in the case of short-term rental of full-year residences, a base allowance of DKK 28,000 is introduced if third-party reporting takes place. And it is the case that alone 60%. of the rental income exceeding the base deduction is taken into account for the taxable income. I am quite sure that this will provide a good opportunity for us to have a shared economy in Denmark under some orderly conditions in the future, and I very much welcome the agreement that the tax minister and Airbnb have made today, which means that we will get automatic reports from next year from Airbnb. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150626	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rune Lund, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122150641	The shared economy is a very good thing, because it is about using the resources that are in a situation where there are some very threatening climate change that we must prevent and avoid, which will be a major task. And, of course, in this respect, it is obvious that we should look at how we can use the resources that we have better, in other words how we can promote sharing arrangements so that we do not have to buy one's own, but instead can use what others have. This will benefit the fight against climate change. In this context, of course, it is also important to ensure that in the shared economy and the platform economy that comes along, we have a white shared economy and not a black economy. And in this way it is good to promote the sharing economy. But you can do it in many different ways. And what comes from this bill is the discussions that we have had about how we get companies to cooperate with the Danish authorities when those companies do not have a permanent establishment in Denmark and are therefore not obliged to provide income information to the Danish tax authorities, such as for example. A public undertaking or an undertaking which has a permanent establishment, i.e. is located in Denmark, does when they pay wages to an employee, where they then send the income information to the tax administration. What do you do if you are dealing with a company such as Airbnb, which does not have a permanent establishment in Denmark, but sort of operates via an app or website and has its permanent establishment in another country? It is, of course, a different situation from that of those companies which may also be part-economic companies such as GoMore or Happy Helper, which have a permanent establishment Denmark and which are therefore obliged to report the information to the tax administration. After all, there has been a dialogue, which has also been read in the media, between Airbnb and the Ministry, and it has been made very clear, and that is also the impression that we have in this way been communicated in the Committee on Taxes that there are no problems on the part of the companies, i.e. from, for example. GoMores or Happy Helpers page, to provide this income information to what was previously called SKAT. It is actually very easy, it just needs to be clarified in which way the information should be written into an excelark, and then it is run through the technical solution called the API, which is the one who talks to the systems of what was previously called the SKAT, and then it all runs in automatically. And we have actually asked whether there would be any great cost to a company such as Happy Helper or Go More, and we have had the clear answer that it is not there. They just need to specify how to deliver the spreadsheet. It's actually the only thing. So what remains is that the only reason Airbnb doesn't do it in line with, for example. Happy Helper, for example, is simply because they do not bother and because they want something out of it and they have got it here. One might then ask whether it might be that we would then have to do so if we have no other option, that is if we have no option but to do as they say, since Airbnb does not bother to cooperate with the Danish tax authorities. It is a little interesting to see some of the answers to the questions I have asked in the Committee on Taxation, where it is obvious, first of all, that, in the context of these negotiations, the Minister of Taxation has not examined all the possibilities and has come to every corner in relation to the legislative possibilities that exist before the agreement was concluded. Secondly, there seems to be a number of possibilities for us to take advantage of in order to obtain the information we are interested in. Admittedly, in a rather more troublesome way than if a company such as Airbnb provided the information through the API and thus to what was previously called SKAT. So, one of the options is, firstly, the one that the Treasury has already used in relation to Uber and the pirate taxi driving that has been. There the Dutch authorities have been asked and said: Hello to you, Uber is resident in the Netherlands. Could you please give us the information on the pirate taxi drivers who are driving around in Denmark? And they said, Yes, we want to. Here you go. And now there's a lot of cases going on in the justice system. That's one way to do it. The other way is a way that is being studied a great deal in Germany at the moment and that is also being looked at in other countries, and it is about what indirect information you can get if you demand of people that they should have a licence, for example. by the municipality before they have to rent out their accommodation. And in order to obtain that licence, it may be necessary to agree to the submission of certain information, and in this way you can obtain some indirect information. The last way is the one that we, among other things, are. has dealt with here in the Tax Committee through a meeting with Finance Denmark, i.e. the banks' organization that emerged, is about the way in which MoneyTransfer and the control project are done in the tax administration, i.e. where you get a spreadsheet from the banks, simply, with gross data. And then you can go in and filter the data in the tax administration for control purposes and possibly collate it with other information and then make an extraction that way. These are the three options that are actually available to get some information, and it will be a little more hassle, maybe we will have to keep digging into getting the information that way. But if you end up getting information or almost all information in this way, you don't actually have to make a voluntary agreement with Airbnb. And if Airbnb and others understood that we are willing to go that way and get the information that way, then it could also be that they fell to the titty and behaved properly and just immediately like other companies said: We provide of course the income information to the tax administration as they want. I and Enhedslisten think we should have used the opportunity to use the legislative tools. We should have made rules that were the same for everyone and not make special agreements with some companies, and in particular not those which have proven to be notoriously those that cooperate at least with the Danish tax authorities. So we're not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151303	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151315	Thank you for that, President. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the platform economy, because the platform economy is fantastic in many ways. It ensures better use of household assets. A family car can be used not only by the family itself, but by many, many others who do not have the full need to have a car. The platform economy gives Danes greater freedom of choice when they can choose to rent one of the many rental accommodations via Airbnb or to rent a hotel room to a greater extent. At the same time it gives the Danes who have a home, a car or a boat etc. new opportunities to make money. This means that Danish consumers have a wider choice, lower prices and a wider range of products and services. This is a really positive development. After all, when the platform economy is so enriching, it is important that we politicians do not put regulatory obstacles in the way that make it impossible to grow. For what we have become rich throughout history is that we have become better and better at exploiting the resources that we have, and that is what is happening with this type of new economy. But, of course, when you make money renting out your home or car or whatever it is, you obviously have to pay tax on the income you get. And, of course, there is no secret that these new economies are challenging some tax systems, which are really designed for something else, and so it is important that we keep up with time, and this proposal is in fact an expression of that, so that legislation will start to come along with time, with new ways of making money. So we think this is a good bill. I think there will be much more of this type of legislation in the future as the economy develops. We support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151549	It has been a debate that has been running almost ever since I joined the Danish Parliament in 2015, this part-economy issue, and in the alternative we are generally very, very positive towards the shared economy, and we see a lot of opportunities in it: it applies resource optimisation; resource consumption; it can be discussed and put to debate; innovation that can be created on the basis of this; new ways of living; and improvements in general. In fact, I could also give a rapporteur's speech which justified us to vote in favour of this agreement, especially since it is now a small year ago that I was really deep down in the issues. The conflict points I can see in it for us in the Alternative have faded a little in my brain, so just when I saw the deal again, I thought this is actually a pretty good deal. At any rate, it is also better than what was first presented to me when we were about to discuss it. Our point of dispute is still the fact that the deductions granted to homeowners, for example, are not so huge, but it is going to be a little too much for us, because there are so many elements in our society today, where we think it has gone in the wrong direction and where a greater inequality has been created in a country that is otherwise incredibly equal and still gone, even if we now have this bill passed. But, overall, we must say that we do not want to support the shared economy in this way, but we would very much like to be involved, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten said, in discussing flexible, agile solutions for both those companies that want to enter the market and, in particular, for those citizens who have to give figures to the tax administration. This can be done in a great many ways, and we would really like to invest in it too, but we think it is wrong to reward, as I actually see we are doing with this, a part of the Danes who, far along the way, have what they need, with tax cuts, where, especially in the sharing economy, we see the imbalances in the housing market. There are plenty of other elements in the shared economy where we could give a tax credit, because there it would hit more right across the demography, but right in the housing market it is primarily the more prosperous, not necessarily the rich, but the more prosperous, who have the opportunity to make use of this, and there I think this agreement rewards miserably. Having said that, I would also like to say that this is a very good agreement in many ways, and that is why there are many elements I would like to say yes to, but overall we must say no, and then we may be able to support it if there are some amendments in committee. In general terms, however, this is a 'no' vote by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151829	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to the radical rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122151838	Thank you. There are many people who believe that shared economy and platform economy is something completely new, but in fact we have had shared economy for many decades in Denmark, namely in the summer cottage area, where holiday home owners have rented their summer houses through holiday rental agencies. That is why it is really nothing new. And that's why I think it was a little genius or at least well thought by the government to say that the system we have at vacation rental, you could transfer to the rental of your car or boat or your apartment or room. I thought that was a good idea. What has been in the summer cottage rental area is that you have received a tax deduction and of course you can still get a tax deduction if you rent out your summer cottage, but only if you rent through a platform or a rental agency, which then informs the tax authority so that you are taxed by the income you have to rent out the summer cottage. In all its simplicity it is, in fact, the system we take and now transfer in some other areas, so that you can get deductions to rent out through, for example. Airbnb or GoMore or another type of company, but only if the company discloses the information to the tax authority, so as to pay tax on the income. We think this is very sensible and we were very quick to support the government's proposals. It took so little longer also to get the agreement in place with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, but eventually we succeeded, and we are very happy about that, because it is of course very important that people pay taxes on this activity; and as it has also been part of the debate, there is, for example, there. hotels and others who pay a lot of tax from renting out rooms, and it is obviously unfair competition if private people can rent out without having to pay tax. So now we are getting things sorted out in this area, and I am very pleased about that, and I hope that it will be welcomed by both companies and citizens. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152053	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152109	I believe that platform economy can be a good complement for us if we agree to create a proper version of it together, but how do we ensure that the new platforms can actually provide room for more free birds rather than creating digital day owners? First of all, it is important to distinguish between shared economy and platform economy, because you don't usually use the word parts about things you make money on. The words come from a chronicle in Jyllands-Posten, which now former LO chairman, Lizette Risgaard, had in right after the government had presented its strategy for growth through shared economy. I'm just gonna start with that because I think we should be a little precise when we discuss this. Everything has gradually become a shared economy. In addition to the discussions we have also had in the Committee on Taxation and with the Minister and actually widely in the public debate, about what kind of a labour market we see the contours of now and which may grow much bigger in the future, in that there are many more people working through these digital platforms and what kind of protection there is, and so on, there is another challenge, and that is exactly how it affects our tax system. After all, the bill here translates the part of the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left's agreement, which is called "Better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the share and platform economy', and that is what concerns the new revised base deductions and the reporting of part-economic income. As several speakers have said, among other things. My colleagues from the Enhedslisten and from the Alternative, there is a good move up compared to what you have to earn from renting out your holiday home, for example. I'm sorry, ministers, it's a little distracting. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen): We need to be calm so that we do not distract the rapporteur. Thank you!). I think my colleague from the Enhedslisten actually touched on the discussion about this bill. Even if it contains other things, you could call this a lex airbnb bill. It just sets a very bad precedent when you make special agreements with large companies because they are not, as Mr. Rune Lund said that he would like to adjust in the way we have arranged ourselves in Denmark, namely by reporting these things. Because of course you can. They just don't want to. At the same time, we are discussing with this bill how to create proper and fair competition, both for Danish companies and for foreign companies, and I also know that the tax minister has been very concerned about trying to create a level playing field, as they say in English. But that's just not what you signal when you make a special agreement, because there's a big player who doesn't want to do what we see other share- and platform-economic companies do on their own or very willingly make available through these APIs, i.e. these technical solutions to report to the tax administration. When you make an agreement, because Airbnb's side has had a very great interest in getting as many nights as possible and getting the highest rate of deduction and that is of course very natural and expanding its business as much as possible, we see that there is pressure on our housing market, especially in the large cities where these services are also most present. And the municipalities have no opportunity to lower it below the border. One could have chosen a different level and then let the individual municipalities say: we actually need more tourism and some more nights, we want to raise it. But you have chosen the opposite and you have said: this is it, and then you have to go up too. This puts pressure on the housing market even more. There is also a distribution economic side of it, for who have these apartments to rent? Who has cars, camplets, summer houses, etc.? There is a built-in bias in what we from the SF do not think is reasonable. That is not to say that Airbnb and the other services are not really good and really exciting. But this must be done within the limits of fairness, and there we do not think this bill is right, so unfortunately the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152628	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152631	Thank you. What makes me speak is that there is an inherent bias in it, in other words that it benefits those who are the richest and the big cities. As I see it, it is actually the other way around. What these rules are intended to do is, among other things, to: the fact that a deduction of 1.33 per cent can be obtained today. of its public property value and where are the public property values the highest and, at any rate, will be the future with the new valuations? Yeah, it's in the big cities. What happens to this is that instead of getting a base allowance of 28,000 kr. We are, of course, aware of this as parties to the agreement, that is to say that there are some who win on it. Of course we will get the same rules, but a lot of people actually get a significantly lower deduction than they do today because of this rule: that the public property valuation simply disappears. So, as I read it, it is actually exactly the opposite of what the SF rapporteur is reading in it. So I just want to know if she can't confirm that the most expensive houses will actually get a much lower deduction than they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152734	It is true that in the past there were some absurd examples that we learned about, because some very, very expensive occasions could just use that kind of calculation, and it totally ran away. We were presented with examples that some could earn several hundred thousand kroner, and that was by no means fair. So I fully agree that we should not be able to do so. But when I say that there's a bias in this, it's because I still think that you could have made an agreement that didn't set the ceiling so high; that didn't set the possibility of deduction to this level. 'Cause you're gonna have to have, for example. a condo to do this. I have here some consultation answers from LLO and Danske Udlører. This is then LLO, who writes: "It is LLO's overall view that the period for short-term rental is too long, that the new rules do not ensure that tenants can use part-economic residential services.....Sort of the same writes Danske Udlører, and they also add that the proposed rules are not adapted to the rental law. And at least in the consultation form we received from the Minister, I do not think there was a very clear answer to some of the concerns they have about how the lease law should be seen in relation to this. Well, the Land Organization of the Rents, the LLO, thinks this is wrong, and I understand that, because we're heading towards an economy that's very much about what you own, and you can capitalize on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122152914	Well, I think that you hit a little outside the dial when you say that the bottom allowance, which has been set at DKK 28,000, is simply too high. Previously, there was a base allowance of DKK 24,000. Well, there's a difference of 4,000 kroner. But on the other hand, you lose the possibility that you could get 1.33 per cent. in the deduction of its property value, which will typically be an incredibly high amount. So that's the balance. We have made the rules simpler, but it is not actually some huge tax relief for the Danes. Maybe some parties could have hoped that he wasn't here next door. So this isn't some giant bias. I mean, if you have a house you rent off $50,000 and the house has a value of $3 million. kr., you actually lose money on this deal. Do you have a house that might be more imagined in the big cities, or an apartment with a value of 4.5 million? DKK, which you rent out to DKK 100,000. A year, you lose on this deal. If you rent more than that, you make money from it. I think you may have read it wrong or you are trying to have a political debate about something that is not there. Well, you don't get a huge tax relief out of this. We are making a alignment of the rules, and that is very good, because then it will be easier to see through as a citizen, so that you can better rent out on the basis of transparent rules. That's a good thing. However, there has not been any huge tax relief in which we make incredibly high deductions. It is because we are cleaning up the old rules, and it is true that we are increasing the schematic bottom allowance, but at the same time we are removing the other very lucrative rule. I actually see this as very balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153035	But then I hear it as if DF's rapporteur thinks that we should start from what we had before. And what we had before was almost wild west conditions, because there had been so much upheaval in relation to the rental market, especially because of Airbnb. We just don't think it's fair when you look at the total income and income of people in this country, that it should be the case that you get so much prized for having capital in the form of car, cottage, condo, houses or other. That is why we simply wanted a significantly lower limit. And it's not to say that we don't get rid of those extreme cases we saw before it's fair enough, but we don't think it's fair that you can profit in that way. You know, if you're an employee, you're also gonna have to pay back taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153136	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153147	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here is, of course, the implementation of the very good agreement we have made here in the Danish Parliament on simpler rules for the sharing economy. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very positive about the shared economy because the shared economy contributes to the use of our resources by consumers, for example. cars, boat or housing, better. It actually helps to make Denmark richer. This is a development that we would like to support and, as platform economy and shared economy grow, it is also necessary to create clearer and simpler rules. That's exactly what we did when we made the deal in the spring. And that is the agreement we are making now. The agreement provides for tax advantages for those using a platform or a third party where reporting is automatic. In other words, we give a carrot in the form of a higher base allowance to those who use a platform that targets the correct tax reporting. We think this is a very good solution, partly because it will shift some of those who are hardly paying tax today to be taxed, partly because an increased base allowance for example. short-term rental will promote the sharing economy. It has to be simple, because when some people do not pay the correct tax today, it may of course be due to cheating, but I actually think that in very many cases it is just because the rules are too complicated. So we support a simplification of tax legislation, we support shared economy, and that is why, of course, we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153330	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we've come to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122153342	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the very positive reception of the bill. The draft law, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, translates into the new and increased base deductions and the reporting of part-economic income, which is part of the agreement made by the government parties with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, the agreement called "Agreement on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the share- and platform economy." As I have said, the draft law must be seen in the context of two other legislative proposals implementing the agreement. One is about controls and sanctions relating to the obligation of residence and belongs to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and the other is the bill on changes to the rules on short-term rental, setting a ceiling for the rental of one's own permanent residence and belonging to the Minister for Business. They will be dealt with later in this session of the Assembly. We are forced to deal with this bill now because we have decided that the rules must come into force quickly. The sharing and platform economy is an area in which the government has a strong focus. This is not least due to the rapid development that the region is undergoing in these years. I see the share economy as an opportunity as a tax minister to make us richer as a society and give all Danes more opportunities and more freedom. As Minister of Taxation, I am particularly concerned about promoting the shared economy in a way that allows companies and tax authorities to go hand in hand and that thus promotes the shared economy while ensuring that the right tax is paid. In fact, I think we have found a fine solution to the challenge of the draft law and the agreement that has been made. With the rules we propose, it is made more attractive for the individual citizen to rent a leisure home or a full-year residence through a rental agency or a shared-cost platform, while ensuring that the tax is paid. How do we do that? We do this by providing the landlord with an increased base allowance when, at the same time, a report is made on the rental income to the tax administration. These are the so-called third party reports. In drawing up the new tax rules for the short-term rental of leisure and full-time accommodation, I believe that we have at the same time achieved a new tax on short-term rentals which is simpler and clearer than the current rules, as Mr. After all, Dennis Flydtkjær explained that something is personal taxation, something is capital taxation, and that there are different rates of deduction and another very impossible jungle to find out for an ordinary taxpayer, which is not fair either. We will also make it more attractive for private individuals to rent their car, boat, if you have a caravan like this to a lesser extent, and therefore we propose a common bottom allowance of DKK 10,000. for income from letting them when reporting from third parties to the tax administration. Sir. After all, Dennis Flydtkjær raised the concerns raised by GoMore in their hearing answer that this is actually a violent tightening that will make it probably not attractive for them to choose this easy schematic way of calculating it. That is not the purpose of the agreement, and that is why, if there is a majority in favour of it in the contract circle, I would like to look at it if it is wanted to do otherwise. I am fully prepared to discuss this. That is also why we have a consultation process: that is for us to sit and negotiate and discuss something in a closed room, and then it is sent out for consultation, and then we can correct the legislative proposals. But my starting point as Minister for Taxation is that when we have an agreement, that is what we are implementing. However, if there is a wish, I would like to discuss whether we should do something different. So I would like to make that commitment. The draft law will extend the scope of the current reporting on recreational accommodation to cover also reporting on the rental of full-year homes, cars, pleasure boats and caravans. Following the bill, foreign companies will be able to report the information that would be subject to reporting if the foreign company had been subject to reporting. This ensures that the foreign rental company is given the opportunity to report information to the tax administration in order to ensure the owners of the leased asset the same bottom allowance that could be secured through rental through reporting Danish companies. As we are now in the process of reporting, it is clear from the political agreement that the tax authorities will seek to enter into agreements with sub-economic platforms on the reporting of users' revenues through a digital reporting solution developed by tax authorities. It must ensure easy and correct tax payments for taxpayers. The biggest player on the market in Denmark is Airbnb, but that is the opposite of what Mr. Rune Lund does not say an agreement that applies only to Airbnb, it applies to all: booking.com and the platforms that otherwise may be. Everyone can apply to enter into such an agreement on reporting with the Danish tax authorities, but Airbnb is the biggest player on the market, and therefore it is natural to start with them instead of with a small one. Therefore, I also welcome the fact that in May we have made an understanding agreement with Airbnb as the largest player in the month of May, and the agreement specifically means that Airbnb will integrate the digital reporting solution into their platform, so that all rental income is automatically sent digitally to the tax administration, in 2021 and before, if possible. This will help ensure correct tax payments for the Danish Airbnb users, which make up the majority of the market. The new base deduction shall be subject to reporting from 2021. Until then, the tax administration will seek to enter into agreements with the sub-economic platforms to provide data on rental income for the years 2019 and 2020, which can be used for targeted control. Well, if you get some information, you can see and check if it's the right information and find out who actually has some rental income here. We cannot do that today. Then we can also make sure that the right tax is paid in 2019 and in 2020. If the tax administration receives control data from third parties in 2019 or 2020, it will be possible to verify and ensure that citizens have self-declared and paid the correct tax. Thus, the Treasury and Airbnb have also been in continuous dialogue on the possibility of concluding an agreement on the provision of data in 2019 and 2020, and, as I have said, efforts are being made to tie a loop to it, and I have also given a confidential briefing to the Tax Committee prior to the first reading of the bill here today. However, the prerequisite for the agreement we have reached is that there is a written commitment from Airbnb that if we adopt these rules, they will also make reports when a solution has been found, in 2019 and 2020, and I am confident that we will achieve that in order to comply with the political agreement. At the end of the day, I can talk about Mr. Rune Lunds and Enhedslisten's concerns say that I have been around the Dansk Folkeparti and GoMore that there are some rules on data protection that we have adopted and that it is not that easy for a company that does not have a permanent establishment in a country to share information with the Danish tax authorities, even if they wish. After all, it is a consequence of the rules we have adopted that we must not just share all sorts of information, but that it must be objective and justified. And if you don't follow the rules, you risk getting a big fine. It might be worrying to have some sub-economic platforms if they are based in, let us say, Ireland, because it is not the Danish data protection authorities who have to decide whether they have violated the rules and have to have a huge fine, it is the Irish data protection authorities. So I understand that there are some companies that say: we have adopted some rules on what information we have to exchange about our users, basically in order to provide them with protection, and there we have to make sure that law is in place before we can share this information. So it's not as easy as Mr. Rune Lund gives the impression. I would just like to say: yes, we could have used all our powers to investigate whether you could force this reporting obligation on someone and whether you could change rules and other things, but we've looked at it and it looks very difficult. I believe that if we are to embrace new business areas, if we are to develop our country, if we are to become richer, we as politicians must not always take the rigid rules, the bureaucratic rules we have adopted and drag them down on new business forms. Sometimes we have to say: Is this the wise thing to do? In this case, the answer is no. So what can we do? We can do something else. This is an agreement that will ensure that taxes are paid so that we achieve what Mr. Rune Lund wants, and I think that we are achieving it to a much greater extent too, to an extent where we get growth and prosperity and jobs in Denmark • as a result of us changing the rules a little for the sake of some of the other ways of doing business. So it's a much smarter way to do this, to make sure that the right tax is paid, while opening up new business areas, and so the sharing economy can flourish, than just pulling down the known rules over some new business forms that they don't necessarily fit into. But there I think the government just has a different approach to these things than Enhedslisten, and it's fair enough that we don't mean the same thing. In relation to SF's and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's concern about Danske Udlørererer, I have just read the Danish Landlords' hearing answer, and what Danske Udlørerer points out is true when they believe that there are some disagreements with the Rent Act. But Danske Udlører has a wish in their hearing answer, as I read it. They are concerned that if you are a tenant of a dwelling, and you then rent it out via Airbnb or another platform, you must take more in rent, i.e. simply earn on rent in relation to the rent you have to pay. They find it unsatisfactory that they do not get a share in what their tenants can earn, but I do not really think that is unreasonable, to be quite honest: I do not think that is unreasonable. If it is up to me, the landlord must have the opportunity under the rules that apply to rent out their accommodation, earn some money, so that they can go on holiday, afford to have a summer house or get a slightly larger car, just like people living in owner's homes. So I think that the criticism that is at least being made by Danske Udlører is wrong. With these words, I hope that we will have a good reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154416	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154422	The tax minister himself says so: the prerequisite for the agreement with Airbnb is that these laws are passed in the Folketing. Well, it's Airbnb, which is the whole focal point around this. And this isn't a smart and easy way to do it, but it's a really messy way to do it. For instead of having a legal basis that all companies can work from • whether you rent your accommodation out via third parties or what you do, you have the same thing, you could have the same deduction, and there would be the same returns • right now we have a situation where every time a new rental portal comes up, you have to make an agreement, so that they bother to submit the information via the electronic solution, the api that is being established. This is an enormously troublesome way of making legislation, and this has some further complications as well. After all, this is not just about renting a caravan or housing, it is about the platform economy as such, and as a parliament, as legislator, we are making legislation and reporting solutions that work, that are streamlined, that are running on track for all companies in the shared economy. Are you now going to make individual voluntary agreements with all companies in this shared economy and platform economy? I think it seems like a very, very troublesome and also an unfair way, for which this is the direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154556	After all, it works in the summer-house area, and now I do not remember which of the rapporteurs said that this is where we have got the inspiration from. In the summer cottage area, this solution was made, where, if you report a third party, you get a higher deduction, and it was a self-financing change, even though you doubled the deduction from DKK 10,000 to DKK 20,000. Because there was a huge amount of black economy out there, but I basically believe that if we make it easy and simple and our taxation is fair, people would like to contribute to the community. And it turns out that it works in the summer cottage area, how far, by far, most holiday homes that are rented out are via third-party reporting. That is why I believe that the voluntary nature of this will prove to be effective in relation to the shared economy. If it does not, I will be willing to look to the path that Mr. Rune Lund wants. However, I am now confident that this good, friendly solution, in which we promote the shared economy and get the right tax payment through the way of volunteering, is the fastest and most effective way of achieving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154655-2	I have two questions. How does the Minister actually feel about some companies, for example? Happy Helper or GoMore, who says they just want to hand this data over to the tax administration, because they think it's right to do it, even if they don't get anything out of it, and at the same time there's another company, Airbnb, which specifically says: we only want to provide this information, even if it's bad for us if we can get something out of it? Is it not unfair and unequal treatment of different companies within the platform and share economy? The other thing is: If, over the next year's time, and this is perhaps what it takes to get to the bottom of the legislative possibilities, that there are some handles we can use in relation to simply going out and retrieving this information ourselves, does it change the tax minister's attitude on how to deal with these companies who, so to speak, do not bother working with the Danish tax administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154745	When there is a difference between a company which has a permanent establishment in Denmark and a foreign platform, it is, of course, that we do not have the same legislative means of requiring the foreign person to report because they do not have a permanent establishment. Then we can work to change the rules in international forums, and I would like to take part in that. If new information emerges, I feel as a politician that we must look at it. But I think we have made a good deal, and I stand by that as the tax minister, and I also hope and believe that the broad circle of parties that have signed up to the agreement will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154820	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154824	I want to correct what I expect is a misunderstanding on the part of the tax minister. For what I drew the Minister's attention to in the consultation form, in the hearing answer, was not the substance of what Danske Udlører wanted from other options. It was that they pointed out that there were some problems in relation to how this new law relates to existing legislation. The LLO, the Land Organization of the Rents, had some concerns about the same, and in the Minister's reply to the LLO, the Minister refers to Danske Udlører, who also pointed this out here. So it has nothing to do with the other thing. It simply has something to do with both organisations pointing out some inconsistencies with existing legislation, including the rental law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154917	Let us look at it and get an answer to it in committee. I am certainly prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154926	There are no follow-up questions, and I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122154943	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Nick Hækkerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155004	Thank you. In last year's debate on the foreign and security policy strategy, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I called for the government to respond to the worrying development of support for the values of the free world. In fact, I think it is to be welcomed here that the government has listened and dedicated what one can safely call a not insignificant part of this year's statement to that problem. Since World War II, the United States has been Denmark's most important ally. This has been the case because the United States led the development of what we have called the free world. It was originally a contrast to the Soviet Union and hence the free world. It has developed over the years into standards and values such as democracy, such as governance, respect for human rights, prosperity through trade between countries, a world that stands on the law and the law and not on the law of the strong and brutal, and, of course, international agreements and cooperation in international organisations such as the UN, the WTO, NATO, etc. These are precisely the standards on which our Western democracies are based, which provide security and which provide security and peace. These are the values and standards that have led to a billion people being lifted out of poverty, an increasing number of children throughout the world being educated, a sense of shared responsibility towards our planet and, above all, the world being spared these devastating wars during that period. It is not an exaggeration to say, and this is also the case in the statement, that the world order is under pressure. The United States is withdrawing from its traditional role in trade agreements and climate agreements, and other players who do not share our view of the world order are stepping forward more strongly, not least Russia and China. It is precisely through that prism that I will make some comments on the government's foreign and security policy strategy for 2019-2020, and I will concentrate on four areas: security, the European Union, refugees and migration, and not least China. First, security. NATO is the cornerstone of Danish security and the United States is the cornerstone of NATO. The security of the United States is not dependent on Europe, but Europe's security is dependent on the United States. It is a good thing that Europeans invest more in their own security. You can say that it lacked only other security and by year we should be able to lift our own security. There is still a gap between the EU and EU countries in the parts that Denmark can actually participate in, despite the defence reserve, significant development opportunities. They must be followed, but this is a development that must take place not in contrast to the United States, but in cooperation, dialogue and understanding with the United States. Then to the European Union. Danish welfare and Danish prosperity are on the shoulders of opportunities to trade with other countries, and Danish jobs must be counted in tens of thousands because we are part of the EU. In the statement it is estimated at more than half a million Danish jobs, which are actually based on the cooperation that we have in the European Union. However, as the report also points out, there are areas where the rules, interpretations and court practices have undermined Danish support for the EU. For the Social Democrats, the answer is that the European Union must focus on the problems that concern ordinary people, for example. the fight against tax havens, for example. the free movement of persons is followed up with protection against social dumping, wage competition and fair competition in general, for example. climate and environmental problems. Then we fully agree that the forthcoming EU budget from 2019 to 2027 should cut some of the traditional areas in return for spending more money on migration, research and climate and energy. That brings me to the third area, namely refugees and migration. The Social Democratic Party fully agrees that greater efforts should be made to help in the neighbourhoods. In our own proposal for a new policy in this area in February, we have identified two key elements. The first is that the European Union and the international community join forces to carry out an historic boost to Africa inspired by the Marshall Plan, which the Americans carried out in Europe after the Second World War. That is why it is also good that the statement calls for a shift in the EU budget in this direction. The second element is a comprehensive reform of Danish development aid, which means that within the current overall framework, aid to neighbouring regions is doubled. Social democracy will invest 3.5 billion annually. kr. more in the outlying areas until 2025. It is a doubling of Denmark's humanitarian aid and efforts in fragile states. The money must include: funding emergency aid, better living conditions in refugee camps, increased and improved schooling in the neighbourhood, for education will give refugee children a better future, stronger action for women and children's rights in the neighbourhood and more decent jobs. So to the last element that time allows to address: China. When it comes to China, the current foreign and security policy strategy is inadequate in its analysis and therefore also unclear and uncertain in its direction. In our view, Denmark should take a clear and strategic approach to China's very active foreign policy action and, above all, the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative, which has not only great economic significance but also significant security policy and military implications. In the present strategy, the government is on the one hand trying to suggest that Denmark should have more out of economic growth in Asia and not least in China, and, on the other hand, to take the rather far-reaching but quite important step, namely to make a screening of foreign investment in Denmark, with the possibility of being able to reject them if they concern critical infrastructure such as that in question. roads, ports, airports and telecommunications. It is a relevant road, not least in relation to what we have seen in Greenland, but it is also a difficult road, for what if you imagine private companies or companies investing in, for example. airports or ports, and if they then may subsequently sell their ownership interest to the Chinese? If we are to avoid this, we are in fact left with what was previously referred to as natural public monopolies, in other words some things that must be in public hands. This is an interesting discussion and it is a real discussion and it is, in our view, right to ensure that critical infrastructure is in Danish hands. Last year, as I said at the outset, we had great success in urging the government to relate to the values of the free world that are under pressure. It would be my wish that this year we could have the same success in calling for a strategic reflection on China. On the other hand, it can be said that next year it is ourselves who writes the strategy, and then we can just take it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155738	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155741	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There were some interesting points of view, but there was also, I think, a rather bourgeois and very traditionalist approach to the whole issue of security. Is there not a fundamental idea in the Social Democratic Party that conflicts with non-military solutions can also be dealt with, or is it completely abandoned, because you never mention it? That's one thing. The second point is: should we not take back some quota refugees if we are to show to the United Nations that we want that system to be a good thing? The third thing: should we stay at 0.7%. of aid to development?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155819	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155823	These are three relatively comprehensive questions, so I will see what time allows, but otherwise the rapporteur can ask again. To the first question, whether there are no solutions other than military ones: in fact, I think that a good deal of my speech was precisely about jobs, precisely about what we should do in relation to refugees and migration, where the main grip is, of course, to put in place means of development, where the main grip is to stimulate development in Africa in the neighbourhood, etc. So I think it has to be said that there was the answer in this way: non-military. In relation to two other points I addressed, the one point about security was for good reasons about military security and the other point about the European Union, and there I spent relatively much time saying that the shift in the EU budget towards spending more money is right in our view. So I do not think the premise for the question is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155915	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155918	Thank you. In other words, giving aid to the neighbourhood is, after all, emergency aid in an emergency; it is not really preventive work. Preventive work takes place a few years before, in other words, before the conflict arises. And non-military conflict resolution is therefore considerably more than helping in a refugee camp. It is also to be out and active diplomatically and to ensure that we have development aid that works, but also diplomacy that intervenes positively and actively before the conflict arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155945	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122155953	And with that we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122160004	Thank you for that, and thank you to the government for the statement on the foreign and security policy strategy, which is, of course, a statement which contains a large number of points with which we in the Danish People's Party agree, among others. around the Arctic with a need for closer cooperation in the Kingdom Community, which can ensure peace, stability and development in the Arctic. It is a front, which must preferably remain a calm front in the world, and which is also an area of the Kingdom community that needs development, including for Danish citizens living in the Arctic. As far as immigration is concerned, we obviously agree with the need to show the Africans that they have a future in Africa and not in Europe and Denmark, and to help them on their way in all the possible ways we can. The statement also paints a picture of a changing world. Russia, China, Iran are increasingly aggressive and unpredictable in their behaviour. We agree with that analysis and we share the concerns about that behaviour. Cyber attacks, aggressive behaviour in Eastern Europe, attempted attacks in our own backyard are some of the actions taken by the countries mentioned. Joint military exercises between China and Russia combined with the more and more assertive behaviour of the two countries clearly demonstrate the need for more unity in the West. The statement states that the United States is withdrawing from its role as leader of the free world. I would say that, in my opinion, this is an over-interpretation which I think we should be careful not to blow up. It is true that the United States currently feels the need to take more care of itself, if that is the case, but I also think that there are very clear signals from Washington and from the American ambassador in Denmark that the United States stands by its commitments to the NATO Pact, and that is why I do not think we should take the time to speak up. When we see the break-up that is taking place in the East, we should not create divisions in the West, because one feels that one can earn some easy political points by indulging President Trump. The government is proposing that we should become more involved in international organisations. As I read the statement, it is primarily about the European Union. We will try to reform these organisations if necessary. To this I would just like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that it is, of course, noble that you want to save the world and get control of these international organisations, but you might also need to look at things a little more realistically. The government wants, for example: a strong, slender and effective European Union and, in this respect, mention our three reservations as being something that stands in the way of us contributing to it. Nothing in the sun, moon or stars indicates that the EU will accept a diet of diets, not at all after brexite, rather the opposite. Therefore, we should not give up our reservations in the hope of being able to change the course of the supertanker. That is simply not realistic. The dreams in Brussels about a common EU defence must and must remain without Danish soldiers. Denmark's security is best ensured by remaining part of the core of NATO, so when the government wants to engage Denmark further in international organisations, the Danish People's Party's call to the government is quite clear: Put the eggs in the NATO basket. Make sure we make a plan for how we can fulfil the promises made by changing governments to the alliance. The pressure from NATO to ensure a more robust Danish defence budget is quite reasonable pressure, for it is the result of promises that Denmark has made to the alliance itself. So when doubts were raised about the commitment of the United States to NATO, we should not start to set up an alternative in the form of an EU army, but rather show the United States that we stand by NATO and that promises are being followed by action, mainly because the world situation shows the need for the West to stand together, but also, to a large extent, because an EU defence cannot in any way do what NATO can. The European Union has neither the United States, Canada, Britain nor Norway, countries that have demonstrated their will over time and had the ability to defend the alliance. These are countries that are not part of the European Union. That is why NATO is much stronger than an EU army could ever be. That is why, in the interests of Denmark's security, we must show that we are credible NATO allies. It is in NATO's basket that the Danish People's Party urges the government to lay its eggs to ensure Denmark's safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122160513	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Next in line, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122160523	Thank you for that, President. I am giving the speech on behalf of Michael Aastrup Jensen, the rapporteur for the United Left. I would like to start by thanking the government for a very good and very thorough and comprehensive statement. It is an uncertain world in which we face many new challenges. Uncertainty prevails, despite the fact that an increasing proportion of the world's population has been lifted out of poverty, yet we find that the common ideas and old habits are being shaken. Let me just mention three spectacular events which, a few years ago, would have been very unthinkable but which have taken place in the last year. Assassination attempt at Skripal in Britain, the Bestial killing of Khashoggi committed in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul and, finally, the Iranian assassination plans on Danish soil. In addition, migration pressures remain on Europe. The Balkan route has succeeded in descending, but the chaos that prevails in Libya means that smugglers continue to see a business model in sending migrants to the Mediterranean on a dangerous and hopeless journey. These are serious events and challenges where Denmark cannot just show up and hope the world passes by. It calls for a focused Danish foreign policy. In Russia, Putin is rattling with the sabers and has again changed the borders of Europe. It has affected Ukraine, which continues to suffer from the Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine and the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula. Thousands have died and yet more have been chased on the run. This helps to create uncertainty in Russia's neighbouring countries, who are all too familiar with history and who know what the great neighbour can do. However, it also creates uncertainty for Denmark and the rest of Europe, especially in the Arctic, where Denmark and Russia are joining forces. So far, we have been able to maintain the Arctic as an area with a low level of military tension, and we must go a very long way in order to continue to do so. At the same time, fruitful cooperation within the Kingdom community is essential if we are to hope to play a role in the Arctic. After many years of safe collection of a peace dividend, we need to strengthen the defence of Denmark once again. This is true both in relation to the traditional defence, but also in relation to countering hacker attacks by other states. We are constantly experiencing attempts to hack vital parts of the Danish infrastructure, and therefore there is a need for the government to prioritise resources to address that threat. The cornerstone of Danish defence is NATO. Over the years, Denmark has made a very active contribution to the alliance, but we need, however, to look into whether we can settle for NATO membership. There is much evidence that more is going to happen in the area of EU defence cooperation, and Denmark has been disconnected because of our defence exception. It is not necessarily in Denmark's interest to be more cross-checked, because it restricts our own freedom of action, and Denmark misses a fruitful cooperation. In addition, President Trump constantly shakes the traditional almost unconditional security guarantees of the United States vis-à-vis Europe. President Trump clearly makes a point that Europe should contribute more. It is not reasonable for us to wipe the bill for our own security on the American taxpayers. It is a view that Trump shares with changing American presidents, although it has previously been expressed in less brazen terms. On the other hand, concern should be whether Trump can at all see the value of international organisations and agreements. At least there are times when you can get into doubt. Denmark has much to contribute to the international forums in which we participate. Our assistance is focused on a number of strengths, including: in the area of good governance and women's rights. Denmark helps make a difference to the world's poorest through our aid, while at the same time helping to counteract the causes of migration. We can be proud of this, not least because Denmark is one of the very few countries that meets the UN recommendations to provide 0.7 per cent. of development aid. Finally, it is also appropriate to mention the Danish soldiers who are sent to the world's hot spots. They help make a difference while risking their own lives, and that has my deepest respect. So much thank you to the Danish soldiers, both those who have been deployed now, but also those who have previously been deployed on international missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161027	Thank you. There are brief comments. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161030	Thank you. I could see that the Left, together with the rest of the government, will now suspend arms exports to Saudi Arabia. I think it is wonderful that we have listened to the criticisms that have been made and have actually decided to do so. Then the Foreign Minister says it's a small thing because we're a small country. But many cymbals small make a large stream. We are in another area much, much larger, for example. In the whole of the ship transport sector we are world-wide. Why have the Left and the government not made sure that we not only boycott arms sales transport There we could make an effective effort we would actually be the dominant state there if we blocked all the sailing of weapons to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161121	Thank you for the question. I assume that I will only reply on behalf of the Left and not on behalf of the Government. The questioner will have the opportunity to go to the clinch with the government in a moment. I think that we should always consider who we are selling our weapons to, and that is also the process that I see the government is well under way. And we usually do this in Denmark from a good and broad discussion, and we must of course continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161147	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161150	But I also said that we agreed that we should not sell our weapons to Saudi Arabia. I ask: why should we not block arms transportation The weapons going to Saudi Arabia must be transported and often by Danish ships. Why do we not make a law saying that we do not want to transport and that our ships should not carry weapons to Saudi Arabia? Then we could play an effective role.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161218	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161221	Well, I think that we play an effective role when we try, together with our collaborators, to stop and stop. When it comes to whether we should take this step further, it is not a step that Denmark should take alone, because then you will just find someone else who can transport the weapons. So, of course, this is something we need to talk to our good friends about. I think the questioner should put the question to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161243	Yeah, but not now. It's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161247	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that the Left still regards NATO as the cornerstone of our defence policy, but why is it that we want to set up an alternative in the form of this joint EU defence? Why is it that we want to send that signal across the Atlantic that we ourselves can and that we have less need of our great allies in the United States? What is the aim of sending that signal to the Americans?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161316	Thank you for the question. Now I'll try to be really, really clear. I have in no way questioned our membership of NATO; on the contrary, I have said that it is our cornerstone. It will continue to be, but it is also the case that NATO and the European countries agree to make a European wing of this, PESCO, and so we cannot be there. I see it as an important task for Denmark when we are a small country that makes a living trading with others, when we are an important player in both foreign and security policy, that we engage where we can make a difference. And we can, among other things. do in PESCO. We should not say either-or, we should say both- and, and we should do so, because we do not know where Denmark's security starts, and it can easily start with, among other things. further cooperation between the other NATO countries. In addition, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party must also be aware that we also have Nordic neighbours, which we can enjoy greatly, among others. The Baltic Sea region, which is not a member of NATO. We can do something with Finland, Sweden, and we could do that within PESCO. So we should help make a difference where we have an opportunity to do so, because where does Denmark's security policy start and end?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161426	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161428	Fortunately, we are working with our Nordic colleagues in NORDEFCO, the Nordic defence cooperation, so we do not really need the European Union to be able to do that. However, I would just like to come back to the question I put to the rapporteur, and that is: what signal does the rapporteur feel to send to the Americans that we are setting this alternative in the form of a common EU defence, which will be an alternative to NATO? Does the rapporteur think that this will help the United States to get closer to NATO cooperation, or does the rapporteur think that this could be a convenient excuse for an increasingly unstable US government to say that we will just leave it, then we will cut the cord to Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161509	I do not know whether the rapporteur and I read the same newspapers, but I have noticed very much that the Americans have called for Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. I mentioned that in my speech too. In fact, I understand very well that the Americans do not believe that it is American taxpayers who should be involved in paying for Danish security. It may well be that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has that position. I don't think that's okay. On the contrary, I believe that we should cooperate with those with whom we have a community of interests. It is both on one side and on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. It is both with the Americans, but it is also with Europeans.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161545	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122161559	Thank you. It is always interesting when we get the statement on security and foreign policy, because then there is a chance at least in one area to disagree with the government. I think things are going very fast the wrong way. I think we are helping to create a tendency towards tension, a spiral of armaments galloping out there, and we are partly helping to create the situation with tensions. I think we could not do that, which is why I think we should try to look at a new world order. I am surprised, for example, that it states that the United States still thinks it should be the world's leading power. What is that old-fashioned view? It is a view based on the fact that a great power can save things. I think that with the new President of the United States, the President of Russia and China's influence in many places, there is good reason to say that we need to have a more collective leadership of this world community and take account of all people and not just for a power, two powers or three powers to dominate it all, and there I would like to strike a blow to Denmark trying to say that there are very many countries that have interests. It is also something that has begun to permeate Danish foreign policy. You can find a lot of wordings where it says: Denmark first; for Denmark's sake; and for the sake of Denmark's economy. Fortunately, 10 or 15 years ago, when it came to discussing Danish foreign policy, it was human rights, then democracy, then it was peace, it was good neighbourliness and that kind of thing that was the dominant thing when we discussed it. It becomes somewhat selfish when it comes to what benefits Denmark most. It also provides a brutal language that I do not really like. This applies, for example, to the mention of irregular migrants, etc. The way you describe things is in itself elevated. I believe that the relationship and the bad neighbourliness that we have with Russia and I am certainly no Putin supporter and will never be, nor will I ever be a Trump supporter, we ourselves are partly to blame, and I believe that there are many exaggerated analyses in this paper of the role Russia plays. With non-military means, with proper diplomacy, with wise foreign policy, we could have gone much, much further. Russia is where it lies, and Russia will always be our neighbour, and it is right and proper to pursue a policy that we are doing now, a policy of confrontation in which we ourselves are helping to arm ourselves and at the same time accusing the Russians of also arming and being aggressive. We do our own exercises close to the Russian border. I have no words of praise about Russia's actions, but I do not have it about the way NATO and Denmark act on those issues either. I would like to say something about what we could do. We could, for example. prioritize non-military conflict resolution efforts, which are not just about our embassies, but generally about diplomacy at all levels. Countries can play a conflict-solving role and a peace-promoting role without military intervention. It is embarrassing that Denmark is one of the few countries in the Nordic region that does not have an institute for peace and conflict resolution that could dress the Foreign Minister, the Secretary of Defense and others when they were going out into the world. I think we should try to consider re-establishing that institute so that we could have a much more comprehensive analysis than we currently have, including in the Folketing. Then I would like to say that we disagree with the plans to equip up to 2%, and this paper is imbued with the fact that we are likely to follow the expensive and dangerous solution. It is a cold war spiral which has now been set in motion and which must be supported by the analyses contained in the paper. We are opposed to Danish arms exports and welcome the fact that weapons will not be sold to Saudi Arabia, but we also believe that weapons should not be transported to Saudi Arabia. It is fine words and a very easy solution to say that we do not want to export weapons, because if we really want something, it could also cost a little, for example. compared to the fact that our owners might lose some earnings, because there is a lot of money to make on the grey and black markets. Then we say 'no' to the lifting of the EU's defence reserve, no matter how wild our defence minister is with the repeal. Nor are we in favour of abolishing the reservation of the law and the reservation of the euro. We believe that development aid should be increased to 1%. plus 1⁄2%. climate aid, and it must be used, not as we are doing now, for business support, but for the fight against poverty, for education, for climate, democracy and the development of human rights. We have seen an unfortunate development that started with a first-class company, GGGI, which we then fortunately stopped again, and the Prime Minister then tried 3GF, but he had to stop it again, because there was no music in it, and now he tries with P4G, where you try to say with business you can do a whole lot about the world goals. I think it will have the same wretched fate, because that is not what is changing the world, that is to say, that you stumble around on the floors with fine masters; it is concrete development aid that works; it is concrete development aid that is down to the level where we build schools, where we help to build democracy, where we prevent disease and where we create jobs. It is not where we fill money in the business world, which must then first and foremost have profits as a priority. Then this report mentions cybersecurity. It is an important effort, but why in the world can we not listen a little to IT experts and then leave it in a civil organization instead of in the intelligence service. It's a sick place to put things like that. After all, cybersecurity is both about foreign policy and about security policy, but also about daily business policy, and that should lie in a civil entity. The government also deals with free trade. I am not in favour of free trade, I am in favour of free and fair trade, and there are many nice words in some of those trade agreements on social matters, but go to Colombia, where we have a free trade agreement which has not yet met the social conditions set out in the trade agreement. Several professional and social leaders are shot every month, and these are the conditions that we condone and do not feel guilty about because trade counts everything. When the trade agreement was concluded, we were promised in this Chamber that, if we were to continue to have that trade agreement, human rights and other things would of course have to be respected in Colombia. Not one has lifted an eyebrow to speak against Colombia's paramilitary groups and others who kill civil society representatives. I am very much in favour of the paragraph that the government will defend rule-based international cooperation, that is. the conventions. I think that the talk that has been in both the Social Democratic Party, in some of the Social Democrats, and especially in the Danish People's Party, is disturbing. It is problematic if we cannot base international cooperation on the conventions we have, and we must continue to do so. I think there is a strange attitude towards the European Union in this paper. It is as if the European Union can save us from everything. In this context, I would like to say that when there was an economic crisis in Greece, the European Union made it worse for the working class down there, while, of course, they saved the banks and gave the richest little help. When, in 2015, refugees, as the paper says almost directly, swept across the borders, the EU was totally undressed and could not react, because they were destitute. Individual countries had to step in at that time. When financial scandals run across Europe, money laundering, etc., the EU is totally undressed. I believe that if an undertaking such as what you call solidarity in the European Union should function anywhere and should be, as it says in the paper, for the benefit of people, then they should be able to cope with such things, but the European Union cannot do so in the way they are built up. On the contrary, the single market has created the biggest problems we have in the labour market for 20 years, namely huge social dumping, and now also that we from third countries, for example. from the Philippines, getting labor here under slave-like conditions. That is what the EU's lack of construction has paved the way for, and that is what the internal markets are precisely promoting, and I think that we should think about this before we rejoice so much at the functions of the European Union. Then there are the refugees, and there I think it is sad to see that the high fences are still missing, and we will come to if we do not find another policy to prevent the flow of refugees, to build higher and higher fences and to use more and more military to keep refugees out. It is not sustainable and it will never hold on to the long track, it will only hold as an emergency solution, and so I would ask you to make a preventative refugee policy which holds and which is also visionary for those people who have no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162703	Thank you very much, sir. Christian Juhl. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162709	Thank you for the floor. There is a geographical connection between the part of the world where people can enjoy their full human rights and that part of the world where the US Airforce has unlimited air control. What I want to ask is whether this is a random correlation in the rapporteur's view or whether there is a causal link.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162738	I don't recognize that picture. I have worked a lot with Latin America and know that where the United States has moved has often been in countries where people have been totally indifferent to human rights, where my colleagues as trade union representatives have been shot, wound up, or simply disappeared, where human rights activists have disappeared in tens of thousands of people in Central America. If that is the picture we are going to have of the United States, it is not so much a matter of human rights. It's more nuanced than that. In some places there are human rights, in others there is violent repression of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162817	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. In the order here, it's actually sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance, now it's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122162831	Thank you for the floor, President. Of course, I agree with the government in its presentation of the problems and priorities of foreign policy, and I will make some cuts in the statement. There is no doubt that NATO is and remains the guarantor of the security of Denmark and Europe, and I think this is very important to make clear, even at a time when this assumption is sometimes challenged by different sides. The question of security is, after all, more urgent than it has been for a long time. There have been several examples since we last discussed the foreign policy statement, of foreign states which do not respect the sovereignty of other states. There are Iranian death squads in Denmark which are poison attacks by Russia in Britain, to name but one example. So security is a very urgent problem, and of course we have to deal with it. There are also examples of foreign states which affect democratic elections around the Western world and which are a major nuisance to Danish companies, for example. with cyberattacks. Then there is the issue of the European Union, which I also consider to be very urgent and which I believe we must have a joint effort to deal with here in the Folketing. I spent Monday and Tuesday in Vienna at the COSAC meeting, i.e. this series of European committees from the various EU countries, and there was a very sharp debate on a wide range of issues. There was, of course, a very, very sharp debate on brexit, that is clear. It is quite open whether the agreement that has been reached will fall into the House of Commons or whether it will not. There were British parliamentarians present who could not, even unofficially, give any guess as to whether it would go one way or the other. So in this way, the necessary cooperation in the European Union is under pressure. But it's not just because of brexit. There is some kind of North-South problem which also arises at such a parliamentarians' meeting as I have mentioned, and then there is some kind of East-West problem which has to do with the whole question of migration and which really boils our minds, and that is something that cannot be avoided. Because there is really a great need for the European Union as a regulatory infrastructure about the way we do things in Europe and the way we act together, and it is not nice to think about how relatively easy it may sometimes seem to be to destroy this cooperation in comparison with how difficult it is to build it up. There, of course, we also have a lively debate in Denmark. The question of social benefits is becoming urgent over and over again. It is, of course, very important here to focus on freedom and free trade and to seek, together with like-minded countries, to avoid the EU turning into a social union. After all, the issue of refugees and migration cannot be separated from the whole discussion about the European Union. Because that is one of the things that really causes a great deal of division. We have an asylum system in Europe which simply does not work very well. The solution is not redistribution, but it is therefore a joint one to curb the influx into Europe, and I have to say here that one thing that could perhaps be discussed more on the whole issue of refugees and migration is how seriously this issue has already had a bearing on the internal political situation in several different countries in Europe. In Germany, there has been a tendency for the political centre, not to say that it collapses, but at least it is weakened and the outside wings are getting stronger, and in Sweden the paralysis of action prevails, and it will certainly do so for a very long time. So this whole question is a very, very serious issue, because not only does it have the potential to weaken the European Union quite strongly, but it does, you can see, indeed also have the potential to lead a major domestic political weakening around the European Union. As far as free trade is concerned, there is no doubt that the international system we know is under pressure. Many things have been said about this already. One thing that has not been mentioned, but which I would like to mention and which calls for some concern, I think, is that it is not entirely unthinkable that a no-deal scenario will arise. This is certainly a scenario that needs to be taken into account, and it is therefore worrying that the WTO is not working as well as the WTO should. No new judges have been appointed to the WTO Permanent Arbitration Court. There must be three in order for the tribunal to function, and that is exactly the number, and that is quite worrying. After all, it will be the WTO, which will be the body to regulate relations with Britain in a no-deal scenario. So, of course, it is good that we are doing what we can and pushing for the rule-based order we know. Finally, there are very large geopolitical interests at stake in the Arctic, and I think that has been explained very well. It is important to strengthen international cooperation and maintain the military presence we have in the region. But it all results in something that I think is an urgent question, in which I think the Folketing should almost give itself some joint tasks. Because if you just think back to the time before the previous election, the concepts used to analyze the world in spring 2015 are very, very weakened and very difficult to use now. Multilateralism was not something that was challenged four years ago, nor was the American security guarantee anything that was challenged just four years ago. It's a difficult world to analyze, and the lack of some kind of framework of understanding sometimes makes it a little difficult to discuss these issues. Is there still something called the Western World? This is something that can be completely questioned when you attend, as this summer, for example, the press conference between Putin and Trump. Yeah, I guess there is. But the whole question of the sovereign state, which is the basis of foreign policy, is also constantly being challenged. It wasn't like that during the Cold War. I myself sat 6 years as a student assistant in the Ministry of Defence and thus also reveals that I exceeded the prescribed study time, but there it was very easy to analyze the world. In other words, the understanding one had in one year could be used in the next year, there were no problems, and that is because we lived in a security policy era, namely the Cold War. One historian would say that an epoch is a period in which the great powers have a stable security policy, and the great powers did so during the whole of the Cold War. So what might perhaps be called for next time, a new bourgeois government will make an excellent foreign and security policy statement, could be some further reflection on what to actually call the epoch in which we live. Is it even possible to say that we are living in an era of any kind? This will make it easier to analyze the confusing amounts of data that come in to us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163755	Thank you very much, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163801	Thank you. The rapporteur refers to the importance of the European Union to the continent of Europe, and I do not think it can disagree with the fact that the European Union is extremely important for the continent. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take a line in this statement, which the rapporteur very much agreed with: "It is positive that the European Union has helped to create stability in Europe by admitting new members. • Now the rapporteur also mentioned brexit and the potential consequences it has for Europe. Would the rapporteur agree that the enlargement that has taken place in the European Union has been one of the most serious reasons why the British left the Union, since suddenly the Community into which they had once joined was no longer seen, and that these accessions to new Member States have therefore not actually contributed to stability, but have moved stability towards the south-east and thus created a little more instability in our corner of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163901	I will divide my answer into two. First of all, I would like to admit that the accession of new Member States has been more problematic than most people presumably assumed at the time when it was decided. The second part of the answer is that, in my opinion, the main reason for British identity policy is 'Brexit English identity policy' and I deliberately say not British identity policy, but English identity policy, because the Scots and Northern Ireland wanted to stay in the European Union; only the English and Welsh would leave the European Union. And what is at the heart of that question is that the majority of the British find it hard to understand that England is, as it were, a normal country, and if you cannot accept it, then you cannot accept the European Union either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163947	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl
ParlaMint-DK_20181122163951	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that he and his party are in favour of free trade agreements. The EU has a free trade agreement from 2011 with Colombia. There are also the very acclaimed social chapters included, and it says that workers must be treated properly, there are also a whole lot of other things, and then it says that human rights must be respected. What are the consequences of the fact that, since the peace agreement in Colombia, 150 civil society activists have been killed, among others. trade unionists, social movement leaders, small farmers' leaders? What will the consequences be? At that time we were promised, among other things. from the Liberal Alliance, the Left, the Conservatives, that it would have the consequence that then we would not have that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164049	Of course, the necessary criticism needs to be voiced, but it will be new in international politics to jump directly to the highest stage on the escalation stairs and interrupt the agreement. There are a whole series of steps to be taken, and the termination of such an agreement is, of course, the last step, and we have not come to that at all. I am not an expert on the internal political situation in Colombia, but there are many, many problems, as far as I can understand, that have to do with bad governance and the traditions of bad governance, which are difficult to solve here from Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164132	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164136	Well, couldn't you start from below and at least tell the Colombian government that this isn't going to work? I think that would be step one. Step two might be that some sanctions were imposed and said: they and those parts of the trade agreement do not apply until you manage not to kill civil society leaders in your society. Because that is what happens by the government turning its back on the murders that are taking place, turning its back on the fact that private gangs are actually gaining power in the areas formerly governed by the military or even by the FARC. That's where they come in now and take power from, what to call it, the state. You could start with that. I'm not saying you could terminate the agreement now, but you could terminate it as the last option.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164224	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164227	I am quite convinced that there are lively diplomatic contacts, but diplomacy is taking place in more discreet forms and not in the form of headlines in the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164238	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122164249	Thank you very much, and thank the government for the statement. Our foreign policy rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, unfortunately, cannot be here today because he is at a meeting in Brussels. But this debate is certainly also very relevant to me as a development policy rapporteur in the alternative. I have read the statement on the government's foreign and security policy strategy 2019-2020, which contains both good and bad news. If we are to start with the good ones, it will certainly not surprise anyone that in the alternative we are particularly pleased with the idea of a green ambassador who will be working exclusively with climate around the world. Especially because we ourselves originally proposed a green ambassador, and now, most recently in our government programme of August, we are proposing to create a green superminister with three ministers, including a minister for the global green transition, to which a green ambassador can just report. It makes sense to focus on how, as one of the world's largest and most well-functioning societies, we can help the green transition on its way around the world. As we all know, it doesn't help much in the big picture if we focus solely on the green transition in Denmark. We must have the courage to look at the role we can play globally. At the same time, however, in the alternative, we have always believed that we must all do what we can, and an ambitious green transition in Denmark can help to show the way for the rest of the world. As rapporteur for development policy, I have followed developments in Danish development policy with some concern over recent years. We have seen how Denmark has made a marked change, some may even call it a paradigm change, and we now use development aid and the Danish foreign service to sell Danish products instead of helping the world's poor and marginalised. Let me just stress that I do not question the role that business can and must play in terms of investment and job creation, which is, of course, the most important factor in promoting development. However, I fear that the government's special envoy for climate and energy will sell Danish products in the same way. When I read why the government will appoint a special envoy for climate and energy, an ambassador to support Denmark's efforts towards and as a follow-up to the UN Secretary-General's climate summit in September 2019 by presenting Danish solutions, public-private partnerships and the high Danish profile on the investment agenda, including as a follow-up to the P4G meeting, it even sounds very positive, as Denmark really has a strong expertise in these areas. But it might also sound as if the government here sees primarily an opportunity to sell Danish products and not to make sure that Denmark becomes the best country for the world. Of course, I hope and believe that this is the last objective. However, I would nevertheless like to ask the Minister to elaborate on how the special envoy for climate and energy, in addition to spreading Danish technology, will contribute specifically to the green transition across the world. As far as international cooperation is concerned, we are also very pleased to see the government's focus on strong, rule-based international cooperation. That's exactly what we think the world needs. That is why we also believe that the US decision to abandon one of the world's most important international agreements, the Paris Agreement, is a disaster. According to the latest IPCC report, we only have 12 years to halve global CO2 and that is why it is, of course, a tragedy that the current US administration is fighting against international cooperation in the area of climate change. Here I would like to hear what the Danish Government can do to compensate for the United States' lack of participation and how we can pressure them to take responsibility. Now to the conventions: The Secretary-General of Danish Refugee Aid, Christian Friis Bach, writes in a recent comment: "The international human rights conventions are one of the finest things humanity has ever created. The simple idea that all people from the poorest farmer to the richest industrial magnate have the same set of universal human rights from the right to food, take over the head of freedom of speech to dignity. On the other hand, we call on the government to comply with its own fine words about the importance of rule-based international cooperation and to request that Denmark rejoin the UN's cooperation on quota refugees. In general, the government should tread very carefully when it comes to Denmark's participation in international agreements and conventions, as the whole debate and strong criticism in the Council of Europe about the original draft of the Copenhagen Declaration showed. We risk undermining the international legal order on which we, as a small country, are so dependent. After all, we have just been elected to the Human Rights Council, and here we would also call on the government to take Denmark's participation very seriously and here too take advantage of the opportunity to focus on the rule-based cooperation. The strategy states that the government, based on Denmark's membership of the UN Human Rights Council, will defend the liberal values as basic principles of the rule of law such as freedom of religion and belief, women's rights and freedom of expression, and promote the political space of human rights defenders. And in concrete terms, the government will, among other things: also increase the Danish contribution to the UN peacekeeping and conflict prevention work and actively defend the liberal values of the UN Human Rights Council. Once again, on the other hand, we can only endorse the fine words that we hope and expect the government to comply with. We would like to see the government, for example. focuses on Israel's more than 50-year occupation of Palestine, among others. by ensuring that Danish companies and investment companies are held responsible when they contribute to the violation of human rights. Where is the government when Israel daily violates international laws and conventions? Are these just fine words in a document on rule-based international cooperation? Or is the government actually going to comply with the declarations of intent and hold Israel responsible and defend international law? Last but not least, I am also surprised that the government's development policy focus is gradually being very narrow about stopping migration, not in terms of increased development aid, but to mention just one example: spending a lot of resources on getting the countries that are now receiving assistance from Denmark to take their refugees and migrants back. The problem is that we end up reducing our development aid when it is used for purposes other than what it is intended to do, namely development. For the alternative, development aid is something we use to create a better world and better conditions for the world's poorest and most marginalised people. It is therefore a pity that we are closing more and more long-term country programmes and dismissing skilled workers. In total, the so-called bilateral effort has been cut from just over 6.3 billion. kr. in 2015 to 3,8 billion. kr. in the financial bill for 2019. All in all, the Alternative can support the vast majority of the government's foreign and security policy strategy 2019-2020. But we can, and hopefully with the wrong words that I have already mentioned, be concerned about whether the government will actually comply with its own fine declarations of intent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122165253	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was just in the minute... great! Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122165305	Thank you, President, and thank you to the government for their statement this year. I find it difficult to disagree with much of what is stated in the statement. However, I think it is missing a more profound recognition of the violent developments that are taking place, particularly in our security policy situation these years, what we might call our security and foreign policy disruption. And here I am thinking in particular of three new conditions which I believe have fundamentally changed the conditions for the foreign and security policy that Denmark must operate. One is the climate crisis, which is now seriously showing teeth and changing the living conditions of the vast majority of people on the planet, not least those who live in poverty already but also threaten development, growth, agricultural crops, food production and water supplies all over the world. Climate is not just a problem, it is the greatest security policy challenge of our time. And even though there is clear progress in the government's handling of this, it's also fine to appoint a green ambassador, so it hasn't slipped through in the recognition of how central this challenge is going to stand. The second, what can be said, wild development is the growth we have seen in the world over the past 30 years, which will continue with exponential strength over the next 20 years and double the world's GDP in just 20 years. It's a pretty wild thought when you think about it. That growth will change our geopolitics, our technology development and our ability to deal with the climate and resource crisis. After all, this growth comes primarily from outside the borders of Europe and the United States. So it also upsets our chances of getting the democratic values that we are fighting for to prevail. It will upset military security and it will make it difficult in any sense. On the other hand, it can be said that it also offers a huge opportunity, because if that growth becomes sustainable, there is indeed an opportunity to achieve the UN's 17 sustainability targets. It is within reach to eradicate the world's poverty, prevent migration, secure the climate, etc. The third major move I would like to point out is the violent attack on the institutions which, since the Second World War, have stabilised our world and ensured peace and prosperity for Denmark, namely the United Nations, the European Union and NATO, which are experiencing attacks both from the inside and from the outside on a scale that we have not tried before. As far as I am concerned, the answers to the violent hurricanes are at least • and this could be discussed for many hours, but I shall try to be brief, also because we are many speakers today • the following three conclusions. One is that it has never been more important to secure a strong Europe in a new world order. This is not the same as the United States of Europe; it is not the dream of a federal Europe that I am talking about here. No, it is the dream of a Europe that takes seriously the task of being a pioneer in the new world order, both when it comes to democracy and the implementation of the sustainability objectives and when it comes to foreign policy. We already have to say, for example. when we have to deal with Iran and Saudi Arabia, that if there is one thing we have agreed on all the way through, it is only when we get the European Union together that it does something. This also applies to Russia, to China, to the United States for that matter. Denmark is too small, all European states are too small to be able to pursue an independent geopolitics in the world order that we are looking into. We need to stand together if we are to have a voice in the new world order at all. Then, of course, we need to stick to NATO's foundation as our security foundation when it comes to the military. The military is, we can say, important, but absolutely cannot stand alone in the world order we are looking into, where, in other words, both climate and economic security are becoming increasingly less self-evident. Just look at the trade policy that President Trump stands for. The third conclusion leads to what is then left to Danish foreign and security policy. If one imagines that much of our geopolitical concern is going to lie in the EU de facto, a very large part of the major international negotiations on sustainable development and climate lies in the United Nations, and traditional military security lies in NATO, what is left for Denmark? Yes, there is, of course, the need to cultivate and strengthen those areas where we can really make a difference in foreign and security policy in the wider world and in the institutions that we then prioritise. I am thinking of climate, of course, and there I fully agree with Mrs Sandbæk, who says that if there is something for which Denmark has really made a difference in the past 10 years in foreign and security policy, then it is that we have reduced the price of sea wind by 60%. 3 years. It has changed the whole global energy market and will continue to do so. That is the kind of thing where Denmark is a great power. With regard to our development aid, it is precisely the case that we are using development aid to systematically promote the Danish model, both democratically, gender equality and environmentally, and in every sense we can also use our development aid to influence the growth that is coming into the world. Whether we want it or not, that growth is coming thundering, and the fact is that it is a desirable growth, for it comes mainly for the people who need it and who are living in poverty today. But it must be sustainable, on a completely different scale from what we have known so far. Finally, we are also a very unique country when it comes to the Arctic and our cooperation within the borders of the Kingdom Community. It is an Arctic that will be dramatically transformed due to climate change over the next 10, 20, 30 years. And we are the only country in the world that is both a member of NATO, the EU and the Arctic Five and the Arctic Council at once and therefore has unique opportunities to influence the development that must be in the Arctic, both environmentally, economically, democratically and so on. There's enough to do. If Denmark is to take on leadership in the areas I have outlined here, or all sorts of other areas we may wish and can agree on politically, then it requires that we have enough resources. Today everything could tell that a total of 700 million has been cut. kr. on the Danish foreign service during the past 20 years. All parties in the Folketing have a share of responsibility for this, at least by the vast majority, including my own. The question is, is it not time to stop? The question is whether we can continue to grind on with 2% savings every year at a ministry which has cut one third of its capacity compared to the year 2000 and where we may need more than ever to strengthen the Danish voice, both in Europe, but indeed also east, west and south of us. This is what we in the Radical Left believe, and we have therefore proposed to add a total of 500 million. kr. over 10 years to the External Action Service in Denmark in order to strengthen the Danish voice in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122170055	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122170114	I would also like to thank the government for this statement. After all, diplomats have written it. You can feel that in the language, because there aren't many edges here, and that's fine. You're good at that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is to file the language so that there are no edges in it. But it also means that you sometimes have to read between the lines and find out what doesn't say if you're going to get an overall assessment of it. When you read it, it all looks nice and nice. For example, the last one, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned how resources are lacking in the External Action Service, and also in relation to how many more resources, how much more money has been added to the defence. So I think, in itself, that the government could have some reflection on the balance or imbalance that exists between how much we spend on defence and on the military, compared to how much we spend on diplomacy. After all, it is also an expression of a drastic reduction in the External Action Service, where there has then been a considerable increase in the resources allocated to defence. In addition, I am a little surprised that the Middle East plays such a small part in this statement. There may be many reasons for this, but given how important a role the Middle East has played in Danish foreign policy and security policy and defence policy over the past many, many years, it is noteworthy that there is no reasoning whatsoever as to how that policy has worked. It can be said that when Anders Fogh Rasmussen joined as Prime Minister in 2001, what can be called a paradigm shift happened to a large extent. It is an expression that is widely used in the financial law negotiations. There was very much a paradigm shift, such a foreign word as one uses. But there was such a violent shift in Danish foreign policy, where we were more militarily informed. The Iraq war, the Afghanistan war became completely dominant issues in Danish security policy and foreign policy. There has never been any discussion or a closer analysis of whether it has worked. Have all the billions of dollars we have spent on military interventions and actions in the Middle East, Iran, Afghanistan, Libya, etc. had any effect? This is actually remarkable when we consider how much resources it has cost, both in terms of money and in terms of human life, and then there has never been a real overall account of the impact of it. The Iraq investigation was stopped by the government, it was not going to go any further, and now it's basically completely gone from this strategy. I think that is quite remarkable in itself. This also leads me to the fact that there are still some uncertainties, I think, about how to assess Europe's future role, and that is one of the most important issues at the moment. There are some who have used the term disruption. It is also a modern word that has come up about the way the world operates, and one of the very characteristic distortions is the American President, who in any case, if I may say so, expresses a completely new style and quite new policy on the American side. I think that maybe we need to go a little deeper into the consequences of that. In the statement here, the usual song is used to criticize a little, but one then hopes that the United States can stay within the framework of cooperation, and otherwise nothing will happen. It is understandable that you hope for it, but it is not certain that this will happen. I believe that there are already major consequences of American policy. The withdrawal from the nuclear agreement with Iran will have consequences for Iran's development, but it is equally true that the Chinese are going in and exploiting the vacuum that is emerging. In other words, all the places where the Americans withdraw both in institutions and also geopolitically, the Chinese are entering the moment and gaining influence. This is seriously serious, which is why we have to take the Chinese challenge very, very seriously, if I may say so, and that is what is being done in relation to the Arctic. I think it makes sense to do so in close cooperation with Greenland, which is quite important there. But you take it seriously. We also need to think about Europe in this context, because I believe that if there is one area, one player who can go in and fill the gap that the Americans are leaving Denmark alone, it does not make sense for us to do so; it is the European Union and Europe that can do so. But that again presupposes that we have a little more coherent ideas about what the European Union and a Europe we imagine. I do not think, but I do not know whether the government might be able to relate to it, that we imagine that we are going to the same military level as the United States. We must be a military superpower, as the United States is. The United States currently uses approx. 35% of the world's total defence expenditure. I don't suppose we're going up on that? No, but okay, so what? What is the role of Europe? What is it that we can do? And what are the instruments for that? In addition, there is also some thought that a great deal of money is already being spent on defence expenditure in Europe. They are not being used very well, but if you look at how much money is being spent on defence in the EU countries in relation to Russia, much more money is being spent on a much, much larger amount in the EU. If, however, we still have to stick to NATO and American support, as it is at present, this is because that money is not being spent in a sensible way. That is why I certainly do not think that the question of talking about European autonomy is necessarily a question of increasing military spending very much. The challenges of security policy can even be dealt with, I believe, but of course this presupposes that you have some analysis of it when you start doing so. That's why it's good that DIIS has been given the task of doing a big analysis of these questions. But basically we are in favour of the French idea that Europe should be a great power, also like a military superpower, under French leadership. Or do we have some other approaches to how the European Union should develop its security policy? I really think there is a lack of strategic thinking there. I know that now the DIIS is starting, and that's fine, and that's enough. I am glad that this statement so clearly supports the Global Compact on refugees, given that one of the governing parties has actually actually avoided the work of the Conservatives, which must of course leave doubt as to whether the government is actually behind that work in the United Nations. So I think it is actually a good thing that we can read here in the strategy, that the government is behind it, and that means that we can say to Mr. Naser Khader, when he goes out again to say these things, that's not what the government's policy is. That is fine, precisely because, as we also talked about earlier, we need global solutions. We need to get the UN on the ground in these areas. It is absolutely, absolutely essential that you do so. So I am quite, very pleased with that. There are many different themes that could be addressed, but, as I said, I think there is a lot of common sense in the statement that is here. Finally, with regard to the Arctic and Greenland, I think it is very satisfactory that such emphasis should be placed on this in close cooperation with the Greenlanders. I think it is extremely important that we all pay attention to this. When Denmark plays a foreign policy role, it is not due to Denmark's position down here. We are very much what historian Søren Mørch once called the northern German plain. We are a small country, but it is Greenland, and it is the American bases in Greenland that have made Denmark so foreign policy interesting. It also gives a sense of responsibility in relation to the Arctic development, which we must be aware of from the Danish side. I also think that this statement should be drawn up in cooperation with the Greenland authorities. But it is absolutely crucial that it happens all the time, that it happens with respect for the Greenlanders, that it happens with respect for the fact that we do not come from above and put something over their heads, because then I just think it can go completely, totally wrong. I believe that we have great opportunities to formulate a Danish policy on these issues too, but we must be in very close cooperation with the Greenland authorities. That's what you need in the back of your head. That is also written, but it must also be done in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122171142	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments or questions. We move on to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122171154	Thanks to the government for a fine statement. The government points to several important areas that will be in focus in Denmark's foreign and security policy in the coming years. I think these are important and relevant areas. Several rapporteurs have addressed the various areas, but there is one area on which I will focus, on which there has been little focus, and this is the new digital world order and cybercrime, which poses a very great challenge. In the 2017 Defence Intelligence Risk Assessment, cybercrime was proclaimed to pose the greatest threat to the security of the realm, and I think this is important to emphasise. Recently, I read the American cyber expert and former CIA Agent Clint Watts' new book called "Messing with the Enemy." It is a book about how social media are used by both state and non-state actors to threaten our open society. The author has a lot of experience from the fight against Islamic State, which initially had a very great success, which was based on social media and where their media coordinator was trained at MIT in Boston. We went after their platforms, and we won the fight against the Islamic State on social media. So that's how it is today, it's not only soldiers and tanks and fighters that can harm our community, it can hackers, terrorists, cybercriminals and others that won't do us well, too. They sit behind their computer screens, from which they can with the mouse correct devastating attacks on vital parts of society. They can send out fake news or make propaganda for holy war. It wasn't so many years ago that cyber war was considered something that just existed in science fiction movies. For most people, it seemed unrealistic to have to fight each other with the help of computers. Now we know that it is not unrealistic science fiction, it is reality. The Internet and developments in IT technology have changed everything, of course mostly for the good, and this is also emphasised in the report, but developments have shown that it can also be exploited by people with evil intentions. Our institutions, our companies are being hacked every day, not only by the Russians, but also by China, Iran, criminal gangs, and North Korea. Security company Trend Micro has estimated that hacking is being tried 44,000 times in a day. That's what happened in 2017. That is why cybersecurity must be a priority. Some believe that we are late and that not enough is being done to protect us from cyber threats. It may be, but it shouldn't be an excuse for us not to grab hold of it. I am pleased that we decided in the defence settlement for 2018 and to 2023 that the censorship network should be expanded, that cybersituation centres and cybersecurity centres should be established, and that analytical and preventive competences should be strengthened. I think that is a very good thing, but I believe that we really need to equip ourselves with the cyber challenges of the future. Research and training efforts must also be strengthened. Denmark is at the forefront of the latest developments in the coming years. The government has also published a national strategy for cyber- and information security. I think that's excellent, where 25 initiatives and 6 targeted strategies are launched. That's really, really good. The main objective of government cyber and information security is precisely to improve cyber security in our private and public critical infrastructures, as well as to improve preparedness to respond and coordinate across sectors when successful attacks or accidental accidents nevertheless occur. Denmark is one of the most digitised countries in the world and we would like to use the technology to create a better and more efficient society, but it is important to emphasise that it can also be used negatively. The backside of that is that malicious actors have also found ways to exploit technological developments. This must not lead us to opt out of the possibilities of technology, but we must not be naive. Our job as a society is to make it hard for bad guys to hit us. We are doing a lot to defend Denmark digitally, but I think we can do more, because hackers have managed to hit Denmark. They have succeeded in hitting Danish companies. Feel like it was hit by a hacker attack that cost billions. The defense has been tried hacked, the Folketing, the municipalities. This is simply due to the way cybersecurity works. What has been dominant is that we have defended ourselves and that we have been very defensive, but I think it is also important to be offensive and proactive. I believe that Denmark and NATO should be at the forefront of the Cybert rush. We need to think offensively. How can we respond to the attacks we are constantly being subjected to? I am glad that we are moving in the right direction in Denmark, among others. because the 2018 strategy, unlike many other countries, is an action plan and not a declaration of intent. So I would really like us to go more on the offensive and start hacking those who are hacking us or at least to know that we are able to hack them. We know who the hackers are, we know the targets, and we can be able to punish them in reality. I think we should start thinking in these ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122171901	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA, Greenland. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122171912	Thank you very much. And thank you for the statement, thank you for the strategy, both the current one and the future one, which the government has presented here not long ago. The Arctic is also a focus area in the new strategy, and we from Inuit Ataqatigiits are very pleased about this, because it is also positive that the government sets some concrete objectives in relation to the Arctic. There has been a debate in the Greenland media about whether or not there are specific objectives in this strategy, but we also think it is positive that some funds are being allocated to ensure that these objectives are also met. So from Inuit Ataqatigiits we have confidence that the government will also live up to its own objectives. It can be said that the strategy has already been put in place in many ways, which is why it may be a good idea to discuss a strategy where there is no real possibility of influencing the strategy that lies for 2019-2020. That is why, in the rapporteur's speech, we have also chosen to highlight what we think a future strategy is not about, very briefly and, on the one hand, looking forward to what it is to some needs that we see there being in the years after 2020. Both the current and the future foreign and security policy strategy does not take into account the work that the government and Denmark have historically and globally been known for and led, namely to promote the rights of indigenous peoples. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has supported the work of the ICC for the representation of indigenous peoples' rights at international meetings, such as the United Nations and the Arctic Council, and this is a work which Inuit Ataqatigiit has supported in this and previous financial law negotiations. That is why we would also call on the government to give priority to this in the coming years, because the work of the ICC on behalf of indigenous peoples in the Arctic is really, really important. Inuit Ataqatigiit has previously praised the government's foreign and security policy strategy and the concrete objectives in it in relation to the Arctic. And without going into too much detail, I would like to highlight a few areas which I think are particularly good and which are set out in the strategy. The focus is on young people in the Arctic, focusing on business development, focusing on innovation and research, and it is a very good area to promote when we talk about the Arctic. Personally, I also think it is very positive that not only are we talking about a few years ago, when we were talking about the Arctic, was the focus only more unilaterally on climate change and its effects, but when we talk about the Arctic today, we are also talking about living conditions, we are talking about business development, we are talking about education for the 4 million people living in the Arctic. This is a really positive development. If we then look forward to 2020 and the foreign and security policy efforts of the coming years, we would like to provide some input into some visions that I believe should be in relation to the Arctic in the field of foreign and security policy. The aim must be to ensure that we strengthen the involvement and openness of Greenland's elected representatives. Inuit Ataqatigiit would like the government to consult both Naalaksuisut, but also the Greenlandic members of the Folketing, in an extension of the way in which we conduct foreign and security policy when we talk about how we conduct foreign policy in the Arctic. One area which may be a cause of concern, which I would like to try to outline briefly, is the relationship of strength between the Naala Suisut and the government. Because if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is armed at Asian Square here in Denmark and not similarly armed in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs in Greenland, it can create a very distorted relationship of strength, and that is one of the things we need to be aware of, and therefore it is very important to ensure that we involve the Greenlandic elected representatives. When the government gives priority to the Arctic, as we have seen in the last few years, it is also an important task to ensure an even closer dialogue with Greenland and to ensure that we have nuanced the debates that are about the Arctic. Knowledge and insight tell us that a common effort is needed to ensure an optimal foreign and security policy. When you read the news, you can see that the Arctic is armed and there are more and more countries that have an Arctic policy, every country, every region with respect for itself today has an Arctic policy, and that is a very clear sign that the Arctic has become a much larger player in the world community. The experts express concern about armament in the Arctic that is already taking place, believe a number of experts and right now it can be said that there are a lot of financial interests at stake in caring for the Arctic as a low-voltage area, but it can also quickly change. When we look forward and talk about pursuing a proactive and diplomatic foreign policy, we also know that knowledge, experience and research are essential. Yesterday, DIIS held an event about China's interests in Greenland, and what might be quite interesting when you talked about an Arctic research hub should be that you might also have something called GISS, or something we might call something else, but which was a research institution in terms of defence, security policy and foreign policy, because it can help strengthen our efforts in relation to the Arctic. Inuit Ataqatigiit also believes that we should focus on skills building for Greenlandic young people. We would like there to be more Greenlanders in the External Action Service and to have more young people trained in Greenland to know both about human rights, but also about the work on the UN's global goals. For foreign policy is extremely abstract for many people in Greenland, and it is probably for many in Denmark too, but in addition to being abstract, much of it also takes place 3,000 km away from where it is actually to be carried out or where some of the decisions are to be taken. So it is very difficult to understand why foreign policy is really important to us. Our point is that we have a task in ensuring that foreign policy comes down to eye level; a task in ensuring that we get our young people engaged; and a task in ensuring that there are more decisions that are made in even closer cooperation with Greenland. Unfortunately, from the outside, this is not the impression we have today, but we think that there are some positive tactics with these strategies that have been put forward. Inuit Ataqatigiit has several times entered the field as some who would like to be part of the players we would like to participate in with some solutions. Nor are we afraid to take responsibility and come up with good ideas on how we can solve the challenges we face. This is a line that we think is very important in terms of defending Greenland's interests, and we would very much like to do so in the field of foreign and security policy. This requires greater openness from both sides, it requires greater involvement, it also requires modernisation of the way in which we conduct our foreign and security policy together, but it is very well in line with the self-government law and we look forward to contributing to this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122172712	Thank you very much to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and welcome to Mrs Aleqa Hammond from the NQ in Greenland. I'm sorry to use the abbreviations, but I think it sounds stupid if I start talking Greenlandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122172726	Thank you. Let me start by repeating what I have already said to the Greenland press, namely that it is gratifying to see that developments in the Arctic and thus Greenland are now a priority in the government's strategy. We Greenlandic politicians here in the Danish Parliament have for many years pointed out how fast the development is going in the Arctic. This is due to climate change and has major consequences for both security and geopolitical conditions in the area. That is why it is good to see that we have now been seriously consulted. It goes without saying that for my party, Nunatta Qitornai, the Arctic section of the strategy is of course of interest. However, since we in Greenland are bound to the decisions of the Danish Government and the consequences of these in the whole area of security and foreign policy, the rest of the strategy is also of great importance to us. It is therefore crucial for Greenland, with whom Denmark cooperates in the field of foreign policy, and with what weight Denmark enters into such collaborations. It is therefore good to see that the strategy emphasises the government's clear lines on an active line to ensure that the purpose of UN human rights is respected throughout the world. This is particularly important because Denmark has succeeded for the first time in being elected a member of the Council. This coincides with the fact that one of the Council's special envoys has just submitted a report to the Council on Greenland. Here it was made quite clear that it is Denmark's sole responsibility to clean up after all military activities in Greenland. At the same time, the government is encouraged to increase Greenland's participation in all decisions regarding foreign military in Greenland. Of course, we expect the government to live up to this now that Denmark has been elected a member of the 2019 Council. For although we clearly support the choice of allies that Denmark has made over time, including the United States in particular, we must note that we in Greenland have had to bear the waste consequences of Denmark's agreements to a very large extent. The remains of the military installations and bases are all over Greenland today. Some are small, such as: a few rusty barrels by the coast. Others, for example, are huge. Hundreds of thousands of litres of radioactive waste under the ice sheet. Common to all of them is that it is a product of the security and foreign policy that Denmark has been pursuing since the war. It is a consequence of the agreements that Denmark has entered into with the United States and agreements on which Greenlandic politicians have never had a real influence. Therefore, it is also good to read that according to the strategy, the government is now considering involving Greenland and the Faroe Islands more actively in its security and foreign policy decisions. Hopefully, this will ensure a less conflicting future in the realm in this area. The situation we have seen over the last few years, when the government sends out new signals from day to day about what it thinks about foreign and security policy in Greenland, is directly damaging because it potentially undermines the entire agreement on the autonomy system between Greenland and Denmark. If we cannot start a mine, build an airport or invite foreign contractors to the country without each time having to risk Denmark suddenly redefining the area from a self-government area to Danish security policy, the self-government itself will be untrustworthy both for us and for the countries with which we and Denmark would like to cooperate. Of course, relations with China are mentioned in the government's strategy. The government continues to try to balance the desire to obtain Chinese money and the fear of Chinese influence. This is particularly true of us in Greenland. With one hand Denmark invites China into the Arctic Council, and with the other you make it clear that you prefer not to see any Chinese activity in Greenland. With one hand you develop a 10-year strategy for Danish business cooperation with China, and with the other you ensure that China cannot support much of the business development in Greenland. It is difficult to see how this double game against China by the kingdom will develop without it sooner or later seriously harming Denmark's overall interests. For me and my party, it is essential to make it clear in this context that we cannot accept that the areas transferred to the decision-making powers of the self-governance should be undermined in this way. A permanent solution must be found so that autonomy can regain its position as a credible trading partner. We have major export interests in China, and China already owns a passive mine in Greenland as well as shares in others. The Greenland Government has just announced that it wants to place a representation in China to ensure a well-developed cooperation. The Chinese Arctic strategy opens up huge business opportunities and investments in the future that Greenland does not want to be excluded from. I have therefore also noted with interest that the government is planning to do some sort of screening in relation to foreign investment in the country, so that areas of security interest do not end up in foreign hands. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister how Greenland and the Faroe Islands are expected to be placed in this context. Indeed, I do not assume that this will be a mechanism that the government will use in relation to the investments in Greenlandic infrastructure that the United States Government has now indicated they will make. But, as always, we will receive the Americans without criticism. In this respect, I would like to point out that the arms build-up in the Arctic, which I referred to the seriousness of already in our Arctic debate, is not only taking place in Russia, as it might appear in the government's strategy. Despite all the statements about a peaceful North Pole outside the rest of the world's areas of conflict, the whole Arctic area is armed. It is in this context that we need to see the United States' reflections on new activities in Greenland, and it is in this light that we need to see the upgrades at Thule Airbase that in these years change the base from being an alert station to becoming an active agent in both the missile shield and the general battle for power in space. An assessment of the consequences of this whole aspect is missing from the government statement. I also lack more concrete action plans in a number of areas mentioned by the strategy as areas of action. I will pursue this through questions to the Minister. But I will end, as I started, by commending the government for now clearly understanding developments in the Arctic world and in a number of areas also putting turbo on Danish activity and cooperation in this context. It's new, and it's really good after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173527	Thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173532	Can Mrs Hammond comment on the solution she is imagining or calling for with regard to this security policy, for example? Chinese investment in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173551	Thank you. I think that geopolitics are going to fill more and more, including in relations between Denmark and Greenland. Greenland is a society that would like to have global cooperation in the fields of the already repatriated issues, among others. also infrastructure and trade. In this context, we can see that the fact that the mining industry is going to grow in the future and that the activities in the future are increasing has resulted in friction between Nuuk and Copenhagen, and the whole question of security and foreign policy has been raised without really defining when Denmark will join and when Denmark will not show interest. In this context, I think it is incredibly important that Nuuk and Copenhagen have much closer cooperation than there is today, including on issues relating to China. This requires being honest with each other and looking at each other's intentions behind the actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173701	Thank you, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, and welcome to Mr. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122173716	Thank you. I agree with Holger K. Nielsen that this is not the most entertaining paper I have read for a long time, but it has been kept in very diplomatic terms. However, I have a few points of impact in this foreign policy strategy which I would like to comment on. And it will probably not surprise anyone that the first is about a section that reads as follows: "Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands want greater insight and involvement in foreign and security policy. It makes new demands on the way we work together in the Kingdom Community, and the government places emphasis on a good dialogue with Greenland and the Faroe Islands on this. I really appreciate the fact that the government has put this on the agenda and, of course, I also hope that the good dialogue will lead to a new way of working together, which is being proposed here. But there is nothing concrete about what it is about an innovation that may be on the way, but that we want greater insight and involvement in foreign and security policy and that the government is committed to a good dialogue. For us, a very important point is, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on fisheries and trade policy. on the priorities of Danish trade policy. In the strategy paper, the Foreign Minister writes about Denmark's relationship with the EU: The EU is the crucial platform for Denmark's acceptance of interests in Europe and globally, and the EU's free trade agreements create opportunities for Danish companies that we could not achieve ourselves. And the European Union must continue to set an example globally, continue to conclude ambitious free trade agreements with countries from all parts of the world. This creates growth in Denmark and influence, and this also applies to the forthcoming agreement with Great Britain. I fully understand Denmark's strategy in this area, but it does not apply to the Faroe Islands, because we are not a member of the European Union and therefore neither influence nor benefit from the agreements that the European Union makes on behalf of its Member States. Denmark's membership means that both the fisheries policy and trade policy are centrally managed by the European Union in Brussels, and if there is a contradiction between the interests of the European Union and the interests of the Faroe Islands, we have experience that loyalty to the European Union is greater than loyalty to the interests of the so-called Kingdom Community. We saw that, among other things. with the mackerel dispute in 2013 and 2014, when Denmark closed its ports to Faroese exports, if anyone should have forgotten. I'm trying to remind you of this on a regular basis. Fortunately, that embargo was lifted, but we are still away in rough water, in troubled waters, in terms of agreements on access to pelagic fish stocks in the North Atlantic, where there are great values and strong interest in gambling, and there is a constant struggle to uphold our rights. The Brexit dimension does not make it any clearer either. The Faroe Islands simply need sovereign powers to negotiate and conclude agreements in the field of fisheries, not only at the bilateral level that we are doing now, but also when it comes to multi-state agreements, where we are today limited by a part and rule clause that the Faroe Islands and Greenland must agree before the Kingdom of Denmark can use its vote in such matters. It is only ourselves who have the interests of the Faroe Islands as their first priority, and it is not necessarily because I have to belittle the will of the Danish Government or the Danish Parliament or the administration to support Faroese views, but they are just so far down on the list of priorities. In the area of trade policy, we need access to the global market as much as any other country, because we trade every day and every minute around the globe to dispose of the 700, 000, 800, 000 tonnes of fish we have caught or bred. And we do not have the opportunity to use the agreements that the European Union makes on behalf of Denmark, but nor can we participate on equal terms with other countries in trade fora such as Denmark. JEFTA or World Trade Organization because the Kingdom of Denmark can only speak with one voice and that voice has already been deposited in the EU. It should be borne in mind that our economy and our well-being and our social model are based on our ability to make sustainable use of marine resources and convert them into goods that we sell on markets, both near and far. It is also a similar rationale for Denmark's trade policy. The Faroe Islands therefore need full maneuverability in these areas so that we can take proper care of our interests in fisheries and trade. It is not enough to have insight and involvement and good dialogue; it is a question of being able to conclude agreements independently with other countries, whether bilaterally, multilaterally or internationally. In order to get ahead of the Foreign Minister when he says that we cannot move any further than the framework of the Constitution allows, I believe that we can immediately embark on a debate on establishing a new model of cooperation, and it could, for example, be done. build on the well-known model between Denmark and Iceland back from 1918. Then we loosen the cords of the constitution and designed a worthy model of cooperation that is spacious enough to meet the challenges that we face in our time, and which are among other things. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned earlier. I shall come to the next strike, and now all the roses come to the Foreign Minister. I was very pleased to read that the global objectives form a strategic part of foreign policy as an ambitious and central global framework towards 2030. Because I think this is perhaps the most important agenda that has been set for the last many, many years. I also agree with the urgent need to take action against climate change and to find out how to tackle the consequences that are already occurring, not least in the North Atlantic and Arctic regions, because not only are there signs that the ice is melting, but it is also the temperature of the sea that is changing, and this can lead to enormous changes in living conditions on our edges. I understand that in Norway a report is being carried out which estimates that changes in sea temperature will lead to a decimation of cod stocks in the Barents Sea, and that will create a vacuum equivalent to 2 billion. euro in Norwegian economy. I can tell you that we are also fishing a lot in the Barents Sea. And the reason is the big CO2 We also have the big problems that we experience with plastic, which is found in birds and fish, and what do I know? So we absolutely need to achieve quickly in line with measures that can really make a difference and stop the pollution, which thus has violent consequences for life in and around the sea. I also think it is important that, in this case, one should put oneself behind the ear, that one can use the Arctic Forum to push for climate action that will work in the Arctic regions and get agreement around them among the Arctic actors, so that we can move faster than one does if one is to have all 193 countries in the world on the agenda. I also appreciate the high opinion in the strategy paper as: democratic and basic human rights are not a natural law, but that is something that every generation must fight for. It is a little more contradictory when you read the statement that the European Union is a community of countries that basically share the same values, but also that basic principles of the rule of law are exercised within the European Union. I agree with that, because I find it very difficult to understand that the Nordic countries, including Denmark, are completely silent about the imprisonment of parliamentarians in Spain without judgment. For some, this has been going on for more than a year now, and they have had no opportunity to defend themselves in a courtroom. They are certainly in the prospect of being brought to justice in January, accused of armed rebellion and strife and demanding everything from 17 to 25 years in prison for their political activities, which are based on freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and parliamentary debates. Every time I have asked about the government's position, I have to answer with the same answer: it is an internal Spanish matter, so we have no opinion on it. The Germans failed so easily when Puigdemont was arrested at the request of the Spanish authorities and demanded extradition for prosecution in Spain. The courts had to decide whether Puigdemont was guilty of armed rebellion and high treason so that he could be extradited for prosecution. And the answer was no. He had not been guilty of such offences in relation to the law in force in Germany and was then released by the only court which has ruled on this matter so far. I appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to express explicitly his expectation that the forthcoming trial against, among other things: The then President of Parliament, Carme Forcadell, is based on common European rule of law and human rights, so that she and the other accused have proper conditions for defending themselves and getting a fair trial. For all the nice words about democracy under pressure and common values will only be worthwhile if action is also taken behind words. Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister for Defence whether he has found out what armada was that shot around the Faroese fishing grounds a few months ago and which I have asked about, but which I have never received a proper answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122174824	Thanks to Magni Arge. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122174827	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister mentioned in the opening debate here at the beginning of the parliamentary year that we should look at how we can cooperate a little closer between Greenland and Denmark and the Faroe Islands in relation to the area of foreign and security policy. The rapporteur also mentions that it is part of the statement, and he himself mentions the really difficult balance between defending his own interests on the part of Greenland, on the part of the Faroe Islands, while at the same time there is a common foreign and security policy. One might ask oneself: what is a good dialogue? Is it a good dialogue, for example, that there is listening, but that you choose to do something else? Is this a good dialogue? Who is it a good dialogue between, in other words, the Folketing must also be involved in the field of foreign and security policy, which is also a responsibility which lies in the Folketing today? Some of the questions I would really like to put to the rapporteur. How can we put this good dialogue into practice? When will it be a success seen with Faroese glasses, with Greenlandic glasses, to find this kind of difficult balance between some interests that sometimes stick in all sorts of directions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122174939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122174941	I have been fairly specific in my presentation here. I believe that the eternal answer that the framework of the Constitution is so narrow that we cannot go any further than we have now has been heard many times before. But that is just one way to avoid the political debate and come to some political agreement on how to move forward. That is why I think it would be right for us to take the next step and say that this so-called delegate system of home government is going to run and that we are entering into political agreements similar to the personal union which was a 1918. Then we can agree on how to work together, and then we work together on equal terms. We will, of course, devote most of our energies to those things that are most essential to our existence, to our welfare model, but we will also have both an influence and an understanding of those matters that are of great importance to the development of our area. This is among other things. the climate, but above all it is the security and geopolitical development of our area. It has, of course, become much more topical once it had almost fallen dead after the fall of the Soviet Union. We are in a completely new situation which has a quite significant impact on our future prospects. We're gonna have to have some decent talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175104	Thank you very much. If we are to look at the current legal framework, that is, the Constitution and the Law of Self-Government, with Greenlandic spectacles, what could be done quite specifically in order to ensure better dialogue? The reason I am asking is, in fact, more that I think there is also a need to look at the slightly shorter path, how we can ensure greater involvement by Greenland, by Faroese, in relation to the foreign policy being conducted on our behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175132	It is not enough that we sit in the Folketing as elected members from the Faroe Islands and Greenland and can hear what is going on in committees in the Folketing, and that we may get to see the minister and discuss it, for it is first and foremost something that has to go on between the government in Denmark and the governments in the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. That is where you have to have the equal dialogue around things and find out where you have common ground and where you do not have common ground. We know very well in advance where we do not have common ground, because we are in a vacuum where Denmark has deposited some of its foreign policy powers in the European Union, for example, and where we can find ourselves in a situation where we are in a contradiction. We've seen this before. That is why we must have the sovereign rights to defend the interests that we as a society need to be safeguarded. But I do not see any problem in our being able to take an active position that we also want to be a part of, for example, the European Union. NATO cooperation, if that is what we want, and then we will give our commitment to it, if we wish. But then it must also be kept in mind that we are doing so on an enlightened basis and that our continued participation in it continues on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175246	Thank you very much, sir. Magni Arge. There are no more brief comments. But when we have such a fine and privileged visit to the Folketing, we will of course administer the practice very flexibly so that all ministers have a chance to answer the questions that have been raised. So I want to know who the government wants to start. The Secretary of State will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175319	Thank you. With 20 minutes to split, I shall be very brief, so that there will be room for my good colleagues and for the questions that will be followed up. I would like to thank you for your comments and for a good and objective debate. In the foreign policy strategy 2019-2020, we provide the Government's response to how Denmark should address the biggest foreign and security policy challenges. Let me point out with the context of today's discussion that the world today is actually a far, far better place than our great-grandparents could have dreamed of in any way. Technological development, globalisation and increased trade offer more people better and better opportunities, but at the same time we are also seeing today, of course, a rapidly changing world of global power relations that is being shifted and an ever-increasing pressure on international rule-based cooperation, which has been defining global development since the Second World War. But basically, things are moving forward, and things are moving very fast. I think there are quite a lot of Danes who have been watching the latest Queen film. It ends, among other things. off with the big concert at Wembley, Live Aid, from around 1985 I think. At the time of gathering to the world's poor Somalis, I think it was, up to half the world's population in a situation where they lived under the UN definition of the global poverty limit. Today it is less than 10%. No one would have dreamed at the time when they held the huge concert that we could make such massive progress in as few years as we have, after all. A great deal has happened, a great deal has happened, but a great deal has also happened in just the few years since we debated the government's first foreign and security policy strategy in this Chamber. There has been a trade war between the United States and China; the United States has withdrawn from both the Iran Agreement and the UN Human Rights Council; China is emerging on the global stage with increasing self-confidence, economic strength and demands for influence; we have experienced serious cyber attacks; and we have seen quite unacceptable breaches of basic international law and law with the attempt to assassinate Skripal in Britain, the assassination of Khashoggi in Istanbul and, most recently, the Iranian assassination plans in Denmark. And in Europe there is still uncertainty about the future of the European Union without Britain. There are still migration challenges and they are still significant, although the influx of asylum seekers and irregular immigrants has significantly reduced. In short, international rule-based cooperation is under increased pressure, and it is precisely devoted to the government's new foreign and security policy strategy for 2019-2020. The main message is that the rule-based international cooperation is the guarantor of Denmark's security, prosperity and welfare. That is why we must become even more involved in international cooperation. We need to develop cooperation further, we need to reform cooperation and we need to make international organisations more efficient where necessary. That is why I would also like to say, as the first remark to the DF's rapporteur: straighten your backs up, head up. It was a speech from DF's rapporteur, which was marked by a lack of confidence on behalf of the nation, and I do not think that suits us. We must dare to raise our backs and say that we can contribute to the great world. We can also sometimes take the lead, as we do, for example. has done today in relation to Saudi Arabia. In many ways we have a model society in the Nordic countries, and that includes Denmark, and we can of course help set an agenda out in the world and help reform the institutions from within. In fact, we also see that the European Union is moving in the right direction. There are far fewer initiatives from the Commission than we saw in the past. In the strategy, we have a special focus on six main issues. I'm not going to repeat them here. But even if we choose six, these will still be areas which one might consider to be sub-priority and which one would also have liked to have talked about more. More could have been said about the Middle East. Could you have talked more about cyber? Basically, I think that if you look at this strategy, we are talking about many of the issues that have been raised here. I think, as I understand it, that we have only 20 minutes together will limit me. Some of the rapporteurs have already left. But I just want to say that I feel that the cooperation we have with Greenland and the Faroe Islands is very much based on trust. I think it works better and better. This is also the impression I get when I visit both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, i.e. that there is a good and trusting dialogue. I think that is important to hold on to. And I fully agree that the Arctic area is playing an increasingly important role, which is why it is also very important in the foreign and security policy strategy. One of the examples that can be used, which has also been used, of where Denmark can take the lead, is that we are now moving towards the appointment of a special envoy for climate and energy. This is a good example of Denmark actually helping to make a difference internationally by having a high level of ambition, by securing support from private and public actors, by taking leadership in relation to investments in energy conversion, by making visible the know-how that Denmark stands for, with concrete solutions in partnerships and providing even more technological solutions where Denmark is strong. This is something which we, almost regardless of which minister is travelling around the world, attach importance and which we point to over and over again. The Social Democrat rapporteur has gone, but one of the areas that was taken up and which was also taken up by Greenland is China. I think we have a very balanced policy with regard to China. And that's the way it's supposed to be. One should not be naive, but there are clear things that we travel when we are in a discussion with the Chinese. We have to do the same. It is now many years before the Social Democratic Party gets the chance to write a foreign and security policy strategy, but I will look forward to where the nuance should be different from what we have proposed. I think I will confine myself to this, because I can see that the Minister for Defence is also very keen to be involved, and I know that the Minister for Development would like to do so too. So these were my introductory remarks. There may be room for questions afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175918	Yes, there is, but there is just one brief comment before the Foreign Minister goes down, namely from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122175931	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. If the Foreign Minister thinks that my rapporteur's speech was an expression of a lack of self-confidence, maybe I could replicate that in his speech there was a little lack of self-insight in relation to the fact that the EU is being reformed just like that. Firstly, you could start by attending meetings of the EU Council of Ministers if you think you want to reform the EU system. Then I would just like to ask you quite specifically how, during the term of office of the Foreign Minister, we have ensured that there has been less European Union and that we have moved towards a leaner European Union, which we would like to see. What concrete initiatives have we seen that have made the European Union smaller and slimmer and more efficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180010	Yes, the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180013	Well, I don't even want to comment on the whole thing about showing up. This government is coming forward to the highest degree. We can't do everything, of course we can't, and that's why there will be cancellations sometimes, but that's the way it is, and we're so covered in other ways. Can you tell the difference? Indeed, you can, because you can see that the Commission is taking far fewer initiatives than it did in the past. That is a very concrete example of that. We are currently also forming alliances to try to keep the budget at one percent. It's not certain we're gonna get through 100 percent with it, but we're gonna create alliances in relation to it. I do not think it is possible to say that this is precisely Denmark alone. But it is precisely in alliance that we do so. That we have good alliance partners, for example, can be done. See, when we need to have them with us, for example. in relation to Iran. Then they stand there and are next to us, and it's not just something that comes on its own. It is actually because what Denmark says is generally listened to. So yes, I actually believe that we are helping to influence it, but we are not doing it alone. We should not overestimate ourselves or underestimate ourselves, we should have a realistic approach to it. And that's what the government has.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180119	To claim that the fact that more initiatives are being taken should be an expression of success Fewer! ) Yes, fewer initiatives are equivalent to saying that a diet is going well if you go down from 10 kg per year to 5 kg per year. It's still going in the wrong direction. The fact that fewer initiatives are being taken but initiatives are being taken does not mean that the EU is becoming smaller. So again I would like to ask: how has the Foreign Minister's action in the European Union actually diminished?
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180157	I'm sorry, but it's just nonsense what's coming from DF's rapporteur here. After all, it is not a question of saying that if there is even one more initiative than in the past, then it is going in the wrong direction. That also depends on the content of the initiative. And what is good here is that instead of throwing the shot at all sorts of things, you are actually starting to focus on where the European Union can make a concrete difference to its citizens in a positive direction. That is exactly what we have called for from the government and from the Liberal Alliance. So I'm really happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180224	Thank you very much, Minister. I expect the ministers themselves to come back and forth to the extent that they need it. Then we're going to the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180237	Thank you. The government is deeply concerned about the worsening threat picture of an aggressive Russia, a major cyber threat, continued terrorist threats to Europe and Denmark, instability and poverty in the Middle East and North Africa. It creates streams of refugees that are aimed at our part of the world. We must take these challenges very seriously and we have built up our latest defence settlements about it. Denmark's security is not something we can handle alone, and it is therefore important that Denmark retains its European and global commitment. As a small country, we are deeply dependent on good international cooperation with countries with which we share democratic values and ideals far along the way. These values are under external influence, and we must be more prepared to do so. We cannot expect others to take care of our safety if we do not take it seriously ourselves. We must therefore continue to show the will and the ability to stand when it is needed, as we are doing today. Danish soldiers help to create peace and stability in many parts of the world, among others. in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali, Kosovo, but, at the same time, we also need to focus on our own neighbourhood; this applies, among other things, to Afghanistan. security in the Baltic Sea region. We must strengthen our security policy ties, both here in Europe and across the Atlantic. The government will work to maintain the American commitment to Europe. Among other things, it has to be done. is done through NATO, which is the cornerstone of Denmark's security policy. The European allies have increased defence budgets since 2014 and we have not taken our security for granted. With the defence settlement, Denmark increases defence expenditure by 20%. At the same time, with the high cyber threat, we must be at the forefront of cybersecurity, both at national and international level. In the defence settlement and in the national strategy for cyber information security, the government has set aside approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. to a broad effort to cope with the cyber-threat. Impact campaigns from abroad challenge our democratic values and interests. We have become very aware of this, and we must be prepared to do so. That's why we're among other things. fully implement a national action plan to address impact. The Arctic is becoming increasingly important. This underlines the need for presence and monitoring. This also applies to the protection of the marine environment, as well as search and rescue services. It is a crucial priority for the government to work for the Arctic to remain a low-voltage area, but the increasing geopolitical interests in the region and the continued Russian military expansion is a development that the government is following closely. As the ice melts, there will be ice-free shipping routes across the North Pole, and when they become ice-free, commercial interests in the area increase, and when commercial interests increase, it also becomes more interesting in terms of security policy. We therefore need much more insight into what is happening in the Arctic, not least in and around Greenland. We must, together with our partners and allies, deal with developments in the Arctic with the aim of remaining a low-voltage area. The security situation in and around Europe has become more unpredictable. After all, the European Union has also responded to the worsening security situation. EU security and defence cooperation has developed significantly in recent years. The message is clear: the European Union takes the situation seriously and increasingly takes responsibility for Europe's own security. Denmark's defence reserve in the EU means that Denmark cannot participate in much of that cooperation. We have now reached a point where we need to fully understand developments. We must have an open debate on the development of the European Union and the importance of defence reserve for Denmark, and this requires a thorough and enlightened basis. That is why we in the government have decided to start work on an external investigation to look at that issue. And to Magni Arge I would like to say that the case he raises about a Faroese fishing boat I am unfortunately prevented from commenting here from the platform, but we have informed the Faroese authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180755	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no brief comments at this stage and we therefore welcome the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122180802	Thank you very much. Just a few words from me in connection with the debate here too, and first of all a few comments on the excellent comments made by the rapporteurs on our development cooperation and our development aid, and thank you for that. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that yes, there has been a paradigm shift in the way we work, and the paradigm shift has resulted primarily from the adoption of the 2015 World Goals, which clearly shows that no one can carry out the task alone, but that we can do so or that we can at least achieve more when we enter into partnerships across the board. That is why the private sector is playing a far, far greater role today than the private sector has done so far, because we have all recognised that without private sector involvement we simply do not achieve our goal. We are not reaching the goal of sustainable development. The global goals for sustainable development, as I see it, are at the same time a fantastic business case which, of course, appeals to not least Danish companies' competences, know-how and opportunities to contribute to precisely achieving the world goals in a number of the world's poorest countries. At the same time, we have become far, far better at using our development aid as a catalyst to create even more development for the resources we have at our disposal. In other words, we've become far, far better at getting 2 plus 2 not just to give 4, but maybe 6, 8 or 12, and I think it's great that we've got there. Excuse me, President, and that is actually a comment to the President when the President acted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, where there was such a thing as what can be said? Among other things, mention was made of: GGGI, and it was said that GGGI has now been shut down. It is not, I can tell the President. The Global Green Growth Institute operates well and is preparing various initiatives for the upcoming COP meeting. The 3GF was also mentioned, the Global Green Growth Forum, which was set up on the basis of initiatives taken by the then Danish government back in 2010-2011, and in view of precisely the adoption of the 2015 World Goals we have based on the experiences we have from 3GF, created a new platform for entering into partnerships, namely P4G, Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030. In fact, in all modesty, I think that is precisely one of the things we are very good at from Denmark, where we have created a new platform for partnerships between the private sector, between civil society and governments. Well, then, a few general comments on the strategy as such. The foreign and security policy strategy emphasises that irregular migration remains one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century. Therefore, refugees, migration and development are an important issue that naturally goes back to the strategy, which is then all about 2019-2020. Fortunately, as has also been mentioned, it has been possible to significantly reduce the influx of asylum seekers and irregular migrants to Denmark. This is a consequence of the policy of foreigners. We have also helped to strengthen the EU's external borders, and we have also strengthened our own efforts in the neighbourhoods of refugees. In my view, we can help far more refugees for the same money, and we can also help better, but our efforts do not, of course, stop here. Population growth, particularly in Africa, combined with the lack of prospects for the future, will only increase the challenge in the coming years and therefore timely care is needed now. The Government's vision is that Africa's young people should be able to see a future in their home countries, and development policy is, of course, absolutely central here. We can and must help to create the hope of a future for the millions of young people who make up the population of Africa. Development cooperation helps to combat the root causes of irregular migration, and we strengthen efforts in fragile states, we focus on contributing to growth and employment and opportunities for the world's largest generation of young people, not least in Africa. And let me just take this opportunity to remind you that in the years leading up to 2030, 25 million new jobs will have to be created on the African continent just to absorb the young people who will be part of the workforce in the future. We are increasingly using new innovative financing mechanisms, as expressed by the New World Target Fund, in other words, an example of using our development aid as a catalyst in order to have even more development for the resources we have at our disposal, and we have a particular focus on development for young people. Effective management of irregular migration in both the short and the longer term obviously requires well-functioning international cooperation and common solutions, and the government therefore supports the new global migration agreement. The Agreement will contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings and traffickers; it will provide better information on what opportunities exist and are not at the end of the dangerous migration routes; and, above all, the Agreement will support ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation on readmission of own nationals who are repatriated or expelled from, inter alia, Denmark. From the government's point of view, we have set aside 110 million. kr. in next year's Finance Act to strengthen the efforts for readmission through a somewhat too much-approach. It is in the interests of all of us to achieve the goals of the world. This requires that we do not leave half the team on the bench. In other words, we must not forget women when we talk about development cooperation. In the fight for global equality there are a number of previously like-minded countries that have started to move in the wrong direction, and that is why we in Denmark have significantly strengthened our efforts towards girls and women's rights. On the Danish side, we can only influence developments in the right direction by working together for progress; this requires strong multilateral institutions, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned, and it also requires us to be vigilant about the international legal order. We will therefore continue our efforts to reform and streamline the UN and we will take advantage of the fact that, together with the rest of the European Union, we are the world's largest development player. In my opinion, we take great care of Denmark when we help take care of the world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122181714	I would like to thank the Minister for Development Cooperation, and I have to say to the Minister for Development that the President cannot allow him to do so. Christian Juhl will have the floor in this debate, so we will have to wait until later on with the dialogue. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on the debate on statement R 5 • more ministers? There isn't. Then the debate is closed and, as you know, this is not a point on which we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181122181748	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, except that I would like to thank everyone for their work today in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 23 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
