ParlaMint-DK_20181023130427	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 73 (Proposal for a law on business promotion). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to complain about insufficient support in primary school for children with less than 9 hours of support). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Financial Committee has submitted: Report on the setting up of a parliamentary working group on the world objectives. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. As members of the Supervisory Board on the employment of inmates in the Institutions of Criminal Welfare for the period from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2022, the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has appointed Karen J. Klint, and the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has appointed Bent Bøgsted. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023130543	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023130555	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023130622	Thank you for that, President. It is, as the President well indicated, quite a complicated headline that is for this bill. It is also a very comprehensive legislative proposal, and I should like to start by saying that the Social Democrats support the bill. It is true, as has been said, that this is about amending the law on financial activities and, in particular, about preventive measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, that is, money laundering legislation, and a number of other things. Unfortunately, time on the platform does not allow me to go into all these proposals in depth, so I would like to highlight a few of them. Among other things: The FSA is now expanding the scope for allowing financial institutions and insurance companies to carry out what is called ancillary activities, i.e. an undertaking which, approximately, can be translated into it, is in line with their current work. In the light of the digitalisation and the developments that are taking place there, banks, other financial institutions and insurance companies are being given the opportunity to develop services and ensure a business model for areas they have already mentioned, and I think that the way in which this has been done is quite reasonable, and the Social Democratic Party can support that. It is important for us that it is still the FSA that decides it and that it is in the relatively short reins that we agreed in the conciliation circle. It has just been said to say that this is, of course, an area that social democracy is going to follow. We also change the indicators of when an institution is a so-called SIFI institution, i.e. an institution associated with particular systemic risks. be a big bank. We think it is very reasonable that this bill now alters the size of the Institute's deposit share of total deposits in Denmark, so that the reality will be that more institutions can be called SIFI institutions. Why is this important? This is important because there is a special control over an SIFI institution, in other words a particularly systemic risky bank. There are also special requirements on how the Foundation should capitalise, so that if it blows, as we saw ten years ago, there is more to it than there was then, and we all have an interest in that. So that too seems to the Social Democratic Party to be quite reasonable. Then there has also been an element in the proposal, which would probably also be given some attention today, namely that the level of fines for infringements of the law on money laundering will be increased. This is part of the agreement we have made here at Christiansborg not so long ago. This is quite appropriate, especially in view of the current case of the money laundering scandal at Danske Bank. What we have seen and see mentioned, also about other institutes, in these days, is a development that is totally unacceptable, and I am very pleased that the authorities responsible for this are in the process of examining the matter in question, and of course we expect them to go into this in depth. This is about the level of sanctions for both board members and management and, as such, for the Institute, if you are caught in violating money laundering legislation. That is a lot of money. In the present case, hundreds of billions of dollars are involved, which may have been covered by money laundering, and these are very serious financial crimes that we must look at with the most earnest care. That is why the Social Democrats are pleased that this agreement has been successfully negotiated. We have negotiated it in a couple of rounds, and at the end of the day it was made even tighter than what we had originally agreed on, and in the Social Democratic Party we are quite pleased that one of the elements that has been included is the tightening of fines for infringements of money laundering law. What has happened is totally unacceptable, it does not belong anywhere and certainly not in the Danish financial sector. I think that surprised everyone. The social democracy signal from here today is that this is an element that we believe needs to be addressed when we see money laundering in the financial sector. Other elements can easily be added. However, as I have said, we support the proposal to tighten the fines and penalties for infringements of the law on money laundering, as well as the full legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131127	Thank you. There is a question or comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131129	Thank you very much. One of the elements of the proposal, which I believe the rapporteur did not mention, concerns the implementation of the STS regulation, which is, after all, part of the EU's capital market union. After all, the purpose of this regulation is to promote an efficient market for securitisation in Europe. For those who do not remember what securitisations are, it is, after all, the kind of financial derivatives that helped trigger the financial crisis and which was one of the causes of the crash in Lehman Brothers, which then set the rest of the international financial world on fire. It seems a little strange to me that, ten years after the financial crisis, we have a huge need and are very concerned about promoting a market for this type of risky and complicated financial products. Is this something on which the Social Democrats are in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131235	Here you go, sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131236	As I said, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, but there is no doubt that I was involved in negotiating the first bank packages, and we have come up to four or five pieces now that we have to follow this closely, and we are discussing it in the conciliation circle. However, I do not think there is anything in this that should blink the warning lights, as we saw during the financial crisis. I think that what is being proposed here can be sensible adjustments. We have no insecurity in supporting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131306	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131308	I understand that you vote for the bill. However, it appears, for example, that the purpose of the STS Regulation is to make it more advantageous to issue and invest in STS transfers. The purpose is simply to make more of these products, where you bundle a lot of risky assets and sell them to other investors for the same way as getting risks offsheet and released new capital, which can then be invested in a new loan. Well, I am asking more in principle about that than about the specific legislative proposal. I know that this is something that comes from the European Union and everything else, but is it, like, part of the way in which the Social Democratic Party believes the financial sector should develop in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131352	The way in which the Social Democratic Party believes the financial sector should develop is that it has a financial sector that is able to deal effectively with investment and capital flows, but under tighter control. That's why Mr. Pelle Dragsted remembers that what is also here is also a reinforced control. We have been discussing this. Whitewashing legislation is an element, but we are discussing a whole range of issues, such as the role of the FSA. And it is true that this is EU legislation, and as Mr. Pelle Dragsted knows, is also discussing in the EU the question of how to tighten controls in this area. So, overall, the Social Democratic Party is backing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131432	Thank you, then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. It isn't, sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131447	Thank you. We're looking at this bill from two different angles. On the one hand, there is the angle that has been agreed among a broad majority of the members of the Folketing and parties on money laundering, and then there is the second part that comes as the mouth of the work created by a working group on reviewing the financial regulation. And if we take the first part about money laundering, then it has to be said that recent events in this area have probably shaken most of us. We have witnessed things we probably in our wildest fantasy had never dreamed of could happen in such an orderly country as Denmark, and in that light the bill is at least a good start, the part of what is about multiplying the fines for breaches of this legislation. Because what we have seen is unacceptable. It has been about staggering sums of money, where, in total violation of the rules, we have laundered for purposes which we may not be able to quite understand yet. As a legal rapporteur for a few years, I have to say that this has also changed the view of what a bank robber really is. We all probably have a pretty stereotyped view of what a bank robber has traditionally looked like, historically. These cases have shown us that bank robbers are not only of the type that pulls the hood down over their heads and runs into a bank to rob it, but they may also be people in suits and suits who are not aware of their responsibilities. And in that light, we are pleased that we are now getting better tools to come after those who cannot find out, those who want to break these rules, and punish them harshly with some fines that are significantly higher than what you have the opportunity to do today. We have helped to reach an agreement on this part, and of course we stand by it completely in the Danish People's Party. The second part contains a number of different proposals and initiatives. Anything good from the sea, you could call it, or anything good from the Department of Business. A great deal of the proposals we need to explore in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. The former rapporteur was given a question by Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, and that's one of the things we're going to look at when we're going to dig a shovel deeper with this legislation in the Business Committee. So we will deal with that at a later stage, but of course we will support the initiatives that we have promised and are part of an agreement on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131718	Thank you. Then there is a comment, a question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131720	Thank you. It is true that the rapporteur says that this is a bit of a pile of proposals. One of the elements is that we want to relax the rules on exemption in the law on payments. Here, both the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council, think inside and raise a warning finger and say that this could affect consumer protection. Is this one of the things the rapporteur would like to examine in the course of this process of adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131751	Yes, that is at least one of the things that I myself, but also the business rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby will look into the work of the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131800	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131801	Another element, which lies among many of these elements, is the question of extending the banks' ability to expand their business. There is also the National Bank in its hearing reply a little concerned about this increased deregulation of the banks. I also think that this is a rather strange time to deregulate the financial sector in terms of • because, in the worst case scenario, it could threaten financial stability. Is that not something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131833	Sir. Pelle Dragsted and I can go to the Committee on Finance and ask the questions to be asked, and then we will look at the things I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131844	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023131853	Thank you. I actually believe that there are three elements to this bill. First, about the increased fine for money laundering and then the follow-up from the working group, which has reviewed the financial sector and made its recommendations in April of this year, and then there are a number of implementations as a result of EU rules. So there are three different elements, but all three revolve around the same, namely financial regulation. And there is no doubt that we have made a great deal of regulation in the financial field over the last ten years on top of the financial crisis, it has been necessary, it has been sensible, but it also makes sense to carry out a review and ask whether we have now put the rules in order in the right way. Is there any overlap in legislation? The working group could of course show some examples of this, which is why we have the quality assurance of legislation and cleaned up where regulation is double or superfluous and covered by other legislation. It makes really good sense. There are a total of 33 elements in the draft law and, as the two previous rapporteurs said so precisely, time does not allow us to go into detail. But the part, that is, that we have done a service inspection, makes real sense. Of course, what is most important is the amount of the fine in relation to money laundering, which increases by 700 per cent. It's significant, it's really significant. It is also bigger than what was on the table in the past, and this must of course be seen in the light of the fact that we are in the midst of the biggest money laundering scandal we have seen so far, with potentially up to 1 500 billion. kr. which has been laundered and where there has been no inspection and no action has been taken. You've turned a blind eye. It is therefore important that we send out a clear signal very widely in the Folketing that it is totally unacceptable, and that we should therefore have fines which are so high and so deterrent that any thought of this should be taken into account by someone is accompanied by the knowledge that a hammer is falling really hard and that any flirting with such thoughts should be put into the grave, and we must also ensure that our procedures are effective in ensuring that we do not inadvertently become part of money laundering either. So full support is therefore given to the significantly increased fines. As I said, there are also a number of other elements. I think it makes sense for us to clarify the rules on ancillary activities for the financial sector. Technological developments are creating new opportunities, and these are things which must naturally extend what the financial sector is doing, but which include: a little clearer that FinTech can act more than it is today. I think that makes sense. For a long time we have been discussing the designation requirements for the SIFIs, i.e. the systemically important financial institutions to which we impose special capital requirements, because their impact on the Danish economy is significant and there we relax the requirement for when to be designated SIFI. This means, in concrete terms, that with what is being proposed with the legislative proposal, an additional financial institution will be subject to those rules. These are rules which mean that then the financial institution must be better upholstered than otherwise and thus help to ensure that we strengthen financial stability in Denmark. The EU elements are diverse, so I will not go into them. Some of these are such little consequences of both regulations and the implementation of various directives in a wide range of areas. However, it is escaping with the commitments we have in the European Union. And in many of these areas it makes very good sense for us to solve the tasks on the basis of a common set of rules, because many of these tasks take place across borders. It is a very good example of the fact that it is very sensible for us to solve the tasks together and ensure that there is a regulation that you can recognise, even when crossing the border. So these are quite sensible elements of a very, very big bill. The report is, of course, that the Left strongly supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132338	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132343	Thank you. It seems rather strange to me that, in the midst of these bank scandals, ten years after the financial crisis, we are implementing a series of deregulations of the financial sector. Let's just deal with this ancillary business and non-accessory business. In practical terms, therefore, there are two changes here which will give banks a freer opportunity to engage in new business areas. Is this really what we need in Denmark, in Europe, in the world now, in other words to have a more complex financial sector, with one, if you may say so, more large-scale monster that can engage in new business adventures in new areas with increased risk? After all, the legislation we have had up to now has ensured that there were quite strong restrictions on which business banks and other financial institutions had to take over. And that's what you're deregulating with this proposal. Is that wise, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132446	I think it is important to make it clear that it is not such a barn gate. This does not mean that financial companies must now plunge into anything, because it is limited, and that is with clear conditions. However, I also think that we must ensure that the legislation reflects the reality, that is, that the services that follow naturally on from the running of financial activities today may be slightly different from those in the past. And it is with technological developments for me to see quite logical and quite natural that existing financial institutions and institutions should also be able to offer what we are happy to speak up about what we call fintech, that is to say technological solutions in the financial sector, and that this includes: That is where the rules are being relaxed. I think that makes a great deal of sense in this respect, also in order to promote innovation and development.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132544	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132545	Well, the whole innovation and development and fintech thing sounds great, but let us not forget that a few years ago the financial sector plunged us into a huge crisis and that we see time and time again how it is failing its responsibilities. That is why I am surprised that this Parliament is not the first time that new deregulations have been introduced, and that is why it is actually very limited. I find it difficult to read it from the observations made by the draft law. It says it has to be in continuation of banking operations. But what does that mean? One of the examples mentioned is leasing-like activities. Is this a natural extension of banking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132624	Well, I think there's some history in this. It is quite fair to have a discussion about what products, what advice was given in the run-up to the financial crisis.I am happy to discuss this and there are countless examples of products and advice that have been very unfavorable to customers and to society. But to give the impression that it is ancillary business that has been the cause of the financial crisis, I think is a truth with modifications. I just think that when we try to promote innovation and new opportunities in fintech, it is quite natural for me to see that this is a continuation of what it is to run a financial institution today, and that is why there are very clear rules on what financial institutions can also do in addition to pure banking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132726	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023132745	Thank you. This is one of the pile proposals we often have in this area. There are no less than 33 different elements in a relatively wide area of insurance, real estate agents, banks, mortgage loans, cooperative funds and that is a relatively complicated legislation, and that of course makes it impossible to reach the individual parts. But it also requires real effort to get to grips with it and to be sure of what we are embarking on. As has also been shown, there is probably an element from the draft law that will fill a lot in the rapporteur's speeches today, and that is the element that is about increasing the penalty for money laundering. That is fine, and it is also something we support from the Enhedslisten side. Perhaps we would have liked to have seen even more severe penalties in this case. I might also be a little surprised that there are some wordings about looking at the soundness of the banks in question, so if your soundness is not so good, you have to be punished more lightly. This may be a rather strange approach, but perhaps the Minister can explain that. It is good that, after these recent financial scandals, there has been a greater willingness, including from the right, to set foot against the financial sector. It's really nice that we don't have to hear about poor banks being bullied anymore. However, what I think is a little contradictory, perhaps a little absurd, is that many of the other 32 elements of this proposal are about and now insist on deregulating the financial sector even more, in other words giving the financial sector more room for manoeuvre and less regulation than today. I personally think that the worst thing is about the implementation of the EU's so-called STS regulation. That regulation is part of what is known as the European Union's capital market union and aims to create an efficient market for securitisation, among other things. by lowering the capital requirements associated with the type of assets of the banks. What's the deal with securitisation? It's so hard a word that you barely have the time to understand it. Securitising is exactly the type of financial products that was one of the main triggers of the financial crisis in 2008. So that's when, for example. banks bundle a number of their loans in various creative ways and, if I may say so, they sell bundles to other investors and thus write a risk of their own balances, which in turn allows them to increase their lending. It was exactly the type of products that in Lehman Brothers triggered the financial crisis, which has later rolled out over the world. So it has now been decided in the European Union that it is very important in Europe that we have an effective market for precisely this kind of financial products, and in order to make them slide down again and make them rooms, the concept of STS, which stands for simple, transparent and standardised or simple, transparent and standardised, has been invented, but if you read this EU regulation, it is anything but simple, transparent and standardised products. On the contrary, these are deeply complicated financial products and it is very close to being a copy of the kind of products that caused the American financial sector to melt down. Lecturer in global political economy, Jakob Vestergaard, wrote in an article this summer and I quote: It is just as plausible to make securitisation simple, transparent and safe as it will be to get puddles to rise up and take a few steps aside in order to keep the walking traffic dry. In other words, this is what is called contradiction in terms; there are no safe, transparent and simple securitisations, because it is a deeply complicated financial product that we should not have at all and which we did not have until a few years ago. After all, it is a product that has appeared in the last 10 to 20 years. I think it is rather crazy that, after the financial crisis, we should implement a regulation to promote exactly the kind of financial speculation that triggered the crisis. We should go the other way. But this is not the only deregulation of the financial sector in this legislative package. There are a number of other deregulations that I cannot go through. So I will just hurry to stay within the time and end and say that I think this treatment shows some of the hollowness that is also in the harsh rhetoric that has come after the recent banking scandals from a number of parties in here. In the end, unfortunately, we are moving in the same direction, with the same basic idea that we should have even more deregulated financial and capital markets. That is not what is needed; on the contrary, more and not less regulation is needed, and that is what we are working for on the Enhedslisten side, that is what we are going to vote for, and so we cannot, of course, support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133257	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one quick comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Yeah, it came a little late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133305	I can't help but ask sir. Pelle Dragsted, whether this whole money laundering case and the entire administration... and Danish employees...... to follow precisely the flow of capital across borders, or whether Enhedslisten holds so strong that we must get out of the EU that we also do not want a common European... [sound out].
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133355	After all, the banking union is still a slightly deformed project, but in the banking union that exists today, money laundering is not part of that supervision at all. It's still national. So in this sense, it will make no difference whether Denmark was with or not, and I also think that it was a boring abuse on the part of our Prime Minister that he tried, after this tax fraud case, to use it as an argument to enter the banking union again. The banking union has nothing to do with the cooperation between tax authorities in the different countries. So there's a lot of agendas in this. But, specifically, in relation to the banking union, our concern is that, by entering the banking union, we are moving the decision-making power, the sovereignty that, for example, exists. We are talking about how and when a bank should be wound up, to a supranational location where, even because we do not have euro membership, we do not have any influence because it is below the ECB. That is why we are critical of the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133505	Thank you. The fact that we are not in the euro is something we can fix if the Enhedslisten wishes to do so, but I think that is not what Mr. Pelle Dragsted's statement. It is quite true that even if there were to be a new banking union, concrete supervision is still at national level, and that is also why I thought that Enhedslisten might be able to join it. However, as several experts have pointed out in the press here in the past few days, it will then give national supervision new opportunities to establish cooperation in new ways with their colleagues in other countries, and we could of course work to ensure that Denmark, moreover, if we joined the banking union, strengthened the dimension which could indeed be strengthened with the experience we have today. I simply find it so difficult to understand intuitively how, as a socialist party, I still think Enhedslisten declares himself as opposed to a joint European cooperation in order to better supervise the financial sector. There is something that, in my opinion, just seems completely counterintuitive when you are so actively opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133609	We have nothing at all against international cooperation in principle, either at European level or elsewhere. We are just looking at the concrete cooperation and looking at whether it makes sense. After all, the EU's banking union is basically based on the idea that the financial sector should be as it is today, and there is even an operation against ever larger entities. We believe that it is something quite different that needs to be done: some fundamental reforms of the financial sector, among other things. brings down the size of the largest units. In fact, we will have more difficulty in achieving this if we join the banking union because we want to move part of the decision-making power, for example. in the context of a new crisis to e.g. to decide on the separation of the large banks, away from ourselves and to a supranational level where we have no influence because we are not sitting at the table. So that's why we're critical. However, we are very much in favour of cooperation between the financial supervision of the various countries. If it had been made a little more active and it would have been possible to do so, even by the Danish financial supervisory authority in relation to their Estonian partners, we might have been free of much of what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133711	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133716	Thank you. Now we got the EU issue on the table, and I just want to ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted, about Mr. Pelle Dragsted may not feel a bit like me in this question. For every time something goes on somewhere in Europe it may be in Denmark, it may be in another country • is the EU's first comment that if the EU had just decided something more, then we could have dealt with this problem. Instead, we should actually look inwards and find out whether there are some systems in our own national states that we can do something about where we could do better or where others could do better and where, moreover, there is no objection to cooperating internationally or tip each other. That's the kind of feeling I'd like to hear about Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted can also sometimes have the feeling that the EU parties are completely at the mercy of a very complicated and extremely important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133802	Yeah, I recognize that. In other words, I think it is perfectly fair that, as a party which is in favour of greater integration into the European Union, we should point to an increase in the surrender of sovereignty from individual countries to a supranational European Union when we think it could solve some problems. Where I think it is not quite fair is when you use it as an argument in situations where it has nothing to do with it. And that's what the Prime Minister did when he mixed a fraud case with a dividend tax, where cooperation between national tax authorities could have been very sensible, together with accession to the banking union. I think that was simply beneath the dignity of the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I think, or fortunately, we can say, for those of us who do not want more power to be given to the EU all the time, that this is the kind of thing that often makes people think that you cannot really believe the things that come from the politicians, because it is so often misinformation or manipulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133901	Sir. Pelle Dragsted is so trained a debater, so swear words should be avoided, I must clarify. Pelle Dragsted I'm sorry). Yes, sir. Pelle Dragsted is not a beginner. No one else has anything to ask. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023133924	Thank you. One of the things that this proposal contains is the implementation of the agreement on collections of fines for infringement of the Laundering Act. It must never be the case that cheating or turning a blind eye pays for a bank. Therefore, the fines must be substantial and must be proportionate to the infringements of the law that are taking place. At a time when Denmark's largest bank has been involved in the biggest money laundering case ever, we will have to have strict rules, even if the money laundering has not taken place in Denmark. A strong signal must be sent to the outside world that this matter is not taken lightly. In addition, the proposal provides for an adjustment in relation to the designation of SIFIs and certain simplifications of financial regulation. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134041	Here we are dealing with a bill that can be called mixed candy. A proposal has been made to deal with money laundering and then mixed it with Mr. Pelle Dragsted came up to 33 other areas. And that is actually the first thing I want to address, because I think it is a pity that we are mixing up legislation in this way instead of saying that we should look very seriously at money laundering, especially with the cases that have come up now. Let us take it for ourselves and then discuss the other things too. I find it very, very difficult to have to decide on such mixed candy at once and weigh them against each other. Overall: when you come up with such a complex piece of legislation as has been done by the Ministry of Industry, I would actually like to ask that in the committee work we get a little more down with it and get a proper technical review of it. Because it is very complex to have to sit and study 33 areas of such a law with the time limit. And I would ask you to separate it so that when we make legislation that actually deals with different things, they must of course also be dealt with separately. To go a little deeper, one of the things I've really noticed is what's about this repeal of Section 123 of the Financial Business Act about this with consent. I do not think it is quite clear from the consultation note that has come to light that the Ministry is getting the answer seriously enough to the criticism that is being raised, particularly from the Consumer Council, and that is at least one of the things that we are going to have to look at much more closely. We should not, of course, start watering down consumer safety through such legislation here. So little calls and questions, in other words, in relation to the more serious treatment of the repeal of Paragraph 123, which the Consumer Council Think raises questions and which I think should be answered a little more clearly by the Minister. Would it be possible to divide up the bill so that we could actually take a position on an increase in the fine rate? Then we can discuss whether that is enough or not enough, but so that we at least take a position on it and do not confuse it with a bag of mixed candy of other legislation on financial institutions. And then we should actually have a really proper and technical review of a catalogue as complex as this law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr. Martin Lidegaard... is gone. Then we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134344	As my fellow Members have said, this draft law is a mixture of various elements: there is an EU directive; there are recommendations from the expert group; and then there is agreement on, among other things, that. strengthening the level of fines and tightening the rules on money laundering, which are also included in the SF. We are, of course, behind this agreement; we are very pleased with it, and I have also praised the Minister for it. However, as several of my fellow Members have also said, I find it rather a pity that so many different things are being mixed up. We have made an agreement and we are committed to voting in favour of it, of course, and we would very much like to do so, but we also have two major concerns on the part of the SF. One is about ancillary activities, as some have also mentioned. It is not the case today that new products cannot be made as a bank. A classic example is perhaps Danske Bank, which developed MobilePay, which is now separated in its own company and is widely used. So you can do it. But that is the limit of what you have to do, and there are good reasons why, for example, when you have the right to conduct banking, it is what you have to do and not everything else. Perhaps I would also have been a little more reassured if it had been very clear and concrete what ancillary activities should contain, but on page 15 of the comments to the proposal it says that the definition of the legal standard of ancillary activities is also determined by administrative practice, taking into account social developments. Now I myself am a djøf'er, and it must be a djøf'er who has written it, because it does not say very much: an administrative practice taking account of social development. If we are to take a stand on what has been the law so far, namely that when you have the right to conduct financial activities in some form, then that is what you must, and not all sorts of other things, we should at least know exactly what it is that you have to be allowed to operate beyond it. Then there's the other thing about the securitisation, like Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned. I fully agree that this is a dangerous path to take. It can be said that it is strange that we are tightening our grip on some things • we are introducing new and, hopefully, much better regulation. We could see that ten years ago during the financial crisis, and we can see it now: how much is at stake if banks or the financial sector do not behave properly or directly commit illegal acts, because it can put our entire economy at risk. Therefore, there is a good reason why financial companies are regulated harder than all possible other types of companies • there is a special regulation for financial companies, and there is a reason for this. So, on the one hand, we have a minister who says that we need to have the toughest money laundering legislation in Europe, we need to have the highest level of fines, and I think that ambition is right and, on the other hand, we are moving towards deregulation and loosening up. So in the two areas, namely securitisation, which is the result of an EU directive, and ancillary activities, we have some very serious concerns on the part of the SF. I would like to support the alternative's desire to have a technical review, but I can also say now that we in the SF will be asking for the bill to be split up, because of course it should not be the case that an agreement is reached with us and that we will not vote for it. We would love to, but there are just some things in this bill that we can see right now that we cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134813	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134815	I'm actually gonna ask you a little bit about this sericuritization thing. As I said, it was supposed to be this simple, transparent and standardised, but if you look at it, then you allow it, for example. What is known as trenching, which is like a mixture of various forms of financial lending, is then put together in bundles that you sell afterwards, and it is exactly the type of financial products that triggered the financial crisis or which are triggered by a financial crisis, which is about a much greater risk throughout the sector, but which is certainly the trigger factor. This is probably going to happen. SF is in the financial conciliation circle, so I would just like to ask whether we can count on following very closely whether this type of product will spread in Denmark as well, because that would be very worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023134912	Thank you. Now, as the rapporteur himself said, it is an EU directive on that part, so it is not something that has been agreed in the financial conciliation circle. However, I think it is very remarkable that the European Union is going in with its eyes open and taking one of the most toxic products at all. You could see during the financial crisis that when you pack up debts and other things in new ways, so that you can finally not see through what the real asset that is actually behind it is, no one is in control anymore, and that was the main reason for the financial crisis. Then you go in and you say, "Now we're making a simple model." And as the rapporteur has just said, it is a contradiction in itself, because the whole idea is that it is not simple. It is not transparent. You pack products and debts and borrow in new packages. But on the question of whether we will keep an eye on it, I think we will all do so. It is just to say that it is not something that has arisen in the financial conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135032	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135043	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now contains, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, a number of amendments, including: the law on money laundering and the law on financial services. It aims, among other things, at: to strengthen the level of fines in the field of money laundering and, in addition, to implement a whole series of amendments as a result of recommendations from the working group that has been set up and which has worked to make recommendations earlier this year. And then we implement some EU directives and regulations. In the Conservative People's Party, we support a tough approach towards those who commit crime, and that also applies, of course, if it is economic and financial crime. Those who finance or, because of negligence, contribute to the financing of crime must be punished and they must be severely punished. Of course, the ongoing case of money laundering through Danske Bank's Estonian branch has also made it necessary for us to stop and ask ourselves whether we can do even more legislatively to prevent or best prevent this from happening in the future. In the Conservative People's Party we believe that punishment has a very high degree of preventive effect. That is why we are also in favour of the eightfold increase in the level of fines for money laundering, as we have agreed. In this way, we will be at the top of the world, and it will certainly send a signal to the whole financial sector and to the whole world that we do not accept that Danish financial companies consciously or unconsciously contribute to money laundering. The fight against money laundering and financial crime must be a priority in any financial institution in Denmark, because the hammer falls and it falls hard if you squander with respect for the rules. These are rules that we have gradually tightened up in recent years, and the financial sector has also signed up by employing significantly more people. Indeed, thousands have been employed to monitor transactions and investigate customer relationships. So on that point, the law and the austerity have worked. And now we are taking another step, which means that the incentives to comply with the legislation are eightfold, and that is a good thing. The sector must be clean, it also benefits the financial sector in the long run. The bill also contains, as several rapporteurs have said, a number of other elements in addition to this tough course towards money laundering. Among other things: If you want to change the percentage of when you are an SIFI, you have to change the percentage of when you are an SIFI from 5%. at 3%. This is something that will benefit financial stability in Denmark, and it is also something that is recommended by the working group. Then it opens up the possibility for financial undertakings to expand their business areas with activities which are naturally linked to the operation of a financial institution. It can, for example, be done. be financial companies that have better opportunities to develop new digital products for the benefit of consumers. I note that, overall, the draft law is only considered to be of limited importance in relation to new administrative burdens. That's a good thing, too. So, to sum up, we'll sharpen the penalty for those who don't behave properly. We increase the stability of the SIFI and we increase the possibility of innovation without any significant bureaucracy. So, of course, we can support that in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135442	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135444	Is there not any concern on the part of the Conservative People's Party that this expansion of the banking business can create new risks? It is, of course, the customers' deposits that you will then need to engage in new business areas, or that one qua the almost, yes, oligopoly status that large Danish banks at least have in Denmark could constitute unfair competition against some of the perhaps less self-employed, whom the Conservative People's Party probably also has a responsibility to represent in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135521	We represent a great many people in the business world, and what I believe in is that free competition and the opportunities to develop new and innovative products actually benefit everyone. It benefits Danish business, and it also benefits the sector. In the draft law a large number of safeguards have been introduced, precisely in view of the fact that this extension of the possibility of business areas should not be liable to affect banking itself, and hence also the financial sector and financial stability. So I don't share the concern. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... some requirements as to when the bank can actually go in and grant loans in connection with running this ancillary business also in relation to the share of which one may be the owner. Some protective measures have been made to ensure that these two things cannot be mixed together. So I think it makes sense that we give the opportunity to develop FinTech products, that you can use some of the information you have to benefit the customers you have and to develop new innovative products. In fact, I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135620	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135622	It is no more clear than that the National Bank raises a warning flag in connection with this and says that it must be administered very, very narrowly, otherwise it may lead to a risk of financial stability. Nor is it so clear that our central bank, which has the main task of monitoring financial stability, raises a warning signal. So just one comment: the fact that we have to have the free market, innovation and new products sounds really good but what do you think were the arguments of the US financial institutions that, in the decade leading up to the financial crisis, convinced their politicians to deregulate the financial market over there? These were exactly the same arguments that we are now hearing for the deregulations that this bill contains. I just think you should think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135710	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135711	I think you might want to get the proportions in place. In fact, over the last ten years, we have done nothing more than to tighten up the legislation time and again in a large number of areas of the financial sector. We have made greater demands on capital and a large number of other demands. And we have now tightened the money laundering legislation further. What we're talking about here is the possibility of developing something like MobilePay. It can also be if you, for example, are able to do so. We must use some of the data we have to develop other products, so that, for example, if we are going to use the data we have, we are going to use it to develop other products. has an insurance company, may develop an app about damage control and such things where you can use some of the information that you have. In fact, I think we should perhaps have the proportions in place before painting such a scare picture that this could threaten financial stability in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135754	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to this rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023135759	Thank you, President. I regret that I was just washing my hands, but it is rare for the alternative to be so brief. I don't want it to be misunderstood, but I was a little surprised. Thanks for letting me say a little bit anyway. One might wonder whether the legislative proposal we are considering here today is an expression of due diligence on the issue that has been raised. Unfortunately, it is not. It's a post office too late. I guess we've seen one of the biggest scandals in Danish history in this area. Therefore, it would also be totally unacceptable if we did not take the consequences and tried to tighten up this legislation where it is needed. That is why my rapporteur's speech will also focus on the subject which I believe is of concern to most viewers and Danes, namely whether this bill is what is needed and whether it is possible to imagine that what happened at Danske Bank and perhaps now also at Nordea Bank could have happened if this law had been there. It must be admitted that there is no law providing any guarantee. I think that the sharpening of the penalty on the personal level makes a difference. That is the good news, and that is why, as part of the conciliation circle, we can, of course, support the bill. It's time we tighten up on these things. But it is also clear to me that this is not enough in itself, and there are two areas in which I do not feel that we have come to the full end. This is not something that is necessarily about this bill, so it is not because I want to give notice to amendments or anything, but it is about the problem of how to avoid getting into the situation of such large-scale money laundering scandals as we have been faced with. After all, it is difficult to agree with oneself on whether one should have the most nausea about where the money that has been earned and washed white comes from, and all the people who have had to suffer to get the large amount of black money, or whether one should get the most nausea about what that money has been spent on, after they have been washed white, by the despots and regimes that have benefited from money laundering. That is why it is such a serious issue that more is needed, we believe, than the legislation that we hope will be adopted, which tightens the penalties. It is a question of resources and opportunities for supervision. It is a matter of the fact that, if you are to match such large units, there simply has to be sufficient staff and a sufficient willingness to carry out the checks that need to be carried out. It's one thing. Then, of course, it is also access to colleagues and systems in other countries, because these forms of crime move across borders and over to the resort of other authorities, you might say, and over to other institutions. I know that there is a very special community of values between Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party when it comes to the European Community, namely opposition at all costs. But I simply find it difficult to accept that one should be accused of taking a serious position, because it is easy to see that sometimes, by sharing the sovereignty of one's country with the sovereignty of other countries, countries that are also ready to share their sovereignty with us, we can together win sovereignty over something that we cannot do alone. It seems to me to be such an obvious and obvious truth. If we are ever to be able to come after major financial players, I do not understand why we did not receive warnings from Germany as it has been, for example. in relation to the dividend case. You can ask a lot of questions. Some of this is about the banking union, and that is quite right, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted points out, not because I want to move the entire supervision down to Brussels. We still need to get rid of the Danish supervision. They are the ones who have to go after our banks, but why on earth we should not give them the platform and the opportunity for ongoing cooperation with colleagues in other countries, I do not understand. Then you can ask yourself, and it is not to reopen the whole old debate on Europol • about the possibility of coming after organised crime, as this is, after we have now got this very special agreement with Europol. Let's hope it doesn't get much worse than it is. We will then follow up on that. But to me, and we are going to pursue this, there is also a European track, and that is not because I, I had almost said, dream about or will use every opportunity to speak up the European one. That is because I believe that there is actually a practical benefit here from cooperating more than we are doing today. I can understand that the Danish People's Party can make itself think that this is a really bad idea, but that Enhedslisten can make himself think that this is a bad idea, I do not understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140310	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140315	Well, then it's a good thing I have the opportunity to answer. It's funny about this EU debate that it always has to be done so black and white. Let me try to make my views clear. Just as stupid as making the European Union responsible for everything is just as stupid as pointing out the European Union as the answer to everything. We have nothing in the Enhedslisten against international cooperation. In many cases we do not even object to surrendering sovereignty to supranational institutions; we have done so when it comes to the European Court of Human Rights and a number of other things. When I criticise the Prime Minister, it is because I think he abused a discussion about the profit scandal to talk about a banking union that has nothing to do with it. In fact, I believe that, regardless of whether you are critical of the European Union we have today or whether you, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard, is very enthusiastic about the fact that it is beneficial to the people that we are honest when we argue for or against, according to what each of us stands for. I'm out of time this time, so I'm gonna sign up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140410	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140412	I do not quite know what the question was, so allow me to say that what the Prime Minister has said, I am not aware of. But I am certainly very honest about why I think that European cooperation can benefit here. I have very often had the opportunity to discuss these matters with Mr. Pelle Dragsted, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted always says: we have nothing against international cooperation; we also want to cooperate. But the problem is that in those cooperations that then actually exist and where we could actually go in and join, then do not just want to do it because there is some smell in the bakery that is not 100% okay. But it's never a hundred percent we'd like. This is not the case here in the Folketing. After all, we can never get the one hundred per cent that each of us would like to do fortunately, I almost said, because there must be democracy and justice. But it's close. Europe has a platform for finding common compromises. And we certainly agree on one thing: to fight the mess that this laundering scandal is. Why shouldn't we go 100 percent into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140512	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140514	The problem is that the European Union is not like that. In the European Union, the banking lobby has a huge influence. Now we are discussing the STS regulation. Where's the idea for it born? In the European banking lobby. Where did the text come from? From the European banking lobby. Whose interests will the STS regulation promote? The ability of large banks to improve their business models in order to make more money in order to increase debt in Europe. I mean, it's just too naive, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard. I would like to discuss many of these things, but we also need to look at the European Union we have. And, specifically, with regard to the banking union, the rapporteur must also deal with the fact that we are entering the banking union and we will remain, for example, in the banking union. We are not going to be able to decide on a new financial crisis here in Denmark, for example. whether a bank is to be restructured, sold out, settled or what is to happen to it. We put that decision in a completely different place where we do not even have participation ourselves. It's an honest thing to discuss whether it's wise or not. It is not a question of being against international cooperation or international cooperation. I wish sometimes we could just have a more intelligent debate on these things where things weren't cut out so hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140620	I don't know how hard I cut things out. I'm not the one who calls my opponent naive. But if anything is naive, I think, it is the idea that the fight against organised crime and money laundering will benefit if Denmark withdraws from the European Union. If Denmark resigned from the cooperation that is actually present today, in the area that the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party want, namely completely withdrawn from the European Union, then at least I think it is naive to imagine that it is the criminals who are saddened. I think they'd be happy. As far as the STS are concerned, what is on the table is, in fact, an attempt at a kind of classification system to promote the most transparent and transparent forms of financial transactions that we are talking about here. But we will have the opportunity to continue this debate on another good occasion; I am quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140708	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140712	Thank you. In relation to the debate on the European Union which the rapporteur has just mentioned, one of the major problems is that in such a discussion the Radical Left always manages to equate cooperation with others and the surrender of sovereignty. These are two very different forms of cooperation. One is whether we should cooperate with our neighbours and the countries around us on some things, just as free and equal states, while the other is that we should give up power and let others rule in a supranational extension, in which, in reality, both the nation state and the democracy that is thus rooted in the nation state are equally quietly undermined. That is the one thing I would just like to point out in relation to the svada that I think the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten had to put their backs on in the rapporteur's speech. The second point, and the rapporteur has to explain this to me, is that I could understand that the rapporteur said that the Danish People's Party just wanted to withdraw Denmark from the European Union and then the criminals could party. It was something like that. I think it is quite irresponsible to put forward such things from the speaking chair of the Folketing, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140816	I am very sorry about that. I recently read an article in which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, like Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also done so in an article that I have also read in the foreseeable future that one wants a vote on Dexit, or what it should be called, if Denmark should resign from the EU after Brexit has been negotiated. I actually thought that was the position of the Danish People's Party, but if I am wrong there, I am very sorry, but I had understood the fact that the Danish People's Party wanted such a vote on exit from the European Union when Brexit is fixed. But I would very much like to correct it and it will be a happy day for me if I have been wrong in this area. As far as the second point is concerned, it is true that we are of the opinion that in individual areas it certainly does not make sense for everyone, because I certainly do not have a dream about the United States of Europe or anything like this to make sense to share our sovereignty with other countries, and these are particularly those cross-border areas such as the fight against organised crime, terrorism, also the climate area, those areas where we cannot win sovereignty over the problems ourselves. I would then have liked Germany to have been bound to register for the dividend tax, to take a nearby example. Sometimes, then, it makes sense to create binding cooperation in which we also say that here we give each other the sovereignty to actually make binding agreements and binding supranational cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140936	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023140939	I think we should be careful in this debate that we are not led to relate only to the cooperation that exists, so as not to relate to how we would like cooperation to work. And that is where I think that the Radical Left repeatedly, in this debate on the European Union, takes the issue to heart that there is only the cooperation that exists and that it will be so, rather than looking at what European cooperation can be if it is not necessarily supranational European cooperation. That's kind of the mistake I attacked. In relation to the Brexit situation, perhaps I should first of all welcome the regret which I sensed was sent, but also say that yes, it is quite right that there will be a new situation in Britain in a few years' time, but we think we should just look at that situation and then we take it from there, and then we have to see what it ends up with in Great Britain before we do all sorts of other accounts in relation to Denmark's future EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023141033	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023141036	I must say that was the good news of the day to me. So it is no longer the position of the Danish People's Party that we should have a vote on Dexit after Brexit, because now you just want to look at the time. I understand if you have corrected the point of view a little after you have seen what is going on in Britain, but I am nevertheless very pleased. I would say that I can well imagine that European cooperation can work both better and more visionary, and that is not at all because I see it as completely seamless, just as Danish politics could be much better. What I have always found so difficult to understand is that the very construction, that is, the idea of having binding cooperation, is what the opponents are pursuing. But I do not disagree with the fact that there is much in the area of cooperation that then exists that could be worse or better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023141123	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023141128	Thank you for a good and thorough debate, which got a little longer than I expected. However, it is gratifying that there is a great deal of interest in this draft law, and I fully agree that it is quite comprehensive and also complicated. There is no doubt that it is an academically demanding exercise to be a member of parliament when it comes to getting involved in legislative proposals of this scale and complexity. I would very much like to invite you to a technical review over at the Ministry. So you will get an invitation to do so so that any doubts about individual elements of the bill can be clarified if there is a desire to do so. And, of course, I would urge you to take part in it, and then we would be happy to take a thorough look at it all. In relation to the division of the bill, we are happy to do so too. There are a few rapporteurs who have asked for it to be split up so that we can vote for the tighter penalties and perhaps against other parts of the bill. However, I would remind you, in relation to the parties that are members of the financial conciliation group, that it has been sent out into the conciliation circle and that it is therefore the conciliation circle that is behind the draft law. But there are others who are not in the conciliation circle and who are free to vote in favour or against whatever they wish to vote in this Chamber. The reason we have made such a comprehensive bill is probably because I already have 21 legislative proposals to be put forward in this Parliamentary Assembly. And if you were to take every one of these thirty-and-a-half elements of the bill and lay them out separately, we would see a lot of each other down here in the Assembly, you might say, during this session, that is, if we were to have more than 50 legislative proposals to be tabled. So that is simply why. But thank you for the overall positive reception of the bill. The most significant element is, of course, as several people have said, that we are sharpening the fines for infringements of the law on money laundering very significantly. And we do so because we simply believe that there is a need for a stronger incentive to comply with the legislation. When you look at the case of Danske Bank, it is quite clear that not enough has been done to prevent money laundering at Danske Bank. And when you look at it, it is also very clear that there is a need for higher penalties, so that the incentive to prevent money laundering is much greater. And it does now with this very marked increase in the level of punishment that we will hopefully pass with this law. One of the first things I did when I stepped in as a minister was to throw myself over the Danske Bank case, and one of the first things I did when I saw this bill, which was pretty much already prepared when I stepped in, was to say: Well, I think we should take one more round at the penalty level. Originally there was a five-fold increase, and I did not think it was enough, and that is why I proposed that we set it up to an eight-fold increase in the level of fines. And I'm glad there's broad support for all around the Folketing. That would mean that in a case where you make 1.5 billion. kr. in the case of illegal transactions, as the Danske Bank case stands, without having final proof of the whole, but as it appears in any case, it will trigger a fine of between 24 and 30 billion. kr. It's a lot of money at the end of the month. It is a powerful incentive, also for large banks, to prevent and combat money laundering and to have the measures in place to prevent money laundering that we demand of our big banks. We don't want it, we don't accept money laundering in Danish banks. It's a very serious crime. It is a crime in which criminals are helped to carry out criminal activities. Whether it is drug trafficking or arms smuggling, or whatever it may be, it is not something that Danish banks should be able to abuse, and so we expect that there is much, much better control and much better measures in place than there have been in the case that is so full at the moment, and which is the reason for this sharpening which we are now putting forward. It is not enough to sharpen the level of fines. I agree with that too, for example. Mr. Martin Lidegaard, as I think I said. This means that if you are discovered, the penalty will be much greater. What is also important is that the risk of detection is also increased. And that is why there are many other things we also need to do. It is not at all done by raising the level of fines; it is also very important that we strengthen our financial supervision. There we are doing a larger round at the moment. I have asked for a statement from the FSA on what they have of ideas for stronger tools to combat money laundering it can be in the form of stronger legal basis, or it could be more data access, or it could be more resources. Whatever the FSA thinks they need, I have asked them to submit to us, and then we will see if we do not have opportunities to strengthen the FSA, so we will never again get into a situation where a case of this magnitude can run in a Danish bank. There are also other elements in the bill, including: the designation of SIFIs. In order to increase the resilience of the financial sector, we propose that the requirements regarding when an institution can be designated as a so-called systemicly important financial institution, an SIFI, be lowered, thus ensuring that all institutions that have a systemic impact on the Danish financial sector are subject to the rules applicable to SIFIs, which include: involves additional capital upholstery requirements. In this way, we ensure that risks are handled comfortably, and we expect from this that an additional financial institution in Denmark will be designated SIFI during 2019. Then there are a large number of recommendations from the Financial Regulation Review Working Party, which we are also responding to with the bill here. That's what I hear. Enhedslisten say: Why should we deregulate the financial sector at a time when there are so many problems with money laundering in it? There I would like to emphasise that the government's position remains that we should have a strong financial sector in Denmark. It must be strong and clean. The issue of ensuring that we have a clean financial sector is addressed by the fact that there must be severe penalties for money laundering and that there must be effective supervision. However, we do not generally have a wish that it should be difficult to run a bank in Denmark. The rules we must have must serve a purpose. We are not in favour of having unnecessarily cumbersome rules alone to bother the financial sector. So when we have put forward a number of proposals here for areas where we can make regulation more flexible and effective, we still think it is a good thing. We are not trying to prevent the Danish financial sector from functioning. We believe that the financial sector and the banks play a very, very important role in our economy, and so we also have a desire for them to be able to carry out their business and that it is a good and effective regulation that does not create unnecessary obstacles that do not serve any purpose. Here we have seen a large number of rules that we can improve so that it will be easier for the financial sector to channel money to where they can benefit in Danish business and in Danish economy in general. We believe that this is beneficial for Denmark, and it is strange if you think that you should oppose it. There are a number of changes which simplify the rules of financial legislation, which can help create better opportunities for new business models and the development of new products for the benefit of consumers. With the changes, we follow up the recommendations made by the Financial Regulation Review Working Party. This applies, among other things, to: changes to ensure that financial institutions can develop and offer new digital solutions to ancillary activities. It can, for example, be done. be apps that offer customers overview of e.g. consumption, financial relationships across different enterprises or insurance relationships and the like. These changes support the ability of financial institutions to develop and secure their business model in the future in line with digital developments. It is not a question of giving free rein and then banks can start to run all kinds of obscure business, because it must be a continuation of banking. However, as several others have mentioned, it is that you develop, for example. a mobile pay-solution or other digital solutions, very difficult to come up with sensible objections to. At least I think so, and that is what we are giving the opportunity to do now, and it is still gone under the supervision of the FSA. Because they still have to allow the company that the banks will operate. Then there is the question of written consent, which I also think a few people asked about. It is the case today that it also follows from a recommendation from the working group, and we lift the requirement that a financial undertaking obtain the written consent of customers to disclose information. There still needs to be consent, but the consent can, for example, be given digitally instead of it necessarily having to be given in writing. We think that is also to the benefit of our customers. I think there are many people who have become accustomed to giving their consent electronically today, and there is no need to stick to outdated practices simply because they think things should be as they always have been. There is a need for banks to be able to continue to prove that consent has been given, and so I do not think it is a form of deregulation that allows money laundering, or something that otherwise leads the financial sector to put the Danish economy into a mess. It is just that we are removing an inappropriate, old-fashioned workflow, which will make it easier for customers to be customers in the banks, and it is a form of deregulation that the government would very much like to support and very much like to set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142229	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142231	I do not think anyone wants to bother the banks or prevent them from operating. That is certainly not what anyone has as its purpose. What is at stake here is at the same time protecting society from unnecessary risks. I think everyone can see that is quite important and that we therefore have a rather important role to play in regulating this sector. That is why I would like to say to this just to talk about the financial sector as something that is there, that it has always and always been defined by the regulation that surrounds it. In the past, banks and mortgage banks were not allowed to be in the same company, nor were investment banks allowed to be in the same company. We have allowed and regulated that. It was probably not very wise, but what we are doing now is going even further along that path and actually allowing the banks additional business areas. I think that is just a strange step to take 10 years after the financial crisis. But let me ask a very specific question about the STS regulation, which the Minister did not mention. What exactly is it in this bill that is changing in relation to the market for securitisations in Denmark? I understand that legislation on such a third party is being put in place. But what is more than that, for example. the new capital requirements in relation to STS securitisations? Is this something that's being introduced with this bill? It's because it's a little unclear to me when I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142358	After all, it is not a question of introducing the possibility of setting aside all kinds of new business areas in relation to ancillary activities. It is a question of allowing digital solutions to be considered as ancillary companies. I do not think that this is a particularly significant change in the law, but in reality it is only natural that we should, for example, be able to do so. can develop mobile pay or an overview of one's personal economy or something in the style that lies in the natural extension of running a bank. In relation to the STS regulation, the first thing that is important is to make it clear that it is a regulation that is being implemented in Danish legislation and, when it comes to regulations, we do not have the freedom of choice as to whether or not we want to implement them. That is why we cannot decide that we will not do so, because it is an EU regulation. STS's are these combinations, the fact that you put together a lot of loans, and it is then a single product that the banks can hand over to some others. Basically, I think it is very sensible for the banks to have that opportunity. Because it allows banks to get rid of their loans and give them to some others who might be better able to bear the risk of certain loans. This helps to ensure a more solid financial sector and not a less solid financial sector. That is why, basically, I do not think we should criminalise the STS. What is happening with the regulation is that it is put in a more firm framework and if we ensure that the STS are simple, transparent, transparent products, then we can have lower capital requirements than if they are not. It really encourages the STS to be decent, transparent products and not obscure products, as Enhedslisten may fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142600	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the Minister of Industry. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142609	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142625	With this bill, we translate into and for ourselves an agreement that we have already entered into in the conciliation circle back on 22 February this year, where we propose that we follow exactly the same model as we have in Aarhus, where the state is involved in starting up the project, but that, when it is running, we withdraw again, but with the condition that the money we have committed ourselves to is, of course, given as a grant, instead of being a co-owner of the light track. It's a fine, logical conclusion of the deal we've made. It's the same thing you've done in Aarhus. However, I hope we do not run into the same troubles with accidents and things like that that have been in Aarhus we shouldn't do that but that we can get a really good easy track in Ring 3, where there is a very broad settlement with virtually all the parties behind it, which is positive, and where there are also a number of municipalities that have taken responsibility in getting this large-scale public transport project up and running. We welcome this from the Social Democrats. We think it's positive, and we look forward very much to getting this easy track up. There is no doubt that it will be a great offer to the many passengers who want to drive collectively, think green and avoid congestion in cities and other areas. So we support this proposal. I should like to mention that in the community around this light track, a little attention has been paid to whether there was now any influence on how the board should be composed and something else. We in the Social Democratic Party have been pleased to note that a passage has been inserted into the text of the law, in which it is suggested that the ownership circle can help influence the composition of this board and that it is not, as it was originally intended, that the state should define it. So all in all, we're positive and happy about this. We're happy to wait until we get this easy track up and running.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142835	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142841	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, too, of course, we stand by the agreements we make, and this one is one of them. On the other hand, we are also very pleased that this draft law now reduces the risk of further losses to the state by making this a state subsidy, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn rightly mentioned, in the same way that you have done it in Aarhus and in Odense. I think it is wise for us to do it that way. Firstly, we're all dealing with equals, and secondly, we're also reducing the state's risk in this project. So also in relation to the board composition, it is quite natural that this is the ownership circle that holds those positions. Anything else wouldn't be fair. So we support the proposal and look forward in the same way as the Social Democratic Party to see the easy track hopefully going out in not so terribly many years. It will be a huge boost to public transport in Greater Copenhagen, so we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142949	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023142954	Thank you for that, President. My good colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have already explained the content of Bill L 43, which we can support from the Left. As has been said, the draft law means that the contribution at issue by the State is now converted into a grant, a full and final grant, in which the State then withdraws from the project. And then it is the municipalities involved and the region that have the risks associated with the project. We think this is a good thing, it means equality with the Latvians in Aarhus and Odense, and we also think it is healthy that the state goes in with a grant instead. And then it is those who have their hands directly on the hot plate, namely the municipalities and the region, who have the risks associated with the project. It is no secret that we need to strengthen high-quality public transport in and out of the big cities. This is one of the road challenges we have. We can see that car congestion is growing and increasing, which is why we need high-quality public transport. It is no secret that we in the Left are convinced that we will get the most for the money by relying in future on what is called BRT, bus rapid transit. There we get very good public transport for money, completely green public transport. So that is what we should be investing in in order to strengthen public transport by the cities in future. But we have a broad political agreement on these light rails, and of course the Left remains. With these words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143133	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143138	This is not because Enhedslisten has a lot of comments on this, in addition to the comments that have already been made by the previous rapporteurs. We also think that this can be a very sensible approach, and it is clear, as has been said, that the State is limiting its costs in that a project might have to go and become much more expensive than it was planned to do. After all, we saw this in Aarhus, where we almost had to put out fire, and this is prevented by saying that it is a mere grant model. In other words, we can support that. There's a little crunchy, or whatever to call it. We understand from the observations made by the draft law that the subsidy, which is, after all, maintained on these approx. 40%, including 10%. of the correction reserve, which is in line with the new plant budgeting. What we are going to ask a little is perhaps the 20% which is then put in the central plant reserve, namely whether the light rail project will be able, if necessary, to draw on the central plant reserve, i.e. at least 20%, which the project puts in the central plant reserve. I ask, of course, because it is the Minister of Transport who has to give his approval if there is to be a move on the central plant reserve. Now the light rail project has been a bit controversial, and it is probably still gone, and therefore it could of course be interesting to hear whether the Minister of Transport could at this stage indicate whether, if it is necessary in due course, he will release funds from the central plant reserve to make the project coherent. However, with the question that we can also go for further discussion in committee, I would say that the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143418	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143425	Thank you. After all, it looks like a quite peaceful discussion of a draft law here in something that might otherwise be quite controversial, namely the transport sector. But it seems to be one kindness today, and I will certainly not disturb that. Because it is quite sensible measures that are being taken here. Then there will be a consequence of an earlier decision so that it naturally comes to that. I shall not prolong the debate except by saying that the Liberal Alliance supports it. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143458	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143505	Thank you. L 43 is a change in the construction of the capital's Letbane ownership structure, and this has been very well examined by the previous rapporteurs. It is the execution of a resolution in the green conciliation circle, which to those who do not know it is the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. The alternative has actually asked to become part of the green conciliation circle, but has not received positive feedback. We're a little puzzled about that. So it is just a comment from this that we would, of course, like to help push for good, broad conciliation in the Folketing and some good green solutions within our transport policy strategies and priorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143600	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143615	It will be exciting to see the shin effect in practice when the light rails around the country come on track. SF has high expectations of one of the collective modes of transport of the future, namely the light rails. SF also supports the state stepping out of the Capital's Letbane I/S, so we get a more rigorous organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143638	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll have time to get Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143646	Thank you, President. I'm sorry I'm late. The fact that the Radical Left supports this bill is by no means an indication that we are not supporting the Ring 3. On the contrary, we believe that it will help create a great deal of urban development and solve a lot of congestion and environmental problems in the metropolitan area to create the easy path. The reason we support the bill is that we believe it will make it easier for the Greater Copenhagen Letbane to drive the trains when it is built. It will also make it easier with the many discussions that have been, what should happen with the easy track, that it is now the municipalities and the region itself that stand for it and that the state is out of it. We believe that it will simplify and streamline the processes that need to be carried out around the easy track, that it will be left to the local and regional level. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143743	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143748	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim of the draft law is to create the legal framework for implementing the decision taken by the Green Group in February of this year. The decision was for the State to withdraw fully from the capital city Letbane partnership, and for the state commitment to the easy track of Ring 3 as a result to be transformed into a grant model. In addition to the fact that the State withdraws its board members from the Board of Directors of the capital city of Letbane and converts the state contribution into a grant of the same amount as previously agreed, no other substantive changes are made. The other small adjustments included in the Bill are the result of the two substantive changes in the legal basis for the light field of Ring 3. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law, including for committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143853	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143906	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023143922	This bill, too, is a good example of creating exciting and important innovation by using public transport. Here you will be able to dig down the Ny Ellebjerg Station so that you can create an enormously exciting and visionary urban development project on top of the station. The fact that you do so also gives some revenue that can be co-financing to make this big boost to public transport, where we get Ny Ellebjerg as a new traffic hub, where you can switch as a passenger from intercity and S-train to metro. So it really is an exciting boost and a step in the right direction, and it shows how many exciting opportunities we have in Denmark when we think creatively and newly. Here it is the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg that have joined together. The state has been in and allowed to make this piece of land available, and then you can make this exciting development, where we can ensure necessary and visionary public transport to the citizens, so that we have less congestion on the roads, while also having visionary urban development with more housing for those who want to live in the Copenhagen area. All in all, it is exciting and right and visionary, and we from the Social Democrats think that this is something that needs to be backed up. We have then, of course, also read the answers to the hearings, and we have noted that among other things. The City of Copenhagen has been somewhat uncertain as to whether the conditions relating to the consultation process are sufficient. We have then also seen the consultation note where the Ministry believes that there are actually good opportunities for consultation. But that is one of the things we could imagine we would like to ask some clarification questions and hear the Minister a little more about. Because it is important for us when we do such a project as this, that the citizens have the best opportunities to be involved and taken on board, so that no one feels that it is going over their heads at least in a sense other than that the train is going underground and that there is something over their heads in that way. But we support this proposal. This is a real step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144131	I have some doubts as to whether Mr. Kim Christiansen wants to make a brief comment or it's a mistake. But then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested to Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144145	Thank you. Yes, exciting, important lifting and urban project etc. etc., says Mr. Rasmus Prehn. But has it not struck the Social Democratic Party at all that it may be a rather strange construction to use the Metro Society suddenly for urban development? Well, I mean, the subway company is probably good at running the metro, I'd say, but is urban development. I'm surprised it hasn't beaten at all, sir. Rasmus Prehn or the Social Democratic Party that it might be a problem. I believe that you have both City and Port, which have competence in this area, and then you will also have the City of Copenhagen, which has a great deal of competence in this area. One might also ask the question: Should it not somehow be the City of Copenhagen that took care of urban development in its own city, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144255	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144257	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this is a cooperation between the City of Copenhagen, the Municipality of Frederiksberg and the Metro Society and the State, so the municipality is involved in this. And it is a well-known fact that the whole reason why we have been able to make the metro we have in Copenhagen has been that urban development projects have been made, where you have been able to make money on some land sale and some urban development, which has then been co-financing to get a metro. I know that Enhedslisten has been against that. So, were it to Enhedslisten, one could not go to the metro today; then one had to go to stand and wait for a bus. For Enhedslisten was against the concept that was created years ago when you made the metro, where you agreed to sell some land and use the money to finance the metro. So we have chosen to say: we believe that something can be created together. You can do what you call co-creation with a modern word, and this has been done in Copenhagen years ago, by associating with various stakeholders and then creating some development of our city for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144405	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144407	Now it was precisely the financing model that we were opposed to. We weren't against the subway as such, so I guess it would have been there anyway. We should have just found another way to finance it than by basic speculation, which is really what we have done. But that was not my question at all. My question was: Now you have the construction with the City and Port and the Metro Company, the Metro Company, which operates the metro; City and Port that is developing the area. Why, then, is it the Metro Society that is set to develop the city all of a sudden in the middle of the City of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144434	This is the solution that has been agreed between the municipalities and there is a huge potential here. We think it's exciting. But if it's important to Mr. Henning Hylllested and Enhedslisten, we can take a few clarification questions about it. What has been the reasoning behind this? This has not been the main focus of social democracy. It has been that we have urban development and that we have public transport, which is first-class, while the democratically elected citizens' representatives and city council members are involved in this, so there is democratic hand in hand with it. We are not interested in democratisation, we want to democratise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen's turn on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144520	In the Danish People's Party, of course, we support this proposal. It is a really exciting project with New Ellebjerg Station as a traffic hub, and in order for it to be financially easier to slip down, the state has chosen this solution to convert an expense of 120 million. kr. for the use of this runway area and so finance it by development. I know how to do it, just like Mr. Kevin. Henning Hyllested may also surprise me that it is not put under the normal regime, as it has been customary, but as Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned, it has been agreed that it should be this construction. We in the Danish People's Party as such have no objection to that. As I said, this is a really exciting project, and we should not forget that it can also have the side effect that it can relieve Copenhagen Central Station, which is already very pressured on capacity. So we're looking forward to seeing this project move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144627	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144634	I would like to make it clear that L 46 is a very good legislative proposal, which offers the opportunity to make an optimal solution at Ny Ellebjerg Station, which is a central hub of traffic in the capital. With this bill, we will be able to finance the creation of a very good underground station so that we can have an optimal shift between different modes of transport. That is precisely what is crucial if we want more people to take advantage of public transport. Then it has to be easy and comfortable for passengers, and that's what we're gonna do with this bill. Technically speaking, we are allowing the Minister to transfer the building rights of the State's railway area at Ny Ellebjerg Station to the Metro Company, and that is what provides this funding, where it is 120 million for the State. kr. put into the project. This will give us a very good project that strengthens public transport in the metropolitan area, and I would like to welcome the fact that the metro is a success that transports thousands of people every day under the streets of Copenhagen, instead of there being even more congestion on the streets. When the Metrocity ring opens soon we can see that it is progressing in the different places where there has been a building lot for years then we get a really good public transport in the capital. We're not finished, but it'll be a gigantic boost, and so will this project at Ny Ellebjerg Station. With these comments, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144813	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023144826	We think this is a very strange construction, which is being laid up, and this is being done in order to make the calculation go up, in connection with the establishment of a future subway station at Ny Ellebjerg as an underground station instead of the one that should have been in the terrain as originally decided. And that is also to prevent the state from having to get money out of its pockets directly. The State will hand over its building rights in and around and also over the station area to the Metro Company. The estimated value is 120 million. kr., and it then constitutes the state contribution to the establishment of the underground station. This means, in short, that it will be the Metro Company that will be the city developer of the station area at Ny Ellebjerg, and it is explicitly urban development that is involved, as it is predicted that a whole new town will be set up with all that is involved in housing and shops, and what I know. Honestly, we're not comfortable with that in the Enhedslisten. We think that the Metro Company should be used for what the Metro Company is best at, namely to operate the metro, including establishing metro stations. However, allowing the Metro Company to develop a whole new district is not responsible. This is basically not the case in the Metro Company, which is why two companies were established in the past: the Metro Company, which was responsible for the construction and operation of the Copenhagen metro, and the City & Port, which was responsible for the land development which was intended to finance the metro to a large extent. So it is not because you do not have the necessary expertise at your disposal; it is just in the city and harbour, first and foremost, and why it is not this company that should have the task of developing the area at Ny Ellebjerg, I think is in the dark. The comments have certainly made an attempt to explain this strangeness as we think it is. This is the third paragraph of point 3.1.2 of the comments, which appoints the development task at Ny Ellebjerg Station to constitute a special design. But this explanation is simply so sought that it is not credible in our view. One might also have left it to the City of Copenhagen to develop an important area in their own city. So, at all events, it seems to me that there are a lot of people who want to decide how to develop the city, remembering Lynetteholmen, who suddenly flunked down from the sky or was it from the Prime Minister's table? It is true that it is the City of Copenhagen that is required to draw up a local plan, but it must be done on the basis of an overall plan drawn up by the Metro Company. What if the City of Copenhagen does not think that the overall plan is good? In fact, it is also the Metro company which is to conduct the architectural competition to which the overall plan is to be drawn up. I should say that the City of Copenhagen probably has more experience of this kind, such as an architect's competition. There are many interests at stake at Ny Ellebjerg, including the station building itself. New Ellebjerg must develop into a future hub of traffic, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, and must relieve Copenhagen Central Station. There is much traffic other than the metro to be taken into account: S-trains, regional trains, regional traffic, and the new Copenhagen-Ringsted railway takes its starting point here. And it would also be natural, in our opinion, to establish the new long-distance bus terminal here instead of at Dybbølsbro, just as Movia, in her hearing reply, draws attention to the need for a number of its bus lines at Ny Ellebjerg. I can see from the comments that the Metro Company is supposed to cooperate on the task with others. But the wording leaves something to be desired. Thus, it is stated that the Metro Company should cooperate with an urban development operator, such as the City & Port Development Company, there it was again in order to set up a joint development company for the task. I guess it's somewhere a realization that the Metro Company may not be the best at doing the job, but why let them try? How many urban development actors do you really want? It can gradually become a real mess of companies responsible for urban development in Copenhagen. One final problem: it has become a practice for large-scale infrastructure investments, like this one, to cut off citizens, and indeed DSB here too, from redress. After that, it is only possible to complain through the courts, which is a long and expensive process that most people will refrain from. Set-up effect will be an illusion, which is also the purpose of cutting the right of appeal across a broad spectrum. The Enhedslisten has previously pointed out that it is contrary to the Århus Convention when people are prevented from complaining about the environmental conditions during the construction of a large project such as this. The City of Copenhagen is concerned about the cut-off of the right of appeal and proposes that this part of the bill be withdrawn. The unitary list will make this proposal its own during the committee procedure. The DSB also expresses great concern and, of course, fears that they will not be able to prevent major disruptions to the operation of the train at Ny Ellebjerg, and Freja Ejendomme also joins this chorus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145340	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145354	Thank you for the floor, President. When you listen to the debate, there is a clear consensus that it is very good to have a new Ellebjerg Station buried, so there will be other options than what was in the original proposal so far, so well. Then I don't think we should just stand here and neglect sir. Henning Hyllested's remark that this is something new, you try something else. That's pretty much true. I think that the points are absolutely correct and therefore it is also exciting to follow whether what you believe in is now succeeding or there will be greater concern, because that is certainly not a clue to follow if it should happen. But now it has been chosen on the basis of the belief that it is right in this construction, and that is why we naturally support the proposal. But I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested has sharpened attention to the fact that it is something new you try, and therefore there must be some who follow this closely so that we do not get a bad case out of it, because everyone agrees that it is actually a good project and that it is really good that it is being dug down. So with that, the Liberal Alliance can for the time being support the proposal, and I should like to welcome once again from the Conservative People's Party, which could not be here, and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145505	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Roger Courage Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145512	Thank you. Yes, we can support the bill as a starting point. We can, because of course we want to make it more attractive and think it is good that we make it more attractive for Copenhageners and Danes in general to use public transport. It is a necessity that we invest, it is a necessity that we do it wisely too, and there I think it is wise that we actually get this station buried. However, the Enhedslisten is quite right in its concerns and, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance also advocates, this is certainly something we must follow closely. The question is whether this is a construction that is viable and, if so, we have a new basis for comparison in these cases. As a starting point, I am confident that a professional company of a size like the Metro company wants to run a proper business, but of course we have to pay attention to these new structures. So in these words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145619	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145624	Very much congestion in our capital is due to people driving when entering and leaving the City of Copenhagen. Therefore, it has been a great wish for the Radical Left to develop New Ellebjerg Station for many years to a place where you can both come by metro, you can come by distance and regional train towards Zealand and towards Funen and Jutland, and you can come by S-train, for which Ny Ellebjerg is also a station. That's why we're glad we got the subway to Ny Ellebjerg. We're happy with the investments being made in the station, and we're also happy with this bill where the subway station becomes underground. In our view, this will make it better and easier for people to get around between the different types of public transport. It will also make it easier if you will eventually take the metro or light track to Ny Ellebjerg from Glostrup through e.g. Hvidovre and hit Hvidovre Hospital. We also think it makes sense to create urban development in connection with Ny Ellebjerg, which this law lays down, so that more people can live close to a station from which you can both travel to Zealand, go by S-train or go by metro into the centre of Copenhagen. So we think that this bill puts the finishing touches on a great many initiatives that have been taken in recent years to make Ny Ellebjerg a hub for all possible rail traffic in Denmark, because this solves many of the congestion problems that are in the capital. So we can support the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145809	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145813	I fully agree that this is a good project in many ways. New Ellebjerg becomes a hub full of life and a great many different modes of transport that meet and where you can change and change. That makes sense. But again, as I also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, isn't it a little strange that a new construction is now being found to develop in the City of Copenhagen? Because this isn't just a station building, it's a whole new town you want to set up, among other things. Over the station. It is a little strange, at least Enhedslisten thinks that you will find a brand new player in this area, even though, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, you have expertise at your disposal, be it City & Harbour, be it the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023145911	I would like to start by commending Enhedslisten, because when we made the settlement about Togfonden DK, it was you who fought an investment in what is called a flyover, through at Ny Ellebjerg Station. Therefore, you also have great honor for the good development that is happening there. I haven't given any thought to the fact that it was strange for a new player to get on the field. I think it is logical that, when it is the Metro Company that is supposed to build the station, it is also those who have hand in hand with if there is to be built on top of that station. I think that makes very good sense for the two buildings not to bother each other. I have mostly thought that this kind of practically made very good sense, and have also noticed that the City of Copenhagen, which owns the City & Port company, has also been involved in it, so I see no problems in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150001	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150003	Okay, that's fair enough, of course. I do not think that the Metro company in its time when the Metrocity ring was being built, and it is still going to be demonstrated that the greatest understanding of the population that is now going to be bothered during the construction phase and such. And I'm just thinking that now you get that company to come and mess around out there instead of perhaps having some other people to do what has a little bit more expertise in this area and perhaps also a little more understanding that there is a population around the area with which you need to engage, and there is a municipality that you need to engage in dialogue with in order to get the best out of the project, but also so that you bother as little as possible during the construction phase as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150047	After all, the challenges posed by the construction of the metro in relation to noise and noise and dust are something in which the people must approach us, because it was we who had decided it and also chose to change the decision and make very favourable arrangements for the citizens so that they could live somewhere else or get a sum of money to live with the noise. So it wasn't the Metro Society's fault, it was the Folketing that had decided it. Then I also hope that the Metro Company will hire someone who can figure out how to build; I certainly expect that to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150121	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150130	The metro is a success, every day it transports thousands of passengers safely around Copenhagen. Sometimes large projects only succeed if different parties come together and decide to pull in the same direction in this situation for the benefit of the city, passengers and the environment. The building right over the state's runway area at Ny Ellebjerg Station helps finance the project with an underground station. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150206	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150209	I will not ask the rapporteur what I have asked the other rapporteurs. Hasn't it fallen, sir? Karsten Hønge in front of the chest, that once again you can almost say again that you will remove the right of appeal for citizens and in this case too, for example. DSB? It is in many ways similar to other major construction projects in recent times that you do it there, because you want to ensure the momentum of the project. However, this gives rise to great tumult and great discussions with the people. You are also inclined to run over the public's head just to ensure the momentum, because of course this is an expensive project in this situation. So I am thinking: we have already announced that, in accordance with the City of Copenhagen, we will be tabling amendments to remove that cut-off of the right of appeal from the bill. Could the SF perhaps support such an amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150313	We have not made that part of it quite clear, because we think there are serious arguments for and against. I don't think so, sir. Henning Hyllested just like it manufactures that it's just a matter of ensuring propulsion. It's actually an important thing. In other words, ensuring the momentum of a project has enormous consequences for the economy of what will then also fall back on the rest of the citizens who are in that area, in this situation in Copenhagen. And I actually think that the last process we went through a few years ago was an entirely unnecessary stay that was in the construction project then. So, experience from then on makes me tend to think that it is a good idea to get it done once and for all, because I think that our experience back then was that there was a totally unnecessary obstruction in the work. On the other hand, I would also like to take part in the final decision in considering whether a model could be found that was more appropriate to the citizens. However, we will tend to maintain that it is a good idea once and for all to decide on a project, including taking into account the genes that may come but thus ensure the momentum.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150421	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150421-2	In other words, whether at the various stations of the Metrocity ring, etc., at the time. I am not sure that I agree with the rapporteur on this point. But the whole idea is precisely that you go in a very, very close dialogue in advance with the surrounding settlements and residents, so you just avoid a sea of complaints. That is what the Metro Society at the time failed to do in our opinion. Therefore, it is also that we fear that the same thing will happen again, because the Metro Company does not have primary competences in this area. That is why we can again be in such trouble, rather than engaging in very, very close dialogue with the residents, so as to prevent this, which the rapporteur calls unnecessary obstructions, from occurring.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150515-2	Well, I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested is quite right that it was not uniquely the residents who did one, it must be said, very effective complaint work. The metro company also behaved at that time, completely shockingly, unnecessarily to the residents. Then, fortunately, the Folketing managed to be very generous and get a solution that made everyone seem to end up being satisfied. However, we would like to consider whether this is the right cut for redress.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150547	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150557	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the bill. In June 2014, an agreement was reached between the then Transport Minister and the City of Copenhagen to continue the metro from Cityringen via the South Harbour to Ny Ellebjerg Station. It was provided in the agreement that the Ny Ellebjerg Metro Station was to be built in terrain. In October 2016, an agreement was concluded between the State at the then Minister for Transport and Building, the Municipality of Copenhagen and the Municipality of Frederiksberg on the financing of an underground location of the Ny Ellebjerg Metro Station. The price of the excavation of the station was estimated at 615 million at 2013 prices. kr. The purpose of the agreement was to create good re-entry conditions for passengers at Ny Ellebjerg Station and to ensure the future of the metro for a possible continuation. According to the agreement, the State's share of the additional cost of burial is financed by the State transferring the building rights over the State's runway area at Ny Ellebjerg Station to the Metro Company. The Metro company will then be responsible for the development of the area in order to obtain a net revenue of 120 million. kr., which is the State's share of the additional cost of the burial. This bill therefore provides the legal framework for the State to make its contribution to the excavation of the station and thus to implement the October 2016 agreement. Thus, the bill empowers me to transfer the building rights over the state's runway area at Ny Ellebjerg Station to the Metro Company. At the same time, the objective clause of the Metro company is extended so that it is expressly authorised to use the building rights and to develop the area at Ny Ellebjerg Station. The development of the area will be achieved by building a load-bearing deck over the runway area, which can be built up housing etc. On. The development project will therefore also have a positive impact on the local area, as noise from rail traffic is reduced and there is a connection across the runway area which is currently cutting through Valby. The development of the area at Ny Ellebjerg Station must be based on the general rules governing such a development project. However, the construction of the load-bearing deck differs from the subsequent construction work on top of the deck, as the work on the deck is largely carried out on or over a runway area in operation. It is therefore necessary, during the initial parts of the development project, to cut off the right of appeal under a number of laws in order to avoid delays and costs and to disrupt the operation of the train to and from Copenhagen Central Station. It is also necessary to create access to the application of a number of provisions of the Cityring Act to permit feasibility studies, to impose building lines, to expropriate property, to lay down noise rules, etc. Finally, I would like to stress that the development project has not yet been described or finally defined. Prior to the launch of the development project, an architect competition for the development project is expected, so it is necessary for the Metro Company as project manager to demonstrate with this bill that the company has or will certainly have legal title to develop the area. I would like to thank you once again for the positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150942	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023150947	Yeah, 'cause maybe the minister can solve it. Now I have mentioned this both in some questions and in my rapporteur's speech. Why is this task of developing an area in the City of Copenhagen ended up with the Metro Company? I understand that the Metro company must be involved in building the subway station itself, which is underground, and it is true that one has to make a deck over if one wants to use the area or use it wisely. But why it is the Metro Company that should have that task, I do not understand when, as I say, you have expertise both on the right and on the left that can actually be responsible for urban development. That's not the main competence of the Metro Company.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151028-2	This is because there are some advantages to the developer who has to do with the construction of the station, also has to do with the development of the area itself. Conversely, there would be disadvantages in the fact that there could be conflicting interests between the developer behind the station building and the company behind the development of the land. In other words, there may be situations in which the advantages and disadvantages have to be weighed against each other by different solutions, and it is good that it is one company that has an interest in both projects that weighs the advantages and disadvantages rather than two different companies that can misjudge things because they think only of their own interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151114	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151115	I understand that very well, but if you have to look at it overall and tell me who it is that has the greatest interest in the whole area out there, then I suppose it is really the City of Copenhagen, as it is a matter of developing a small but yet completely new town. That is why I think it would have been sensible to let the City of Copenhagen be the superior, of course, with all the considerations to be taken into account. Because it is not just the Metro Company; it is also DSB; it is also Movia etc. etc. to be taken into account. So it is true that there may of course be opposing interests, but it is really the City of Copenhagen that has the greatest overall interest in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151158	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151159	Well, we have also experienced situations where public authorities have had to weigh up different interests. Let me mention the signal programme, where it has been up to Banedanmark to balance the interests of the operator DSB with the supplier of on-board equipment, which was Alsthom, and it was difficult to coordinate those interests and make a decision. So it can go well with such things, but it can also go wrong. In this case, we just want the most secure model that ensures that interests are shared, so that small things in one place do not counteract the best solution in the other place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151235	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151248	The debate is open. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151306	Thank you for that, President. This bill is basically about three things. Firstly, this is an extension of the temporary reduction in the basic capital grant from 14 per cent. 10%. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a good idea. Secondly, there is the differentiation of basic capital so that building smaller housing becomes more attractive to the municipalities in that they have to inject less money, i.e. 8%. for dwellings less than 90 m2, 10%; for housing between 90 and 105 m2, and then it is 12% when you get into the largest dwellings. We think this is sensible, because today there is a need to build less general housing. There has been a tendency for very large general housing to be built, but there is also a need for more recent housing to have some which are slightly smaller. So we support this in the Social Democracy too. Finally, there is the possibility that, if there is no demand, elderly housing for general youth housing can be converted. It is, as I understand it, one of the leaders of a local case in Djursland, where you have simply had difficulty renting out old homes, and therefore you have to remark them in order to get some students in. As long as there is idleness, it makes sense to use the general housing stock as sensibly as possible so that tenants have to pay as low rent as possible. So we support that too. So, overall, I have to tell you that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151453	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151506	Yes, sir. Kaare Dybvad presented the proposal here very well. Of course, the Danish People's Party also thinks it is a good idea for us to continue with a basic capital of 10%, which is the starting point that has been in a number of years now that will ensure this stable development in general housing. What is new is the differentiated basic capital, which makes very good sense, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad also mentioned, by ensuring that as many cheaper homes as possible are built, more than we have seen for several years. In any case, we try to motivate best by differentiating. In addition, it is also possible, as described, to open up the possibility that the elderly housing which is not being used and where there is a rental business which causes problems can now be used for youth housing. Of course it also makes really, very good sense, and for us it is really important that it is up to 10 years, that is, then the municipality must have found a different solution to the problems that you see. So all in all, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151607	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151616	Thank you. The bill we are considering today translates the agreement that the government and KL entered into as part of the 2019 Economic Agreement. In recent years we have seen an increase in housing prices and size both in the general sector and in the housing market in general, which means that students, single families and small families, for example, have difficulty entering the housing market. KL and the government have therefore agreed that more smaller and cheaper housing should be built. As you know, municipalities play a crucial role in the development of the general housing sector, since it is the municipalities which decide on the number of new general housing to be built and, in order to encourage municipalities to build less and cheaper, the government wants to extend the reduction of the basic municipal capital for general elderly and youth housing, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and to introduce a new model of municipal basic capital for general family housing. The aim of the proposal is to have more housing available to pay, including in large cities. In addition, the bill contains a proposal to allow municipalities to rent municipal-owned general housing for the elderly as general youth housing if they are not aware of the fact that they are empty. We think this is a very good idea, as it will address the problems of municipalities with the availability of general housing for the elderly and limit the idle rent. However, I would like to make it quite clear that, of course, the elderly have priority for general elderly housing, and it is only if there is no demand for housing from the eligible population that the unemployed general elderly housing can be rented as youth housing for a period of up to 10 years. The aim of the bill is to ensure access to housing that is affordable for students, singles and small families, and to make the best use of the existing housing stock. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151824	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023151835	I take it for our housing rapporteur, Søren Egge Rasmussen, who is for important negotiations on food, as far as I know. We have a great need for general housing in this country, and it is good that the municipalities can demand 25%. general housing in new local planning areas; we think that is really fine. It is positive that the agreement between KL and the government opens up the possibility that the municipal expenditure on the construction of small dwellings will be reduced by the system of differentiated basic capital. We also support the evaluation of this system of differentiated basic capital; that is very good. In passing, we note that the Social Affairs Council points out that the bill here does not guarantee enough cheap, affordable housing for low-income citizens. It is true that in 2019 and 2020 new general housing will not be cheap, but the rent will not increase in the future as in the private rental building, one must assume. The Enhedslisten also supports the possibility for municipal-owned elderly housing to be rented as youth housing if that is what is needed locally. However, we cannot quite understand why it should not be an option that built elderly housing can be rented out as youth housing for more than 10 years. If there is a need for youth housing locally, surely it should be able to continue. Of course, we would like answers to that in committee. We would also like answers to how many elderly housing municipalities are expected to rent as youth housing and which municipalities have currently indicated that they have a need. But overall, the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152032	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Henning Hylllested from Mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152037	Thank you. I cannot help but stand up when the rapporteur says that low-cost housing is not being provided. So now we have seen how the rapporteur's party has voted against the building of general housing at Amager Samled; against the building of general housing in the area known as Lille Vesterbro; against the building of general housing at Mølleparken in Aarhus; against the building of general housing at Falckstationen in Holbæk, even cheap general housing; against the building of general housing in Bredballe in Vejle, that is to say, all these places vote against, even in Aalborg, the building of general housing, and then one stands in here and says that one wants more cheap general housing. Can the rapporteur mention a single place where Enhedslisten has actually voted in favour of general housing when there has been an opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152127	Yeah, I guess I could, if I'd gotten into things in advance. I have to admit that since I am not a housing rapporteur, I cannot shake it out of my sleeve. I'd like to admit that. In other words, we have taken note of the fact that there is a consultation answer from among others. The Social Deprived Council, which, moreover, supports the draft law without any doubt, but which points out, as I said in passing, that this does not directly lead to cheaper housing, i.e. affordable housing for the poorest, those with the lowest incomes. We don't think this bill makes that possible. However, it is clear that with the draft law, I also drew attention to this, the municipalities will have opportunities to establish cheaper housing, among other things. As a result of the differentiated basic capital that can be deployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152230	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152232	Well, I'm really sorry that Enhedslisten I know Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's qualities, moreover, do not show up with his housing rapporteur, who can discuss this matter. This is an important matter. But I would like to know when it is cheap enough to say that there is a shortage of cheap housing and that the new ones will not be cheap. So, in Holbæk we build 154 low-cost housing • Lejerbo builds them and the newly built dwellings will have a rent of about DKK 4,000. Isn't that cheap enough? So, how cheap should newly built dwellings be before Enhedslisten thinks they are cheap enough, and therefore also votes to build cheap housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152307	Yeah, well, we're voting to build cheaper homes. We're also saying that this bill leads to cheap housing. We're specifically pointing that out. We are simply pointing out that there is a consultation answer from among others. The Council of Social Affairs Ministers, pointing out that there is still no possibility for those with the lowest incomes; housing is still not cheap enough. After all, we have a huge problem with people with the lowest incomes finding it difficult to pay the rents, even in the non-profit building that is being set up, even though this bill certainly guarantees cheaper housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152345	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152357	Thank you. Every summer, just around the start of studies, the pages of newspapers are filled with stories about young people who cannot find a place to live in the major educational towns. Although it must of course be really nice for the editors around that they have something to write about during the summer holidays, I dream of a summer without such stories. Because it has major consequences when young students cannot find a place to live that they can afford to pay. It has it both for society in general, but also for the individual. Some will have to find alternative places to stay far away, others may have to drop the studies that they want to go on. This is what is called real slavery in Jutland. Although it is not a human right to live in the middle of Copenhagen or in the middle of Aarhus while studying, the housing situation should certainly not be an obstacle to continuing in your study. This is why the government and the municipalities agree to increase the financial incentive to build more smaller housing which is to pay for young students and for young families. At the same time, with this bill, we are giving the municipalities the opportunity to make empty old homes available to the students by renting them as youth homes. You hit two birds with one stone, as it were. You get rid of the problem that many municipalities have with empty housing for the elderly, and we get young people somewhere to live. It's a really good cocktail, and on that basis, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152528	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152536	Thank you. After all, the draft law has already been very well examined by the previous rapporteurs. This is very short, with more small housing, an incentive structure and better use of the housing stock, such as the provision of elderly housing to students. Mrs Christina Egelund has already mentioned the stories we are hearing about young people living in caravans and tents etc. around the country, and this is a good opportunity to make use of the housing stock that is actually available when it suits. So the alternative can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152623	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, the Radical Left can also support this bill. This results in an agreement between KL and the government, and the aim, as has been stated, is to give municipalities an incentive to build more smaller homes. At the same time, the proposal provides for greater flexibility in relation to the availability of general housing for the elderly. We radically agree with the intention and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152648	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152700	SF wants an equal society with greater cohesion, and that is why we also want a general housing sector with a broad composition of small and large dwellings. It is important that municipalities play a key role in developing the general housing sector, as it is they who are best aware of the local housing needs. At the same time, we also believe that it is important that in the future it is better to ensure less and cheaper housing, so that all Danes, regardless of income, have the opportunity to acquire a decent accommodation. The SF therefore also supports the proposal to ensure that municipalities have a greater incentive to build smaller and cheaper housing, in which especially young people, smaller households, single and vulnerable citizens can settle. We have an interest in ensuring good housing conditions for all citizens regardless of income, and that is why we believe that more can be done to ensure that everyone has a home. We support the proposal to rent municipal-owned general housing for the elderly as general youth housing in special circumstances. This will mean that buildings which are not used by the elderly, instead, can gain new life as youth housing. This can also reduce the lack of youth housing, so that young people will not in future experience the frustrating situation that can arise when you cannot find a home to live in when you typically move to a larger city to take an education. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152829	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152839	Thank you very much. The bill here follows, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the economic agreement between the government and KL for 2019. In concrete terms, the proposal provides for a reduction in basic municipal capital to 10%. from 14 per cent. in 2019 and 2020 applicable to general housing and free-care homes. The reduction of the basic capital requirement until 2020 will allow municipalities and free-care providers to plan better until the end of 2020. In addition, a differentiation of basic municipal capital for general family housing is proposed so that greater incentives are given to build small dwellings. The aim of the differentiation is to promote the construction of smaller and cheaper general housing, and of course we can support this from the conservative side. Finally, it is proposed that municipalities should be given the opportunity to rent out old homes as youth housing in cases where they are difficult to rent. This should help to limit idleness and thus also solve some of the challenges faced by some municipalities. Of course, we can also support that from the conservative side. Overall, of course, we can support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023152957	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153009	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The bill implements the agreement reached by the government and KL in the context of the 2019 Economic Agreement in the housing sector. Municipalities play a key role in the development of the general housing sector. It is the municipalities that decide how many new general housing to build. KL and the government agree that more smaller and cheaper housing needs to be built. This is because in recent years we have seen both rising housing prices and housing sizes. This is both in the general housing sector and in the housing market in general. This has created an increased demand for small homes. It has become more difficult to find a foothold in the housing market for students and small families, for example. KL and the government therefore agree to extend the reduction of basic municipal capital to general elderly and youth housing, which is thus maintained at 10%. In addition, there is agreement to introduce a new model of municipal basic capital for general family housing, according to the idea, the smaller the housing, the cheaper it will be for municipalities to build. This gives the municipalities a clear incentive to build smaller and therefore also cheaper housing. Specifically, basic municipal capital is set at 8% respectively. for housing projects which are on average less than 90 m2, 10%. for projects with an average housing size ranging from 90 m2 to 105 m2 and 12% if the housing is on average 105 m2 and upwards. The intention is that in future the municipalities will build several small dwellings, which will thus have a lower rent, which will also be payable in the large cities. In addition, the draft law contains a proposal to make it possible to rent municipal-owned general old-age housing as general youth housing if they are unemployed. The proposal is a municipal request made within the so-called extended right of challenge for the municipalities. If municipalities have a surplus of available elderly housing, the proposal will allow housing to be rented as youth housing for a period of up to 10 years. It is a condition that there is no general demand for the elderly housing in question from the eligible population and that there is also a demand for youth housing. The proposal will therefore help to alleviate the problems of municipalities with unemployed elderly housing and thereby limit idle roads, but not at the expense of the elderly. If there is a demand for elderly housing from the eligible population, the housing must, of course, continue to be used for elderly citizens. The aim of the proposal is therefore basically to enable municipalities to make better use of the existing housing stock than they are today. I would like to thank you once again for the positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153314	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153328	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153346	Thank you. Today it is the case that a company can offer a share in the company to employees as a kind of remuneration scheme. This is largely exploited by new companies, where there is great uncertainty about the economy and where the employee also runs a high risk by replacing some of the salary with the purchase right and subscription right to shares. But at the same time it is also a model in which the employees then of course perform their tasks with the expectation of a gain from a possible increase in the share price. This can, of course, provide some start-up opportunities for new companies, which is why some employees' rights have also been incorporated into the legislation. It is the case today that you quit yourself, the employer can buy the shares you have in the company, but if you get fired, you can choose to keep them or sell them at some point when you think it's best and you get more out of it. Now the government is going to do this freely, which means that in the agreement one can actually decide that an employer can buy the shares at market value even if he also dismisses the employee. This means that there is no longer the employee's right, and that means that an employer can fire an employee by appointment and then buy the stock. The government will do this in order to promote the use of the scheme and to safeguard the rights of the individual employee, as they say in the bill. Unfortunately, we Social Democrats fear that it is the opposite that will happen. It is the case out there that only the employer knows the company's future and has the opportunity to understand properly what is happening in the future and has an insight into the figures, and therefore it is also the employer who has the only chance to see if something is going to happen soon that makes the stock rise in the company. It could be mergers, it could be the prospect of new products or the release of a positive annual report. This actually opens up problems with abuse, where the employer can dismiss his employee, buy the shares for the market value, and then it takes just 2, 3, 4 weeks, and then they become worth more, and then he can put the prize into his own pockets. The opposite is true: the employee has his freedom to make an agreement or not to do so, and he can do so as he or she wishes, because there is an agreement, but on the other hand one can easily see the difficulty of saying no to such an agreement for a new employee in a company, since it can be seen that he or she has little faith in the company's business or the employer's intentions, and that in itself can be very difficult for many new employees. We believe, as I said, that this would put the employee much worse and lead to more disputes and more trials, as Danske Lawyers then point out in the hearings, and therefore the Social Democrats are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153652	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153708	Thank you for that, President. I mean, this bill had to be before Mr. Cole. Leif Lahn Jensen went to the platform, be quite simple. The fact is that if you stop as an employee in a company, the stock options that you have in the company cannot be bought back by the company at below the market price, you cannot outbid that price, so the company has to give them the market price. It should simply ensure that employees could not get less than the market value of share options and shares. That's what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that if the employer speculates about dismissing the employee in order for the stock options to increase in value, the employer must be of the kind who speculates about dismissing the employee and then buy the shares back at a lower price because he knows that they increase quite significantly in 3-4 weeks, and the employer must look out and hire some new employees, perhaps even the same, if that is the case, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's thinking. I do not know whether it works that way, and I do not know how many employers will speculate about dismissing their employees in order to get stock options cheaper than what the market price indicates. Similarly, if the others buy shares and buy them at market value, it is that when we sell them again, it is at the market value that is. Nor can we know in advance what happens to a company in which we bought shares. But I think it is a sensible question, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is coming with us here. And I am also curious to hear what the Minister has to say about that question from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Leif Lahn Jensen, when the Minister comes to the floor, because I have no answer to that myself. I do not believe, then, that the employer will really speculate about it and say that he will dismiss his employee and that he will then buy the stock options and shares himself because they will increase at some point. I hope that this is not the kind of employers we have, but of course it cannot be ruled out. But I am curious to hear what the Minister is saying about the question that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has submitted to the Minister here. Otherwise, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153943	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023153948	Thank you. Sounds like sir. Bent Bøgsted is ready to investigate this further. I'm super happy for that, because it's clear and now Mr. Bent Bøgsted doesn't believe that anyone can come up with it, but there are probably some who can see an advantage in it that, of course, according to the proposal we are dealing with here, you can buy at market value, but if you know that in 3-4 weeks or months, the value will be much higher because something happens that no one other than the employer knows what is, you can just make some quick money. I just have to ask, because if it turns out that I am right, is the Danish People's Party so ready to go in and change this and say that we now have to get an employee's right into this, so we avoid this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154030-2	I think we should hear the Minister's answer to the question. Now, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen asked the question. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that before I decide how we feel about it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154046	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154049	I also think there is something else on which the rapporteur should put a question to the Minister, because this has been negotiated in the context of the growth initiative with the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party and the government. And if you look at the hearing from the academics, you can see that they say: "The bill... is, in the opinion of the academics, very far-reaching and seems more far-reaching than the political agreement immediately envisages. So what the academics are saying here is that what we are discussing here is much more far-reaching than the agreement that the Danish People's Party and Radicals have made with the government. I would suggest that Mr. Bent Bøgsted's asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154126	Well, if these are the same problems that they raise here with buy-backs of shares, then we have the opportunity to have it examined before the third reading. I do not therefore believe that companies will cheat the employees and say: I can make some money from this; I am dismissing all my employees. Then the companies are left without employees. I find it a little difficult to believe that this is the way companies think. But if Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen knows some of the companies, it's nice to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154206	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154209	Thank you. I do not wish to comment on the rapporteur's naivety in relation to what employers might do, but I would just like to say that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is right that, as the law is now drafted, it gives an employer the opportunity to speculate on exactly what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen points out. And I guess employers shouldn't have such an opportunity, no matter what expectations you have of how bad they can be. That's one thing. The second point is the very principle: this legislation opens the way for an agreement to derogate from a clear right which employees have today, namely that if they are fired, they will not lose their stock options. It is therefore a much more fundamental question as to whether an employee's right to an agreement should be undermined. Does the rapporteur really think that it is an equal negotiating situation with an employer on one side of the table who has the power to fire and hire, and then an employee on the other side of the table who does not have that power?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154314	Well, I think it might be a little difficult to sit around and wonder about firing an employee because there are some stock options. This also guarantees that you will always get the market price when you buy shares. In the past, stocks could be bought back at a lower price than the market price. You can't do that in the future. They must, of course, also be registered on the market. But whether you really are wondering about hiring an employee and dismissing the employee again, because there might be a stock increase, and then it is an advantage to buy back the stock options, so I am not talking about that at all. That is also why I am saying: let us hear what the Minister is saying about this, because then we can examine what it looks like in committee. I have no idea that the employer is going to say: Now all we have to do is fire our employees to get paid on stock options.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154421	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154422	Thank you. My point was that no matter what one thinks about employers' motives and how harsh they can behave, the law allows speculation because it states that an agreement between the employer and the employee may derogate from the law. This gives the employer an opportunity to exert pressure on the employees. That's my point. It also gives the employer the right of initiative in relation to firing the employee at a time when it may be favourable in relation to a later trend in the share price. So I do not really think the rapporteur is dealing with the principle of what the law really says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154500	Thank you! The rapporteur is now doing so, because the rapporteur is now being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154501	I honestly admit that I don't know that much about being an employee of stock options. I never was, and I don't think Finn Sørensen was either. How many stock options a single employee can have before the employer says it can be an advantage to dismiss the employee, I should not be unsaid. I don't know anything about that. I don't know about it. But the employee also has the opportunity to say no to receiving stock options and say: I don't want a job if it's with stock options. That is also possible. It's not like you're forced to say yes to a job with stock options.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154540	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154541	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur may be in doubt about this, and you can also hear the questioners that it is complicated. But I really think the question to the rapporteur can be put very simply: now that the rapporteur goes back to the pay chamber, when the rapporteur has heard the Minister's reply, will the rapporteur allow his decision to fall in favour of workers' rights or of employers' rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154610	Well, I started by saying that I will wait until I have received a written reply from the Minister to this question as to what is the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154621	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154623	I am totally in favour of this, but now that the rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is present, I am in favour of it. Bent Bøgsted, who will have to take a position at some point, must it be very easy to say now whether this will be of benefit to the workers, that is to say the employees, or will it be of benefit to the employers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154639	I think that a system is being found that can be said that no one should get caught. That is, in fact, what is meant by it. I do not wonder whether we should have some employers who can be taken into account by saying that it is an advantage for them to fire employees because they have some stock options. I find it difficult to assess whether there are employers who really are wondering about this. Well, then, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and, for that matter, Mr. Finn Sørensen shows up some employers and says: these employers are scamming about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154719	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154730	Thank you. Thank you to the previous rapporteurs for their examination and comments on the draft law. Let me say briefly: I think this is a sensible proposal. The proposal translates an element into the business and growth package that a majority across the Folketing agreed on last autumn. In the Left, we think that the employee stock scheme is a good idea. This allows companies to create share schemes for employees so that they can better attract labour, make flexible wage schemes, raise capital for the company. This is not just for the companies and employees, but for society as a whole. That is why the Left is also happy to adjust the scheme so that we can make it more attractive and less bureaucratic, and that is what we are doing with this bill. We are abolishing unnecessary regulation and simplifying the rules, and that means, among other things, that. freedom of the parties so that together they can agree on what to do with the employee's shares on the day the employees are no longer part of the company. I think it is common sense for the parties themselves to find a solution instead of being determined by an unnecessary line of legislation. In conclusion, it is important to make it clear that the Left sits on the side of the employees. The legislation is, and must be, formulated in favour of the employees, so that you do not experience unfair treatment when you sell back your share of the company as an employee. In those words, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154907	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023154911	It is good to hear that the Left is on the side of the employees, but then I have to ask the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen, whether you recognize the problem that when only employers can actually see what is happening in the future with a company it can be in relation to what I mentioned: fusion, new products, a good annual report and other problems with abuse. It may be that, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted doesn't think companies can do that. Now, with social dumping and everything else, you can see what companies can do in this country. But there is the possibility of abuse; there is the possibility with the agreement you are making now, or with what you have on hand, that companies can actually dismiss an employee, buy the stock, and then it goes a few weeks, and then it turns out that the employer knew that it is now increasing in value because something has happened that only he knew. This possibility actually exists with this new legislation. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155011	I find it hard to see that this bill has serious problems. This is a bill that is about trying to support and help tiny entrepreneurs who haven't earned a penny yet that they can make some agreements on a voluntary basis with a future employee. None of the parties, either the employee or the employer, can know how things are going in the future at that time. That is why we want to ensure that there is the necessary flexibility in the agreements that can be concluded. But they can also avoid being made because the employee has his free right to say: I do not want to conclude that agreement. This possibility exists, but it will not be in the interests of entrepreneurship in Denmark or the creation of more jobs. So I do not agree with the premise, and I do not believe that the company owners are as Social Democrats currently describe them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155108	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155110	I hope not, but let me ask: can the rapporteur confirm that this proposal, whether you think it is going to happen or not, actually opens up the possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155126	I have just outlined the situation, which is why we are here today. It is that an entrepreneur who hasn't earned a penny yet is looking for employees, perhaps around the world, to come here to help create a business. Many agreements can be concluded, but in order for them to be concluded, it is a matter of two parties having to agree. So I find it hard to see the big problem in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155202	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155204	Yes, or it is because the rapporteur does not want to see it. I mean, the core of this bill is that today, the employees' rights are clearly described in the law, that you don't lose your stock options if it's the company that's dismissing you. It's only if you quit yourself. It is a clear employee right, it is a protection for the employee. Now you want to make a bill saying that the clear right can be waived by an agreement between the employer and the individual employee. In other words, we can agree on something less than what the law says. That is what this is all about. Will the rapporteur not admit that it is the employer who is at the end of this situation? It is the employer who sits at the end of the table and can say: you know what, I can't use you if you don't want to deal with this. Or he can find another excuse to get rid of the employee. This may also happen in the employment situation, where the employee may be faced with the choice of disclaiming a right in order to get the job at all. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that it is not an equal negotiating position that is being dealt with here as an employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155317	I certainly believe that this is a negotiating position in which we have a small entrepreneur who has not earned a penny yet, and an employee who brings some knowledge. And, by the way, maybe it could turn into something huge. Then it is true that the draft law is that we can agree on something other than what is in the current legislation. This can bring greater joy to the employee concerned. And it is true that it can also be agreed in such a way that we do not get the same thing out of terminating the agreement as we can today. But it can go both ways. I don't see there's a big problem in this bill. There is a large element of freedom of agreement, and the agreements that have already been concluded do not suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155402	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155404	I do not understand why the rapporteur keeps talking about small entrepreneurship. It may then be to distract attention from the fact that this bill applies to all companies. After all, there are no exceptions that say that it is only for tiny recently started entrepreneurial companies that need to get started and that have no capital and that therefore have to pay the employee in the form of some stock options. Well, there is no such restriction. It is, after all, a general weapon; it is a general tool that is given to business owners. Would the rapporteur not just admit it so that we agree on what is the facts and what is the up and down of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155440	I'm not going to contradict that, sir. Finn Sørensen in. But the reason we're standing here today is because the Entrepreneurs' Panel has pointed out that this is a barrier to small entrepreneurs being able to make agreements with future employees that will enable us to create some growth in this country. And I understand that is extremely problematic and one does not believe that it is possible to make an agreement between the small entrepreneur and the employee concerned, who is in such a way that they can also break up and be equally good friends for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155523	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155524	Thank you. Now I have not been so much involved in this matter, so I am just asking about the legislation in force. Is there anything in the legislation in force to prevent employees from selling their employee shares to the employer whenever they want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155544	I do not think there is anything wrong with that in the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155545	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155548	Why on earth is it so necessary to make a law that simply confirms it and which gives employers rights when it is already the case that employees are free to sell their shares to the employer whenever they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155605	As I have mentioned sometimes, this is a proposal inspired by the discussion that has been held in the Entrepreneurs' Panel. There has been a barrier for small entrepreneurs when they had to reach an agreement on this. Are you even willing to make such an agreement, because is this company going to be anything? Then we suggest that an agreement can be reached with a greater degree of freedom, in order to push the development we all want to see, precisely that entrepreneurship in Denmark is becoming even more widespread and that there are more who want to go that way. I find it hard to see that there is a big problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155646	Thank you. The next one is sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155656	Thank you. Recognizes Mr. Hans Andersen not that there is an asymmetrical relationship between an employer and an employee of any company, simply because the employer has the right to direct and distribute the work and also the clear right to employ and dismiss?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155715	I certainly do not disagree with the fact that the employer has the right to dismiss and also the right to direct and distribute the work. But the reason why we are standing here today is because we have some small entrepreneurs and I apologize and apologize for the fact that we haven't earned a penny yet, which we want to help get started. And here is a bill that can give them some more flexibility in the agreements they make with their future employees. Not a penny has yet been earned, so I find it hard to understand the outrage that we are now proposing that something new can be agreed between the entrepreneur and the future employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155755	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155757	If that is the case, and if that is what is intended, why do the government parties and the minister not do their homework and look at the conditions of the small entrepreneurs instead of looking at a general right to employers in large and small enterprises which, in certain situations, have a quite inappropriate effect, precisely because the employer has the overall right to employ and dismiss and the right to direct and distribute the work and thus also has the primary right to manage the company? If it's something else you want, why do you mix the two things together?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155836	The bottom line here is that agreements already concluded today will continue under the conditions and new agreements will have to be concluded voluntarily between the employer and the employee. So I find it difficult to see the problem of new agreements being concluded, hopefully with the adoption of this bill, which can thus include some more flexibility and thus support, among other things. small entrepreneurs and their way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155908	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any further questions put to this rapporteur, so the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023155922	Thank you, and thank my colleagues in the opposition, who have helped to clarify what this bill is really about. Thanks also to Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, who has made it clear that there is nothing in the applicable law that prevents an employer from entering into an agreement with an employee that the employer buys his shares, shares in the company or options in the same way. This bill is really about weakening the employee's negotiating position in that situation. This is a clear deterioration for employees who enter into an agreement on share options or shares as part of their employment relationship. Because today they are protected by the fact that they cannot lose the demand for these options unless they resign themselves. Now the government is proposing that it should be possible for the employer to enter into an agreement with the employee that they may also lose the options, the parties, even if it is the company that terminates the employee. It is then presented as a step forward for freedom of agreement. It's a rather creative marketing of this product that we're dealing with today. That's what I'm gonna say. This is a totally misleading argument, because it is a question of opening up the door to the possibility of the legal protection of employees being reduced by means of an agreement. After all, there are no equal partners in the situation that negotiates from an equal position of strength. The employer has a long way to go. He's the one who decides whether or not to hire guys. The proposal made by the government here gives the employer a strong tool to push the employee into a wage reduction, now with a promise of stock options from which the employer can then leave later. It is totally untenable which the trade union movement and the leaders, and fortunately also my colleague in the Social Democratic Party, have seen through and which is therefore rejected. In addition, there are a number of legal uncertainties, which Danske Lawyers in particular have pointed out, and as the Minister will not change the bill after it, I think, very thorough criticism coming from Danish lawyers, we must assume that what you are doing is entirely conscious. I would just like to point out here that confusions such as those we have in the past have been able to resolve. the question of what is really meant by the market value of the options, the shares, the market value of the options, will also be to the benefit of the employer in a negotiation situation. If the employee wants the job, he may feel pressured to accept the employer's interpretation of the legal uncertainties. It is quite telling that only employers are in favour of this proposal in the consultation answers we have received and the Enhedslisten is voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160203	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no entry for short remarks. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160212	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of a high degree of freedom of agreement; we think that the framework for what workers and employers can agree should be very clear. Basically, it is quite unproblematic for us to be able to agree to buy back shares at market prices when firing them. In my view, it is difficult to understand why this should weaken the negotiating position of employees in general, because if employers think that the present system is expensive or difficult to administer in relation to just fired employees, then they will certainly have to give something else in the context of a negotiation. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. So the next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160307	In the alternative, we share the rest of the opposition's position on this issue. I myself took part in the preliminary negotiations on this package, and we tried to bite ourselves and register, but there were too many points that we could not be involved in. The package was generally for inequality-building, we think, although there were many good initiatives for entrepreneurs. It was also one of the places we asked about. Is this really good? Is it good for the people who are going to work in small businesses who need a boost? We find that hard to see. We also think that this is a deterioration in employees' conditions. I do not want to make it quite clear that we are opposed to the proposal. It may be that something is happening in committee. I am not the rapporteur on the proposal myself, that is my colleague Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, but I'm certainly going to say that we're very skeptical and that it takes a lot to move forward. We have mentioned earlier in the negotiations that were then that if you had to do something, it should be because you lost these warrants or benefits you could now have if you had violated something in the company, so not just a strategic consideration from the company about saying goodbye to an employee. I do not know whether that is enough for our rapporteur in this area, but perhaps a dialogue on what it is necessary to do, in such a case where you are dismissed and then lose the court. But as a starting point, we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160420	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments either. The next is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160435	Thank you. The political agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives concluded between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left provides for a freedom of agreement to enter into agreements with the West. They have a particular interest in such a freedom to make these agreements. This allows for a labour market that is more similar to an international labour market. It is worth noting that the bill includes several times that no agreement can be reached to the disadvantage of the employee. Of course, the purpose of this is for these small start-up companies to pay with shares. This is something which, of course, is a chance that the individual employee takes to go in and get a share of his salary in a potential future profit if this enterprise succeeds. It is clear that this differs from the rest of the labour market, but there is no doubt that it is fine in addition to what you see is a need for many of these start-ups, namely that you can go in and get employees who are ready to work for the chance that things are going well. The Radical Left, of course, supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160550	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there is one brief comment. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160555	But the fact that we must not do anything that is unfavorable for employees and employees is something I agree with. But then I have to ask, and this is, of course, a little the same question as the rapporteur has listened to: in the case that, when you buy, the market value is not so high, and if it turns out that it is going to be higher later, one month later, and it also turns out that it is actually something that the employer could have known, is it to the disadvantage or benefit of employees? I think it is quite important to know how Radicals view that part. Because what is the problem here is that employers have an opportunity and an advantage in being able to look a little forward while employees do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160641	In other words, I would regard it as unethical if an employer aimed at a future increase in value were to lay off and then buy back at a market value lower than that which he envisages in the future. Of course, I would regard that as villainy. But I must also say, on the other hand, that if you have an entrepreneurial business and you intend to pay with share options, it is still your own company's share capital, which I think should be guaranteed the right to buy back from employees you have no longer employed in the company. So there must also be a reasonable protection requirement in relation to the people who own these start-up companies, i.e. they must actually be able to dispose of their own share capital, even when they may dispose of one of the company's employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160729	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160732	What you just have to remember is that it is not only the company that has taken a risk here. In fact, it is also the employee, because the employee has gone down in wages and has over time received less pay because he has believed in the company; when the company becomes more valuable, the employee expects to be able to put the gain in his pocket. Now I hear the rapporteur say that, of course, it should not be unethical and that it is villainy if that happens, but can the rapporteur agree with me that this draft law actually allows us to be unethical and has an opportunity to be villainy that we did not have in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160804	That people can come up with villains is well known and, of course, something that lies here. It is not a traditional employer-payer relationship that lies in a company where people are employed with a share in the company in the belief that if the company goes well, they get part of the total profit. That's another way to look at remuneration. So I see that here there are some opportunities for employees and some risks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160850	I think maybe in this time we should drop all naïve thoughts about what employers can do when it comes to speculating on fast money. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen then thinks that they can hardly be familiar; it is so almost unethical and villainy. Yeah, but I guess that's what's happening on a daily basis at the moment. This bill points to the balance between ordinary employees and employers in favour of the strong employer's party. I see the bill as a party contribution in favour of employers and a party contribution in order to make speculation easier. It is no wonder that this draft law in the consultation answers is largely supported by companies while employees are opposed. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160942	Thank you. There were no brief comments here either. The last speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023160951	As has been said earlier, this bill is, after all, the implementation of the political agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives concluded between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. The purpose of the political agreement was to promote these arrangements for employees to buy or subscribe shares or shares at a later stage. With the bill that is here, we make it possible and it is important to make it clear all the time that we can agree on an option scheme that purchase and subscription rights will lapse when a dismissed employee resigns. It is important to state that it is an agreement between the employee and the employer that the right to buy shares which have not been used before the end of the employment relationship will not be retained. At the same time as this is introduced, it is now possible to agree on a buy-back of shares at market prices at the time of resignation. We've heard more questions about this. Then an employer will be unethical and so on.? Actually, I don't think so. I believe that the vast majority of employers and employees have a very, very good relationship. That is why we have to say that the two amendments that are now here extend the freedom of agreement in option arrangements so that we can hopefully have even greater use of the arrangements than we have had so far. Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161125	Thank you for that and thank you for the many comments that have been made here during the examination of the draft law. It has to be said that the rapporteurs who have been on the platform have in many ways well elucidated the draft law that is being discussed here today, namely the draft law amending the Share Option Act, which is, of course, the implementation of the political agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives of 12 November 2017. The debate today also shows which parties made that agreement, because it was an agreement reached between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. This does not, of course, mean that no one else can support the proposal. However, it cannot come as a surprise that some people may think that this is a wrong proposal. Under the political agreement, it must be possible to provide for an option system for buying and drawing rights to lapse when a redundant employee resigns. It will therefore be possible to agree that a right to, for example, a right to vote in local elections. the purchase of shares which have not been used is not retained after the termination of the employment relationship. In addition, it must be possible to agree on the withdrawal of shares at market price upon resignation. Basically, it is a question of extending the freedom of agreement in the option arrangements, which, I hope, can also help to increase the use of this kind of arrangement more fully, as has been proposed by the entrepreneurship panel. I must also say that, for me, it is crucial that we provide better opportunities for our entrepreneurs to develop their businesses, and I do not have the fears that some people have suggested today that companies should speculate on this scheme. What is also important to stress at the end is that this should be done by means of an agreement, just as the Conservative rapporteur quite rightly said in his speech and, for that matter, also the rapporteur of the Left. It is, of course, an agreement that must be concluded between the employee and the employer if you want to take advantage of what this bill allows.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161327	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161332	It is always the sort of thing that can be agreed, and it is also very good. But I also think the minister can imagine that there is a completely new employee in a company, and then the boss says, "Look, we're making a deal so you can get some shares instead of pay." You want him to say, boss, I don't want to, because I don't believe in your company, and I don't believe in you either. Of course he doesn't. He's making a deal. That is the problem. This deal is gonna be hard for some people to say no to. But maybe somebody's gonna do it. Now, of course, I have also read the answers to the hearings. Does the Minister accept that there are in fact many of the consultation answers that say that they are concerned that there are many employees who will now say no to it, and that is why it is going to go in exactly the opposite direction to what the government wants, namely that not so many will use it in the future, precisely because the employees are concerned that they will lose their rights in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161425	I recognise that there are consultation responses that are critical of the draft law, just as I also hope that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen will acknowledge that there are also positive statements in relation to what this bill will mean. However, we should not hide the fact that there are some in the hearings that are given that are critical. You just have to read the note that has been made and has also been sent to the Danish Parliament to see that there are people who are critical of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161452	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161454	So that is to say, the Minister is not at all concerned with that matter. It's fine. Then there is also a hearing answer, and there I think that the Danish People's Party and Radicals should listen a little now, because it should be interesting for those who have entered into the agreement with the government: According to the academics' view, the proposal goes much further than the political agreement immediately envisages. Are the academies right that it goes beyond what was actually agreed in government offices?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161528	Now, I think it's fresh from Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen to say that I am not at all related to the answers to the hearings. Well, I just acknowledged that and it was an open concession to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has a critical hearing response, and that is what I was asked about. So, yes, it's an open door that's run in. It is also reproduced in the consultation note which has been sent to the Danish Parliament and where the critical consultation responses have also been commented on. But this is, after all, a political disagreement about how to draw up the law, and it is now the case that in politics we cannot agree on everything. In relation to the academics, I would like to say that they were not, I know, involved in the negotiations that were taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161602	The next brief remark is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161606	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister about the discussion that has taken place in this Chamber between the rapporteurs and me. It has, of course, been about whether employees, workers, are disadvantaged than they are today, or whether things are as they usually are. That sounds to me with the answers given so far, as if there were very great doubts among the rapporteurs of the government parties and the parties to the agreement as to whether the workers still have the same rights with this bill as they have in the past. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161642	I can say that I have also been in the Chamber during this debate, and perhaps I have not fully heard the same concern. I have heard that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party would like some things to be clarified in a written note, namely on the scope of this legislation. I think that is sensible enough. But what this is all about is basically giving different conditions to making an agreement between the employee and the employer. There is a political disagreement as to whether this is a good idea or a bad one. You can boil it down to that. I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161715	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161719	So I have no doubt for a moment about what the Minister thinks, otherwise the proposal would probably never have been put forward. But what is crucial to me in this situation is whether the Minister recognises that workers today have rights and that they might be reduced by this legislation. Is this something that the Minister will be ready to take a look at during the legislative process?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161740-2	I am always ready to discuss with the Folketing when it comes to legal proceedings, because anything else would be stupid. After all, I've learned that. I don't share that concern. It is basically a concern about the fact that companies generally have bad motives, which was most clearly expressed by Mr. Karsten Hønge of the SF, as I think the verbatim word was. I do not think that can be concluded. That's not it, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen said. However, it is clear that what is the question, and which I think also deserves a discussion, is that we must ensure that no one could get into the situation, that they might, if I may say so, be fired in order that some others might potentially take a gain. I believe that this issue can be dealt with within the existing legislation, because that means that you are in and manipulating a course that you are aware of will increase. That's what it was, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen in the first place asked about this debate. There we have to look at how and how we can either clarify the rules of protection or make them clearer. I think that is quite obvious to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161845	The next short remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161848	Thank you. Did I hear in the last speech by the Minister an indirect admission that, as the law is formulated today, it allows the employer to speculate exactly in the development of the share price and that it can influence when he dismisses the employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161911	No, you didn't hear the Minister say that. What you heard, sir. Finn Sørensen, was an indication that I would like to make sure that those members of the Employment Committee who might be concerned about whether this could happen. And that is exactly what I think we should use the committee procedure for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161931	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023161934	Yes, but if it is clear from the law that the company cannot speculate in the way it has been discussed here today, then there is no need to reassure anyone, because then we would not have been worried about it. Then we would have said: well, it is quite clear that we then do not have that argument against that legislation. So I would like the Minister to consider whether it is true that, as the law has been formulated today, the employer, through the agreement he has pressed or, more or less, voluntarily prompted the employee to conclude, has an opportunity to speculate on the development of the stock price for the stock options or shares in question. Is it true that this is the law now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162023	Well, that was a very long question. I think we can respond relatively briefly to that. Well, no one's being pressured to make this deal. It is a voluntary agreement that is being reached. And that is what we are giving the opportunity to do. So in relation to that, as Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has asked, and for that matter Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, on the other hand, that if someone were to dismiss an employee in order to score a share gain, what is so valid law, I would say that I think it is good to have it clarified in further form, if I may say so. I don't think any employer is going to abuse this scheme. The truth is that there are very, very many employers who today refrain from using share options because the rules are as they are today. That's exactly why we're changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162109	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162127	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162156	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we are very pleased that the legislative proposal that we are going to be considering now has found a good solution to a major problem, and I was also saying that there is a growing problem. In fact, every year there are more and more elderly citizens in Denmark, and some of them need care. The aid comes either from the municipality or from one of the private companies which, since the beginning of the 00s, has had the opportunity to bid on the assignment. What is real is that the municipality can never go bankrupt and that the municipality has a delivery guarantee. But there are some, indeed some, of the private companies that have gone bankrupt for one reason or another. The service ends from one hour to the next, and out in the small homes are or are older fellow citizens who still need help. The municipality must deliver, and they must be ready from hour to hour to do so. At the same time, there are staff who have previously worked for the bankrupt private supplier, who in the vast majority of cases are ready to take over, and it is in fact here that the bill that we are dealing with comes in. For if the employee takes the lead in following the heart and does the right thing, namely to start a job with the municipality immediately, it may be year and day before a business transfer case is settled and they can get their debts: pay, holiday money and pension. Last year we had a series of consultations with the Minister for Employment and the Minister for the Interior, and it has now ended up in a proposal to help the staff mentioned above, by giving them the opportunity to transfer their claims to the Employees' Guarantee Fund and then to pay their debts immediately. The employees' guarantee fund will then have to wait for the decision as to whether or not it is a transfer of undertakings. The law applies, of course, to all employees employed in private companies providing services to public entities, and not only to staff in the care of the elderly. For the sake of good order, I must say that we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162416	There is no entry for short remarks. So we shall continue in the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to Mr Beyer de Ryke to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162430	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, of course, a good proposal, because it comes in the light of all the problems that have arisen where we have been able to see home help companies, home service companies, went bankrupt and where it meant that the elderly could not get the care and help that they needed. So where do you stand when a company like that goes bankrupt? Yes, the employees are in a bit of a mess, because it is an effort that must continue and the municipalities must take over. They are responsible, and they have to take over the effort to give the elderly the care they need, and typically they can also use the employees who are. Then it is a question of whether it is a transfer of undertakings or whether it is actually just something that the municipalities should have had a great deal of talk about, but with this it means that employees can submit the claim to the Employees' Guarantee Fund. Then employees are assured that they will get their money and then they will have to fight over whether it is a transfer of business or not a transfer of business. But it shouldn't hurt employees, and this proposal makes sure that it doesn't, just so they'll always get their money. Then it's a fight in court whether it's a business transfer or not a business transfer. In this case, the employees are not involved. It may well be that they continue at the municipality with the effort and with the same older ones that they have, or who will now have to make the effort. All in all, however, I think it is a very good proposal that solves the problems that arose when many home-aid services companies went bankrupt. Both the elderly and the employees were affected, and this proposal unleashes them. This certainly ensures that employees will be able to get their money and that the municipalities can continue their efforts. Then the fight about whether it is a transfer or not must stand in court. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162644	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162651	Thank you for that and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the content of the proposal. With the agreement on the prevention of bankruptcy, a broad majority in the Folketing ensured that fewer elderly people in future will be affected by bankruptcy in home care. As part of the agreement, we also agreed to secure employees in the event of bankruptcy, and that is the part we address with this bill. For we have seen several cases in which bankrupt care providers are taken over by the municipalities, after which the municipalities will not pay out any debts that employees may have in the company. Employees are caught in a legal dispute and are at risk of being without pay, and we cannot, of course, accept that. This bill guarantees employees' rights. In cases where there is a dispute over the liability of employees, the financial burden will in future be placed on the Employees' Guarantee Fund. When the verdict is passed, the conditions are weighed and the responsibility is placed, so that it can be clearly stated who should pay, it lies with the municipalities, and when it lies with the municipalities, the Employees' Guarantee Fund gets the money reimbursed. Employees should not be taken hostage in a legal dispute. We will ensure this with this bill, which I am glad we can broadly stand together here across the parties of the Folketing. The Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162828	You're welcome. There were no brief remarks, so the next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023162842	Thank you. It is of course no harm that we sometimes agree on things in here. Enhedslisten also supports this bill. This is an excellent follow-up to the agreement we helped to conclude together with other parties here in the Folketing, all other parties, in October 2017. We believe that it will provide greater security for employees to obtain their claims in situations where there is doubt as to whether there has been a transfer of business from a bankrupt private supplier to the public sector and where the employees' claims must either be covered by the Employees' Guarantee Fund or by the public purchaser or guarantor. This is a clear step forward and there is reason to congratulate the trade unions who have fought for this in the light of the many unfortunate examples of their members, for example. The bankruptcies of BIOS in the Region of South and the nursing company Kærkommen in North Jutland. However, the Enhedslisten does not consider the comments to be complete. Here you have to study ATP's hearing response. ATP specifies in detail how they perceive the law. In his reply to the hearing, the Minister agreed with ATP's interpretation of the text. However, it can be seen here that there are a number of formal and legal requirements which must be met before the employees' guarantee fund can cover the employees' demands, even if the situation immediately corresponds to the text of the law. I think it is important if the conditions outlined by the ATP are right, that it is quite clear, both to the employees and to the public, so that no excessive expectations arise as to what problems this bill can solve. In any case, this should have been much more detailed in the comments. As I see it, some of ATP's interpretations are somewhat problematic. It seems to limit the scope of the law, at least as I read the text. But we must have followed up this in the work of the committee. The Enhedslisten agrees with the LO and FTF and others, who would like the proposal to be extended to cover cases where the bankrupt company or the company's estate claims that there has been a transfer of business to another private company. I think it is difficult for employees to understand why there should not be the same security in cases where there is in relation to the problem we are now solving here. We look forward to the Minister coming up with a legislative proposal on this, and we are very happy to take part in that work. However, the Enhedslisten will propose that, in the same context, we tighten up the legislation on the transfer of businesses. The many legal proceedings based on this law bear witness to the fact that it is hollow as a sieve. We must have stopped or, at least, limited companies' attempts to circumvent the law by questioning whether there is now also a transfer of businesses, with the consequence that employees have to wait a very long time to meet their demands. Such preparation of the law on the transfer of undertakings will also save employees many problems, and this will save the Employees' Guarantee Fund a lot of work. I would also like to comment on the consultation response from the National Association of Municipalities. KL writes that the public supply obligation, e.g. the obligation to provide care for the elderly is incompatible with the use of private operators. They are absolutely right about this in KL, because unlike a municipal supplier, the private supplier can turn the key from one day to the next.That is what has happened in countless cases and then the citizens and the employees and the municipality have their hair in the mailbox. This is one of the reasons why private actors in the care of the elderly and in other welfare areas should not be used. This is also why Enhedslisten will have removed the privatisation obligation laid down in the system of free choice in the care of the elderly and in other areas, forcing municipalities to involve private suppliers. If we lift the privatisation obligation, I have no doubt that far fewer municipalities will use private suppliers. This will lead to fewer bankruptcies, and it will be a good thing for the citizens, for the employees, for the municipalities and for the Employees' Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163303	Thank you for that, President. We, like the previous rapporteurs, think that this is a sensible proposal which, of course, helps to ensure that employees have a better legal position in the event of bankruptcy. And when it comes to public takeovers and there is thus a guarantee that any bill can be recovered, we also think that the employee should be guaranteed as soon as possible. There is no reason why the employee should wait for some legal technical dispute to be settled when it can be said with certainty that one or the other cashier has to pay the missing salary. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163348	Thank you. It's gonna be quick. The next rapporteur is from the alternative. Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163355	It's going fast when the Folketing agrees completely, as it is in this case, and in the alternative we also support this arrangement. It ensures the employee in an otherwise strange situation where one can actually be punished for doing the right thing, so that one can quickly get hold of the glove again, just under municipal conditions. So we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163414	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163422	Thank you. Like the previous speakers and with the same reasons, the Radical Left also supports this bill, which we believe puts employees in bankrupt companies better than they have been put forward today. So, yes, we also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163435	Thank you for short speeches. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163446	It is actually high time that we put a safety net on the hands of employees who continue in the public sector after bankruptcy in a private company. Whether it ends up with a transfer under the law on the transfer of undertakings or not, employees must, of course, be guaranteed the money for quick payout, and the elderly, for example, must continue to be able to receive the care they are used to, and preferably by the same employees at the municipality. The bill is good for all parties, and the SF can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163520	Thank you. The last rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163527	Thank you. Yes, that is correct, last rapporteur. As rapporteur for Parliament's smallest party, it is nice that you can hear all the others before you have to say anything yourself. But again, as has been said, there is a great deal of agreement on this bill, and it is also a very good legislative proposal. It is a draft law that helps employees who have inadvertently caught up between a private company which has gone bankrupt and a public acquirer. So far, a number of employees have had to wait for their wages, for example. a private company in the area of home help, which we have talked about, has gone bankrupt and there has therefore been doubt as to who will ultimately have to pay because it may be a transfer of business to a public acquirer. This amendment to the LG Act now allows employees to obtain their claims more quickly, and that is very, very good. I would say, then, that the bill does not solve all the challenges of bankruptcy and possible business transfers, but it is of great benefit to the employees who would otherwise be asking: where should I get my salary? Where can I get money from now on when the company has gone bankrupt? They can go to the Employees' Guarantee Fund and get their money immediately. Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163637	Thank you. And then we have reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163649	Thank you for that and thank you for the many positive comments that have been made on the legislative proposal here. The bill amending the Law on the Employees' Guarantee Fund stems from the political agreement on the prevention of bankruptcies, which, as you know, was concluded between the parties of the Danish Parliament on 5 October 2017, i.e. about a year ago. I can fully confirm, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen's observations that it also formed the basis for many political discussions here in the Danish Parliament, and I myself have also participated in consultations on this issue. According to the political agreement, there was to be a look at the LG law. It should be noted that the possibility for LG to lay the foundations for employees' claims in the event of bankruptcy in cases where there are doubts as to who will ultimately pay. The amendment to the LG Act, which is being proposed with the bill, allows employees to receive their claims quickly and fundamentally, I think, a very, very important signal that is being sent to employees. These are situations where LG has a very high level of security to be able to cover their drafts if it is not LG that ultimately has to pay. These are situations where there may be a transfer of undertakings to a public acquirer or where there is a public guarantee. The draft law certainly does not solve all the challenges of bankruptcy and a possible transfer of businesses, but it will help a number of employees who have had to wait a long time for their debts or their wages. It is not only in the case of bankruptcies in the area of home help but also in other areas that the draft law could have a positive effect. I am also looking forward to the committee procedure we are going to have in the Ministry of Employment, including that, it might be said, discussion, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163838	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163856	The debate is open, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023163916	Thank you. It is crucial for the flexibility of the Danish labour market that we have an unemployment benefit system that can pick up when people are affected by unemployment. The most recent agreement concluded in 2015 has now been fully phased in here per year. 1 October, and this has given rise to a few adjustments which we in the Socialist Group fully support. It is also clear from the consultation answers that there is support from the cashiers, and they have been active in this process for a very long time. The proposals that we have to deal with here specifically are about the permanentisation of the transitional rules that have been in place, compared to the fact that, despite the fact that we now have a monthly benefit system, only the weeks in which you are employed are counted, so that you receive unemployment benefit for the rest of the month; adjustment in the case of errors in reporting if two times are reported in the same month; that hours or earnings in the case of self-employment for young people under 25 years also count when the income is to be calculated; and, last but not least, that the income control and coordination of information which is to take place, for example. when you are on early retirement, where you have to look both at early retirement cards and in the income register for early retirement recipients. In future, you will only have to do so every three months instead of, as it is today, every month. So all in all, it is a series of proposals which are common sense and which the Social Democrats support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164056	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164114	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, of course, like mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has said, a good arrangement, a good solution to the problems that were involved in the transitional regime, and it was also a great wish from the cashiers that it should be permanentized. I could, of course, begin to list the same thing Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen just said. I shall not do so, because I agree with what has been said by Mr Tugendhat all the way. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, and therefore I would just like to say that in the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that a solution has been found to the problems that were if you did not work for a whole month and say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill that we are also part of together with the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164208	Thank you for that, and the next speaker is the rapporteur from the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen. He doesn't have to run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164220	Thank you. For the Left, it is incredibly important that we have a flexible benefit system that keeps a safe hand in the labour market, and therefore the Left has helped to strengthen the benefit system in several stages, so security and security are also key words in the Danish labour market model in the future. We do, for example. together with the other contractual parties behind the unemployment benefit reform secured by an agreement on a safer daily allowance system in 2015, we have secured this with agreement on excess hours and additional daily allowance also in 2015, and we have secured this with agreement on a new unemployment benefit system for the future labour market in 2017. There are three agreements which together and separately extend a safety net to the Danish wage and benefit recipients as well as to the future. With regard to the implementation of the unemployment benefit reform, it has become apparent that minor adjustments are needed to parts of the reform, and on those adjustments I can say very briefly that the Left naturally supports them, because it is common sense that we sharpen the edges of the unemployment benefit reform where we see need for it. It is true that we are making the transitional arrangements for the supplementary allowance permanent that is common sense. It is true that the clash between the reporting periods and the income register does not, of course, have to make allowance for people who have worked a sufficient number of hours, and that is what we are changing that is common sense. And it goes without saying that we must of course save money for trouble when the monthly checks on payment of advances in individual cases result in unnecessary manual processing. That's why we're adapting the rules now. That's common sense. With this bill, we will sharpen the corners of the unemployment benefit reform and we will continue to ensure security and flexibility for individual benefit recipients, and therefore, of course, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164424	You're welcome. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164440	Thank you. Enhedslisten also supports the bill. It is a good thing that some of the absurdities and inappropriateities of the new benefit system are now being corrected. It is good that a definitive solution has been found to the question of supplementary daily allowance, which, in the event of the expiry of their entitlement to supplementary daily allowance, the members do not subsequently lose their daily allowance when they have paid hours. It is also good that, in some situations, the cashiers and members can escape control and post-regulation, and it is time that the government finally realised that it is quite unacceptable and unreasonable that a member cannot obtain the right to benefit even if he or she has earned sufficient income and working hours simply because the employer has reported the salary for a month other than the month to which it relates, for example. by reporting two months' pay in the same month. We are pleased that this is now being corrected. Here, too, there is reason to congratulate the trade unions who have pressed for these obvious shortcomings to be corrected in the recent cash benefits settlements. It also shows that it is useful to fight and that you should not take a 'no' for a 'no', such as for example. That, for technical reasons, it is not possible to correct an error, as we were told, both in relation to the employer's calculation of pay hours and with the unfair set-off for people who lose the right to supplementary benefit. Having said that, much remains to be done before the new benefit system becomes a good and secure benefit system. In addition to the excessively short period of unemployment benefit and the excessively stringent requirements for the recovery of benefit rights, there is still the fundamental problem that the system is only suited to staff employed on a monthly basis, and that adaptation to digitalisation, income formation and monthlyisation has priority rights, although in many cases this leads to unfair and unfair results, especially for the hourly wage earners. For example: The present rules on the calculation of the daily allowance may, of course, result in a very low rate of daily allowance being calculated by an unemployed person where, under previous rules, they would receive a much higher rate. At least the safety net is not there at all. The reason for this is that, unlike in the past, months when a member has both working hours and has received unemployment benefit must now be included in the calculation, regardless of how small the salary income of the month in question is. This consequence of the calculation rules was warned of both by Danske A-kasses and Enhedslisten, so we hope that one can also start listening to that part. Yes, there is still plenty of room for improvements to the benefit system, but as history shows: the errors will only be corrected if trade unions and cashiers press and remember that you should not take a no for a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164725	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164733	Thank you. The proposal here contains a number of amendments which are mainly of a technical nature. The main political content is to make it permanent that employment and unemployment benefit are calculated in weeks instead of months. This makes the system a little more flexible and ensures that a whole month's supplementary allowance is not taken into account because of a small amount of employment. And that has obviously not been appropriate. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164808	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164814	It's a quick round I'm filling in on today. In the alternative, we also support the proposal and the recommendation I have received from my fellow rapporteur, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, is to say that the unemployment benefit reform that was created support for in the Folketing back in 2015 we were generally quite opposed. And the bill that we have here is actually just correcting some inappropriate things that were in it. So whether it's technical stuff or just generally inappropriate is just as good for us. We say yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164845	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164852	Thank you. Radical Left can support L 12 as it is here. These are sensible adjustments. The Radical Left is not part of the 2017 agreement, of which this is an act, and this is originally due to the financing of the 2017 agreement. But we support the minor adjustments that lie here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164913	Thank you. I can see that things are moving fast. And I'm afraid I don't see Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge in the Chamber, so I go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Erik Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023164926	Thank you. Well, then I'll get a little extra time. And that means that I can, of course, deal with the draft law's many proposals for changes of a technical nature, but I shall now refrain from doing so. The main aim of this proposal is to make the current transitional arrangements for supplementary allowances permanent and more flexible. The scheme has so far ensured that people who have exhausted the entitlement to supplementary benefit can now receive unemployment benefit for months during which they have been in employment. This means that you do not lose a whole month's allowance simply because you have a single day's work. This means that the benefit system supports all forms of work, including short-term employment, which is needed at a time of high demand for labour. Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165013	Thank you. And in respect of the fact that things are going extremely fast in here and that it can be difficult to judge the time for a little errand, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165028	Well then, I shall help to maintain speed by saying that SF thinks it is a good bill and can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165036	Thank you, and we have reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165046	Thank you. Here, too, there is reason to sign for the broad consensus in the Folketing on this bill that we are discussing here today. It is true that some of the changes are of a more technical nature. However, I do not think it should remove the focus from the fact that the draft law is primarily intended to make the current transitional regime for students on daily allowances permanent and also as soon as possible, as we have discussed it on a regular basis here in the Danish Parliament. The scheme has so far ensured that people who have exhausted the entitlement to supplementary unemployment benefit can receive cash benefits for months during which they are in employment. In other words, the scheme means that you will not lose a whole month's allowance if you work just one day. The circle behind the benefit agreement is agreed that we must make the transitional arrangements permanent. This should be seen in the light of the fact that with the new unemployment benefit system we have made it more attractive to take all types of jobs. At a time of high demand for labour, when the Danish labour market is generally doing very well, it is crucial that our unemployment benefit system supports all kinds of work, including short-term employment. The draft law also contains a number of minor adjustments and adjustments. They are primarily about correcting the inappropriateness of the coffers, among other things. has pointed out in the process of implementing the new benefit rules. The government and the parties to the agreement agree that it must be resolved, and we are now doing so with the proposal here. We also agree that the draft law should have retroactive effect from 1 October 2018, when the transitional regime expires. No matter how quickly we deal with the bill, there will be an interim period which must not have adverse consequences for people who have exhausted the right to supplementary benefits. At the same time, this means that some people will subsequently have their daily allowances adjusted to ensure precisely what we have promised people. I note the broad consensus and look forward to a good committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165238	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165256	The debate is open, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165320	Thank you, President. With this proposal, the government will make it more difficult for foreigners to participate in the benefit system and will require a stay in the country for 7 out of 8 years in order to earn unemployment benefit. We in the Social Democratic Party are, in fact, very much in agreement with the part that we must safeguard our daily allowances and safeguard our welfare system, which is why we can, in a sense, follow that concept of earning obligation. There are just some issues in this proposal that we are somewhat more concerned about, and that we will just be using the consideration of this proposal to look at and propose modified. The worst thing for us is that this will affect ordinary Danes who go abroad to work, either to improve their skills or simply to find an exciting job • people who strengthen Denmark's relationship with other countries, but who still feel like Danes and will therefore still maintain their links with Denmark with the benefits it now has, such as a secure benefit system. It can also easily be ordinary craftsmen, and I think that all of us who have moved in the professional circles know, or others who just want to try to be out for a few years and work with other things in another part of the world. With this proposal, you will not be able to receive any more cash benefits, at least not if they are gone over a year. Why the Danish People's Party has agreed to this, I do not understand, as many Danes are just put in a very difficult situation, but I think we will know that when the Danish People's Party comes to the platform. The Minister for Employment believes that it is 1,750 Danes who are affected by the proposal, but in the hearing answer it appears that Danske A-kasses believe that the figure is much higher, so it may be that there is some uncertainty about the scope. But no matter what, there are already many Danes who are worried and who expected that they were insured when they returned home. Then here I will give a helping hand to the Danish People's Party and the government, which I always try to do, because that is the way we are in the Social Democratic Party, and I will make a few suggestions to help these Danes. We would like the residence requirement to be changed to 7 out of 12 years. That would be the best suggestion. But we can also suggest, if it becomes too much for the government and the Danish People's Party, that you could say 7 out of 10 years. This may actually mean that Danes have several years abroad and can at the same time come home and receive daily allowances to which they have paid for several years. This certainly allows them to spend several years abroad, which means that it will not be just one year, but, in the best case, five years and, in the second case, three years. I do not think that these proposals are difficult to accept, and I certainly look forward to hearing the parties and the government about it. This proposal will also mean a lot of administrative work for the cashiers at a time when everyone, and especially the Minister, is talking a lot about simplification and how important it is to have more time to get the individual into work. Here we will then examine in the party how much it will mean for the A-boxes, and we have already called for consultation on that subject in order to learn more about how much time is going to be spent on it. However, as I have said, we can support a residence requirement and thus safeguard our daily allowance, but expect and hope that we can talk sense into the bourgeois parties during the committee procedure, so that we make the proposal less wrong and thus help ordinary Danes who just want to work for a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165651	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165657	Thank you. Sounds good to me, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen goes in constructively and says that this proposal to protect the Danish daily allowance is quite good, but that 7 out of 8 years is too short. Then Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen 7 out of 10 years old, and you don't want to see that happen. There will be a constructive proposal and you can always see what that means. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen: Will the Social Democratic Party help ensure that Danish citizens are not affected by this proposal, so that Danish citizens are exempt from this proposal, so that only those who are not Danish citizens and come from outside? This does not already apply to those who are from EU and EEA countries, but will the Social Democrats help to ensure that this will not affect Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165800	In fact, we in the Social Democratic Party have done our preparatory work properly, because I have asked a question, Question No. 292, BEU alm. Part, 2017-18, to the Minister, who answers that if we do, it goes against conventions and other things. And we can't, because then we'll make a difference between Danish citizens and others, so we can't. Then we've done something else. So we have just asked the question: is it possible to propose anything other than 7 out of 8 years? Is it possible to propose 7 out of 10 years or 7 out of 12 years? There the Minister says that you can do that very much. And in Jyllands-Posten on 31 March 2018, René Christensen, the financial rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, said about the proposal for 7 out of 10 years: "I think you will find that such models benefit Danes so much that it will be overruled as discrimination. However, if you can find a solution that does not fit into conventions or international rules, then we would like to look at it. In other words, according to the Ministry, this is not something that goes against the rules, and then I hear the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen, say you can. So I am curious to see who decides in that party whether it is the financial rapporteur or the labour market rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165907	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165908	Well, that's the usual thing, you don't really get an answer to it. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is not concerned about whether you want to help ensure that it does not affect Danish citizens. This is done by terminating the convention. That is the way to do it when you say that this should not affect Danish citizens. As I interpret it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has said, so the Social Democratic Party says: No, we do not want to do that; we do not want to help secure Danish citizens, because we stick to the conventions; but we want to help extend the period from 7 to 10 years. I think that is commendable, and we shall have to look at what that means. But do I understand it right, in other words that the Social Democrats will not help to ensure that Danish citizens are exempted from this by terminating the convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023165955	We stick to the conventions that exist, because we do not want to discriminate against citizens, but we really want to help ordinary Danish employees who choose to go abroad to work. But if the Danish People's Party doesn't agree to this, I just have the feeling that it won't. The Danish People's Party does not want to help ordinary employees, it may be craftsmen, it may be anyone travelling abroad. The Danish People's Party will not. What we're trying to do here is just give a hand to these Danes, to ordinary people who want to get out and work for x years, and I think they should be allowed to do that. That's what we're trying to do with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170031	There is one more for a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170036	Thank you. I have seen in the media, I think it was yesterday that the rapporteur said that this bill hits the wrong people. So I've been thinking, what the hell does the man mean by that? Then who are the real ones? Who is it the Social Democrats would like to hit with this bill? But I have now realised that it is the foreigners that you want to hit. If only it hits foreigners, it's okay. Is the social democracy really so far in its development, I think, worrying, that it is now prepared to discriminate between Danish and foreign employees when it comes to the right to unemployment benefit? That is what happens if the rapporteur's intentions are followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170125	There can be nothing more wrong. The reason we've been proposing these 7 out of 12 years is precisely to treat people the same, that is. the same rules apply to both foreigners and Danes. It is simply to treat them equally, because that is what we can do, otherwise we must, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted proposes breaking all kinds of conventions. It is an attempt to say that we are in favour of the principles of profit. We do. We think it's good that you earn to get our benefits in this country. But of course you have to be treated the same, and that is why we are proposing this here, because it applies to both foreigners and Danes who leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170206	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170208	Would the rapporteur like to acknowledge that the amendment proposed by the Social Democratic Party does not change anything at all by the fact that there is discrimination, because then there is discrimination between two kinds of taxpayers, two kinds of members of the fund, two kinds of people who meet exactly the same requirements for obtaining the right to benefit, namely to work and pay taxes in this country, to pay quotas and to meet the labour requirement in order to obtain a daily allowance? People are discriminated against on the basis of how long they have been here in Denmark. What does the rapporteur think this will mean for the cashiers? Danish coffers have said this very clearly. They are very concerned about the development of the cashiers. The comments made by the proposal also clearly state that this will lead to the loss of members in the cashiers of approx. 20,000. How can a Social Democrat even support that idea? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170306	I think the trade union movement and the cashiers are happy if we get this through, because in relation to the proposal for the 7-8 years, that means that we are helping to preserve some of their members. This is why there are several ordinary Danes who can actually see an advantage in staying in the cashier's system. Of course, we can also ask how many Danes that means something to. We can do that during the committee procedure. But I have no doubt that they can see that it will actually make some of the ordinary Danes who left, so choose to stay in the A-boxes rather than earlier, where they would choose to go out. So I guess the cashiers can see an advantage in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170344	There is one more thing for a brief remark. Mrs. Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170349	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a fine account of the views of the Social Democratic Party in this matter. I'm just a little insecure anyway. Does this mean quite specifically that if this were to be changed to 7 out of 10 years, then the Social Democrats would vote in favour of the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170409	In concrete terms, this means that we would like to see 7 out of 12 years, but we also make the suggestion that if you can see 7 out of 10 years as an opportunity, then yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170418	There are no more brief comments from the author, nor from others, so thank the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170429	Thank you for that, President. This proposal has just come to ensure that there should be no abuse of the benefit system from foreigners who have come to Denmark and want to work and then can get unemployment benefit. Therefore, the agreement has been made that you must have been in Denmark for 7 years out of the last 8 years in order to be entitled to benefit. We recognize that good work has been done to try to ensure that those who work in Denmark, if they are sent out, if they are hired on a ship, then do not get hit by this rule. If they are resident abroad as a representative of a Danish public authority, they will not be affected either. If they are abroad otherwise as employed in the public Danish interest, they are not covered by this either. And if you are employed in a Danish company, including a branch or a subsidiary, you are not affected either. This also means that stays abroad for the purpose of vocational training, once the member has fulfilled the residence and residence requirement immediately before the training was started, are not covered. Also excluded are stays abroad as a researcher at a foreign university, research institution or company, once the member has fulfilled the residence requirement immediately before the foreign residence was commenced. And the same goes for spouses, cohabitants, registered partners and orphans of a person who fulfils one of the exceptions, so you won't be affected by it. So we've come a long way. What we must then have the Minister clarify is what it means with a Danish company. Is it a company established in Denmark or should it be Danish-owned? We need to clarify this, because there may be differences in this respect. I think that would be right and proper to clarify that. I think it is an excellent proposal as such, but in the Danish People's Party we will be ready to look at it, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has come along, that is, what it means if you have to change it to 7 years out of 10 years. It may be sensible to have an investigation. And that's how I get it from Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen, that if he got it through, the Social Democrats would vote in favour of this proposal if it were changed to 7 years out of 10 years; that is how I understand it. But I shall not be able to say from the platform whether it is possible. In the Danish People's Party, we would much rather look at how we ensure that Danish employees, Danish citizens, are not affected inadvertently because of this proposal. So, of course, we are ready to investigate that. But let us now examine the proposal made by Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, before we finally take a position on that proposal. But I think it is positive that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen makes a constructive proposal and says: We would like to take part in this if we could have our wish met here. That must also be acknowledged, and there we must be ready to see whether there are any options there. I cannot say that at this stage, but we fully support what has been said in the Danish People's Party, including what our rapporteur has said and what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen read. If we can find a solution to ensure that Danish citizens are not affected inadvertently, we are also ready to look at it. But, of course, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal, and then we have these clarifications that we must have made in committee before the third reading, and then we must see what the minister will come up with and what it looks like if we are to meet the wishes of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170840	Thank you. I see that there are four short comments for the time being, and the first is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170850	It sounds very exciting to support the proposal in 7 out of 10 years, but I would prefer to see 7 out of 12 years, that would be even better, because then you have a little longer out, and we would certainly appreciate that very much. So I hope you will. I just have to say that the rapporteur is also mentioning all those who are not in this, in other words everyone who, with the proposals that are, is not among those who are being affected. By Mr. Bent Bøgsted well that it is 1,750 Danes who are affected by it • it can be craftsmen and others who have actually gone abroad to work in foreign companies? So, according to the Minister, it is 1,750 Danes who are affected by this, and I say that because Mr. Bent Bøgsted is trying to make it sound like there's no one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023170950	Yes, but that is also why I said that we in the Danish People's Party would rather find a solution that exempts Danish citizens. If we could do it, we would. We would be more than happy to do so, even if it is the termination of a convention that is needed. The Danish People's Party is not very much in favour of conventions, so that's not what the Social Democratic Party is. So I guess we can't go that way. But if we can find a solution to ensure that Danish citizens are not inadvertently affected by this, then we are ready to look at it. And if that's the solution that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen will be joining us, 7 out of 10 years, which will benefit them, and we will be ready to look at it as well. I just can't decide if we're for it. We just have to look at what it means that we have to make it 7 out of 10 years, that is, how many people do not get hit by it and how much it costs in that regard. We have to bring that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171047	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171050	In other words, what I hear the rapporteur say is that the Danish People's Party is ready to look constructively at the two proposals, so if it turns out that the two proposals actually go in and help several Danes who usually work abroad, then you are ready to look at it positively. Is that what I hear the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171112	Well, we'll look at it positively. Even if it is something that can be done, we will see when we have talked to the Minister about it. However, the Minister must now have time to examine the proposals made by Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen has come with us. But I really appreciate the fact that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen works constructively in this connection, and if we can ensure that Danish citizens are not affected by this, then we are ready to look into it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171138	The next brief remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171142	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of foreigners who abused the benefit system. Would the rapporteur be kind enough to document and explain what this is? The rapporteur is talking about an abuse which is obviously so serious that one is ready for per cent. 1 January 2019 to deprive thousands of people of their daily allowance rights, on the one hand, on the grounds that they have not stayed long enough in Denmark. What abuse is the rapporteur talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171212	In our opinion, the benefit system is reserved for the Danes who live and live in Denmark and to whom Danish citizens pay. We are not interested in saying that some people come from third countries and work in Denmark for a few years, and then they are entitled to a daily allowance. What this system ensures is that they can't get it because you have to be here for 7 out of 8 years before you can get it. So, yes, it's discrimination, if that's what it is, sir. Finn Sørensen thinks. But our approach to that is that we must do what we can to ensure the Danish worker. It is not our job to ensure that a man from Africa or India can receive Danish daily allowances because they have been in Denmark for 2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171256	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171258	Thank you. This means that the rapporteur would like to see 'because it will be the consequence of the current rules that we will have a very large group of people on the labour market, perhaps not so many at first, but in the years to come, who have very little or no social security at all? What impact does the rapporteur think it will have on the Danish labour market? Do we not think that all the justified criticism we make of what we call social dumping from EU rules will pale in relation to the consequences if we have a large group of people who have no social security and who are therefore prepared and desperate enough to do anything to survive?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171351	If you look at the group that Mr. Finn Sørensen mentions here, it will typically be foreigners who come to Denmark and work here for less time. Perhaps they have just worked here for a year and earned the right to cash benefits because they have joined an unemployment fund and they can come from Africa, and they can come from Asia, and they can come from many other places. They have the opportunity to go home to their own country afterwards. It's just not our approach to it that we have to ensure that they can get Danish daily allowances by being able to come to Denmark and then work here for a year. That's not what's meant to be, and it's holding this up. But if the Danish citizens, we are ready to look at how to ensure that they can still have their daily allowance rights. That is also what I explained on the previous question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171442	The next brief remark is Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171448	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is here today. Bent Bøgsted will help look at how people who have worked here for so many years are actually secured when they go out because there is no work here. I was employed at Lindøværftet for many years, and they shut it down. It was just in a time of crisis, and there was no work to be done. There were colleagues from Lindøværftet who couldn't see any other options but to go out into the world and take a work on 2- and 3-year contracts because there was no work at home. Some did. If you have a similar case when it comes to the legislative proposal that is here, it simply happens that they will not get any right when they come home. Although they have worked at the yard for many years, they paid the quota etc. etc., they will lose the right to benefit if they simply go ahead and work for another company outside the EU. Is that fair? Does the rapporteur think it is right to do so in this way with those who have actually paid their taxes for a very long time in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171556	That is why I said that we are ready to look at how we can ensure that Danish citizens are not inadvertently affected by this proposal. If we can find a solution that is acceptable and if we can ensure that Danish citizens are not affected by it, we are ready to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171610	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171613	Knowing, too, that the contracts run for a few years? Before you can get out and get a job outside Europe, it is usually a certain number of years that you have to sign up for. And the rapporteur must remember to look at this when it comes to making a compromise on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171631	If it were for the Danish People's Party, we would be more than happy to look at the convention that is the reason why we cannot exempt Danish citizens from 100 per cent. We would much rather exempt Danish citizens from 100 per cent, but the Social Democrats will not, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171647	The next question is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171652	Thank you. This bill is at least one of those people that hit me a little bit in my stomach somewhere. As a trained carpenter, I come from a profession where it is quite common for colleagues to travel abroad, both in Europe, but also elsewhere in the world, working not like that on happiness and piousness, but to get out and try their trade from some other places and learn some things out in the world. What the bill envisages is that, although you have worked in Denmark and have earned your benefit right, you have no more when you return home after you have left, even if you have returned home and become more skilled and can contribute to Danish society in a better way with your craftsmanship. I feel like you're putting a stop to that tradition. How does the rapporteur think that this issue could be resolved in relation to the legislative proposal that is before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171752	Well, the easiest solution was to say that this bill did not apply to Danish citizens, but then the convention gets in the way that Social Democracy says you are not ready to look at and change. Then the Social Democratic Party has proposed it was Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who proposed it 7 out of 10 years. There I have said that if it can help Danish citizens, we are also ready to look at how it is connected. That is what the Minister will then have to examine and give an answer on how it is related.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171826	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171829	Now the figure that the Minister has given up in relation to the bill here is 1,750 people who will be affected by this. And what I hear the rapporteur say is that that figure must be down and that it must be down. Perhaps we can agree that it should really be 0, or at least as close as possible. At the committee reading, there will now be some questions which say, as it were, what if that is 7 out of 10? What if it's 7 out of 12? If the minimum number is 7 out of 12, is that not what the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur want to say 'yes' to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171903	I shall wait until we have seen the answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments at the moment. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur on the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023171918	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the draft law in a distinguished manner. First of all, I would like to stress that in Denmark we have one of the best and most flexible unemployment benefit systems in the world. It is a system that we have built up for decades, paid for by Danish tax dollars from people who day after day, year after year lace their shoes and go to work. We can be proud of our welfare system, we can be proud of our unemployment benefit system, and we must safeguard that, so that in the future we can also hold a safe hand under the Danish labour market. That is why I also think it is quite reasonable that we should keep the strongest hand under those who have contributed to our society. I think it is common sense for us to say with this bill that we must have contributed to the common fund for a number of years before we have full access to it. That is not an unreasonable demand. Then, of course, we must be careful that we do not close the door to the Danes who want to travel out into the world to work, and we certainly do not close that door. It is important to make this clear. Firstly, in the future, there will also be freedom to work in an EU or an EEA country without having any consequences for the daily allowance, including sickness and maternity benefits. You will also be able to continue to travel as a student who is a researcher or stationed in a Danish company or authority without having to worry about the right to a daily allowance when you return. It will remain intact. I have also noted that parties outside the government have now also begun to worry about trouble and bureaucracy, and it is in itself wonderful that the government has got a broad majority in the Folketing on that wagon. The concern in this case is whether the cashiers are now also equipped to obtain information from the country in which a member has resided. Right here, I do not think we should be so nervous, because the cashiers are already exchanging information from EU and EEA countries on, for example. periods of insurance and employment. So they have experience of exchanging information today, and I think they can manage that in the future too. So all in all, the Left supports this bill, which makes it clear what is right and what is reasonable in order to obtain full entitlement to Danish benefits. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172158	There is a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172201	Thank you. During the previous point, the rapporteur made a touching speech about his desire for a safe and sound benefit system. Now he stands and supports a bill that means that per. On 1 January, thousands of people lose their right to benefit. The only mistake they have made is that they have been a little too long abroad or that they have come to Denmark a little too late. That is the only mistake they have made, otherwise they will all meet the requirements to obtain the right to benefit. They have paid taxes in Denmark for at least 1 year, they have contributed to Danish society. Some of them have gone out because they would like to get more qualifications, which they then come home and share with the rest of us. Others are foreigners who want to satisfy employers' insatiable need for labour. They'll be punished for that. How does all this work out?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172258	Basically, we find that when you have to have full entitlement to unemployment benefit, we also think that you should have contributed, and here for a longer period, to the Danish benefit system through the tax you have now paid in Denmark. That is why we are putting forward this bill that you must have stayed for 7 out of 8 years in order to be entitled to full benefit. We find this to be a matter of first and foremost fairness, that we protect the Danish unemployment benefit system, protect the Danish model, and it is only ensured if we ensure that when you contribute, you contribute through Danish tax paid in Denmark during the years you have now worked in Denmark. That's how it works. That's how our welfare community is screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172400	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172402	Our welfare society has, in normal circumstances, until the bourgeois government came into being, been screwed up in such a way that if you paid taxes in this country, you were entitled to the same welfare benefits as all sorts of other taxpayers. This is a very good principle in a tax-financed welfare system and also in a partly tax-financed benefit system. Now the rapporteur says that it is to safeguard the Danish model and safeguard the Danish benefit system, but this does not protect the Danish model or the Danish benefit system. After all, the government's own comments on the bill show that it is expected that the cashiers will lose 20 000 members in a few years' time. Would the rapporteur not just admit that this is what he wants? You want to weaken the benefit system. There is a desire to weaken employees' confidence in the benefit system. You want to weaken the cashiers because you know that if you get through with it, you also weaken the trade union movement. This bill is purely employer policy. Admit it now! When you are a representative of the employers at Tinge, you have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172508	I find it difficult to see that what the rapporteur has referred to as allegations is in line with the fact that we have reached an agreement on a better benefit system, in which we add 300 million. kr. more to create a safer benefit system. There are 2 million members of the cashiers, who are therefore also entitled to cash benefits if they meet the requirements of 2 million. I do not believe that this is at all disturbing the Danish model. I am quite sure that there will continue to be strong support for the Danish model, and we would certainly like to encourage that there remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023172556	Thank you. This bill is another step in the long-standing attacks by the government parties and the Danish People's Party on the unemployment benefit system and the impoverishment of wage earners who lose their right to benefit. Now we want to introduce a residence requirement which means that thousands will lose their right to benefit and other thousands will be prevented from achieving it, as well as the proposal could have consequences for these people's sickness and maternity benefits. Those concerned can then instead seek the integration allowance, which corresponds to about a third of the daily allowance rate, which in most cases will make it impossible for these people to maintain what experts call a modest and necessary standard of living. The government is suggesting that the proposal will only affect approx. 4,500 people. I believe, and so do Danish cashiers, that it will hit a much larger group of Danish citizens, their foreign spouses and foreigners from third countries. The children of the persons concerned are also affected when they are 18 years of age and apply for admission to the a-box. Why does the government and the Danish People's Party make such a proposal? They do not hide the fact that it is to raise money for tax relief that the highest-paid people get the most from. In the large accounts, saving is a small amount of 200 million. kr., which one might find elsewhere if one wanted to, but it must definitely be the unemployed who have to pay again. It argues that this is a signal that you need to have a closer link with Denmark in order to be entitled to benefit, but persons who have obtained the right to benefit already have a close connection. The benefit system is an insurance scheme that you can benefit from if you pay tax in this country and pay your quota. You also have to have had 1 year's work for an annual salary of at least 228,000 DKK. within the last three years and you have to have paid the cashier's quota for one year. In addition, you must participate in the interview and activation course of the job centre. There is no danger that foreigners may abuse that system to a greater extent, and there are no examples of them doing so. It has to pay to work, so more people get into jobs, says the government. It doesn't even believe that. The government expects only 500 more people to get to work and, as usual, you are unable to explain why, where and how. No, we need to look elsewhere to find out why it is so important for the government and the Danish People's Party to implement such a proposal. In fact, it is in the comments. The government itself expects that the A-boxes will lose approx. 20,000 members in that account. What happens if you weaken the A-boxes? Then you weaken the trade union movement and the employees as such. And that is also why the proposal is rejected by the trade union movement and Danish cashiers. This is the real agenda for the government and the Danish People's Party. At the same time, it is part of an overall plan for massive impoverishment of large sections of the population, Danes as well as foreigners. After all, the proposal for a residence requirement for daily allowances comes on top of the tightening of access to cash benefits, because this is now a residence requirement of 9 out of 10 years. It comes on top of the cash benefits ceiling, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. This comes on top of the introduction of a residence requirement in order to be entitled to children's checks and family allowances. And the next step, and this has been announced by the parties, is the introduction of a residence requirement in order to be entitled to resource development benefit, unemployment benefit and flex-job subsidies. Nothing is too small, even not to hit sick, vulnerable and disabled people to get through with that plan. All these tightenings lead to a growing group of people who have little or no social security. They will be pressured to take the worst paid jobs, and this will push wages throughout the labour market. That is the purpose of it. It's raw and dirty class struggle in the interests of employers. But it is not, and now I have to look at my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, in the interest of Danish employees. Therefore, foreign dancers and foreigners who work and pay taxes in this country must have the same opportunities to obtain benefit rights and social security as all other taxpayers, same rights and not discriminatory proposals as this, which discriminates against taxpayers after how long they have been in Denmark. Enhedslisten is voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173037	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173045	In the Liberal Alliance, we generally want access to Danish services to be conditional on living and paying taxes in Denmark. The starting point should be to provide before you can enjoy, and Denmark should not, of course, be an attractive dependent country for foreigners. But this goal isn't quite simple. We in Denmark have committed ourselves to EU cooperation for good and evil, and the desire to earn the right to welfare benefits is neither applicable EU law nor a desire shared in large parts of the EU system. So, in the reality we find ourselves in, you have to do what you can, and this bill is also an expression of that. Because with the proposal, a stay in an EU country is, after all, equivalent to working and paying taxes in Denmark, and we do not really think this is optimal. One might also point to a slight absurdity in the proposal, because there are Danes who have paid for years from abroad to cashiers who, with this proposal, will lose the opportunity to receive cash benefits if they return to Denmark. But that is the law: when there is a large state cofinancing of the unemployment benefit system, we must also make sure politically that the money is spent on those for which it is intended, and the targeted target group for unemployment benefit is people who work and pay taxes in Denmark and who need unemployment insurance. In my view, there is a greater injustice in the fact that ordinary, hard-working Danes have to pay for daily allowances to people who do not pick up their part of the bill. So in the Liberal Alliance we are very pleased with this proposal; we think it is quite the right way to go, even if we recognise that we are far from achieving it. But, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173250	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173252	Thank you. What did the rapporteur mean by saying that you will not pay the daily allowance to people who do not pick up their part of the bill? I know you can't get cash benefits in this country if you don't work in this country. There is the exception that you can take your daily allowance for 3 months when you are looking for work in another country. But if you do not work and pay taxes in this country and if you do not meet the labour requirements, a rather harsh labour requirement, by the way, to get a daily allowance of one year out of the last 3 years, if you do not pay your quota, and if you do not have an annual salary of 228,000 kroner in one year, you cannot get a daily allowance in this country. So what kind of cash is it that we pay to who doesn't pick up their share of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173338	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173340	As I said in the speech, it is of course the case that, as the rapporteur knows, the benefit system is financed by taxpayers. It's not a system that's 100%. user-funded. And if you haven't been in Denmark for many years and haven't paid taxes in Denmark for many years, you haven't contributed to the benefit system we have in Denmark, and we think that in all its reasonableness you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173402	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173405	Would the rapporteur like to confirm that there can be no daily allowance, Danish daily allowance, without contributing to the system? You can't do that! You cannot get it without paying tax in this country, and you cannot get it without paying your membership fee to the cashier, who after all is financing a fairly large proportion of the daily allowance costs. Would the rapporteur just like to confirm that fact?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173428	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173430	It is true, as the rules have been when you come home and have been abroad for many years, but that is exactly what we want to tighten up. We think that we should have contributed through an income principle, and that is what the draft law will do, and that is what we think is right and right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173446	There is no further request for the floor, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173458	Thank you very much. I actually think that most things have been said. The alternative isn't going to vote yes to this. When you pay your taxes, you have to have the rights that belong to it. We are also afraid that many thousands of people will lose their right to benefit, that is to say the opportunity to earn it. When you contribute, you must also have the benefits. There's almost nothing more to say. I really think that Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten said it pretty well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173530	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Torsten Gejl, and we proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173542	Thank you. We are radically opposed to the bill. In my view, it is of course necessary to have a legal residence in order to be able to earn a daily allowance, but from there it must be the general income requirements that apply. As you know, the proposal has a number of consequences. There will be fewer in the benefit system, because why should you be a member if you cannot get cover? There will be less unemployment insurance for people with ordinary foreign residences, where they have taken up employment. There will be thousands of people who lose the insurance against unemployment they otherwise have. There will be plenty of people who have paid contributions to the benefit system from abroad and who lose their coverage. Do we really want to? Radical Left will not, and we will work against the bill and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173636	This did not give rise to any comments either, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge, SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173643	The government and the Danish People's Party seem to think that they are hitting some foreigners with this bill, and it is a goal that can unite the parties. But so, this is about up to a few thousand Danish wage earners having to have a kick over the shin. In all sorts of other contexts there is a lot of talk about the strength of Danes working abroad. They're making money and getting better. They don't deserve us threatening them for security. In fact, I think it is a very strong move that the people working abroad want to secure themselves financially and at the same time contribute to the cash system and thus also to the pillar of our dynamic and flexible labour market model. This bill will hit ordinary workers directly on safety. SF is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173749	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173754	Thank you, and thank you for the clear message that came at the end: that you are against it. I have just one question, and the rapporteur must not take it amiss, it is not to be polemical and vicious and all sorts of things. But I only heard the rapporteur argue that Danish employees are suffering. Does the rapporteur agree and equally disagree with the fact that foreign workers are also affected, who have to work on an equal footing with the rest of us to the extent that they are here in Denmark and work in Denmark? It's just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173831	Yeah, it's just that, and I'm not taking it for anything else either, sir. Finn Sørensen. The reason I mentioned it with Danish employees was that I did so, in the context of the fact that I was actually polemic towards the government parties and their support party. I fully agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it affects others too, and that it is actually just as serious. It was my attempt to be polemical about the bill that I stressed that it was Danish employees, because I know that it is something that worries the Danish People's Party and the government parties extraordinarily much more than others. That's the only reason I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173901	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173904	Thank you. But then I am also more calm and, of course, satisfied with it, because it is a quite relevant criticism. So, the Danish People's Party continues to say: yes, we would rather not hit the Danish employees, but unfortunately we will have to, because we are in some conventions. Does the rapporteur agree that if you do not want to hit Danish employees, there is a very simple solution, and that is to withdraw this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173931	Well, I can only confirm that the Danish People's Party is a bunch of choppers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173936	There are no further comments to the rapporteur, and so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Van der Klaauw. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023173945	Thank you. For us Conservatives it is quite natural that one should have a close connection with Denmark and have contributed to Danish society for a long time, if one should also benefit from the arrangements that we have here in Denmark. And this also applies to the arrangements for the benefit system. We must remember that about half the cost of the daily allowance scheme is paid by the Danish taxpayers. With this bill, we are introducing a residence requirement for the right to benefit, where you must have been resident in this country or in the EU or Switzerland for a total of seven years in the last 8 years, and we think this is a quite sensible approach. We also think it is quite reasonable that we should be aware here that we should not hinder the smooth functioning of the labour market in Denmark or that we should take an education abroad. That is why it is proposed, and we think it makes sense, that a number of stays abroad should be treated as stays in Denmark, so that people who have been associated with Denmark during their stay abroad can still obtain unemployment benefit. This is true, for example. This applies to researchers at foreign universities, and to vocational education and training and much more. We are also pleased that the bill will be phased into a gradual arrangement from 2019 to 2021, so that the residence requirement in 2019 will be 5 out of 8 years, by 2020 6 out of 8 years, and then it will be fully phased in by 2021. Conservatives think this is a very good proposal and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174114	This did not give rise to any comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And so we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174123	Thank you for a good debate on the bill that we are now discussing, namely the bill on residence requirements for entitlement to cash benefits. The bill is, as has also been mentioned, part of the coinage of the agreement on lower tax on labour income and greater deduction of pension payments made between the government and the Danish People's Party on 6 February 2018. The draft law introduces a residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit, according to which a member of an unemployment fund must, as a rule, have resided here in the kingdom, another EU country or EEA country or Switzerland for at least 7 out of the last 8 years. With the agreement reached, the government and the Danish People's Party are facilitating taxes on especially work and pension payments by 5 billion. kr., so that the unemployed get a greater gain by taking a job and it will pay better for not least the low-paid Danes to save up for pension. That is basically common sense. It has been a fundamental desire of the government to have a close connection with Danish society if you are to benefit from the benefit system. The residence requirement sends a clear signal that the conditions for access to the full benefits in Denmark are that you have a firm connection with Danish society and have also contributed to this for a long period of time. It should also be seen in the light of the fact that the benefit is not an ordinary private insurance scheme, which some would like to give the impression of. It is an insurance against unemployment, where about half of the costs have been paid by taxpayers. Therefore, it is also reasonable that you have contributed to society before you can get a daily allowance. At the same time, the government does not want to hinder the smooth functioning of the labour market in Denmark, or that, for example, it does not want to hinder the smooth functioning of the labour market in Denmark. can take an education abroad. That is also why we have proposed that a number of stays abroad be treated as stays here in Denmark. It provides for the possibility for persons who have had a link with Denmark or a Danish company during their stay abroad to be entitled to unemployment benefit. And that is what we have outlined in the draft law, and I would just like to refer to the six things that have been mentioned. The draft law also provides for the possibility for spouses and cohabitants, registered partners and orphans of persons who qualify for one of the exceptions to be able to equate a stay abroad with a stay in this realm. In addition, I can inform you that the proposal is gradually phased in from 2019 to 2021, so that people have a greater opportunity to adapt to a benefit system where the conditions for access to the full benefits are that they have had a firm connection with the Danish society and contributed to it over a long period of time. The residence requirement will therefore be 5 out of 8 years in 2019 and 6 out of 8 years in 2020. After the debate here in the Danish Parliament and the Employment Committee, the bill is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019, and I am indeed looking forward to the committee's consideration, also on the basis of the many positive comments that have actually come from several parties today. In this context, I would also like to say to the Danish People's Party that during the committee procedure we will have to establish completely the rules needed to define in detail what is understood by a Danish company.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174454	There is a request for a brief comment, first from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174503	I just want to hear from the Minister whether the proposal I made on the platform that the residence requirement was changed to 7 within 12 years or 7 within 10 years has some time on the ground. Is this something that the Minister will certainly consider and see as an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174521	In other words, it does not immediately have much time on the ground, because it provides a lower revenue compared to the agreement concluded with the Danish People's Party. And the money's been spent, so it still has to be financed. Nevertheless, for my own sake today, I have set in motion work to find out what the Social Democrats' proposals involve in relation to revenue and hence also the lack of revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174543	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174545	So that means that the comment to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, is it going to be uphill if you're gonna bring the government into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174556	Now there is never anything that stays uphill; when Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen talks about it, it's kind of always downhill. But now we owe it to ourselves to examine the small size of the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party. But you have to sign for the Social Democrats to support an income principle. I would also like to say today that I am glad of this, because it is new to the other parties from which the Social Democratic Party is to receive the support of a possible new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174622	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174625	Thank you. First of all, I would like to know whether the Minister agrees that with this bill there is a very marked breach of the principles of the Danish benefit system. The second thing I want to hear about is that we are currently negotiating on the basis of the Government's desire to import a whole lot of labour from countries where it is precisely citizens who come from there who are affected, namely from the so-called third countries, that is. outside the EU and the EEA and Norway and Iceland. What does that mean? The government would like to import a whole lot of labour just exactly from those countries, but they will not be allowed to have the right to benefit until they have been here for seven years. Why? Is it because one thinks that they are then a little more compassionate and willing to accept any claim from the employer because they have no security if they are to be dismissed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174729	On the question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, if you get the impression, a new class fight has almost started. It is, of course, as I said in my reply here that half of the costs of our benefit system have been paid by taxpayers. Sometimes you get the impression that it is a system that carries itself completely. That is why I think it is reasonable that, when Danish society is involved in financing our unemployment benefit system, we should also help to contribute to the society to which we have come. So no, I kind of think it's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174809	Sir. Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174812	Yes, thank you. Sir. Sørensen? Thank you, sir. Engelbrecht. But wouldn't the Minister like to confirm that if you don't contribute to Danish society, you can't get unemployment benefits in this country? You have to work in this country, you have to pay taxes in this country, and when you become unemployed and meet the requirements for cash benefits, you can get it. You can obtain cash benefits without having contributed to the Danish society. But the Minister did not answer the question I asked. In other words, when we talk about foreigners who are affected, this bill is, after all, entirely targeted foreigners from what we call third countries. What does that mean? You want to import a lot of labour from those countries, but those people should not be allowed to earn the benefit; they should not be allowed to have the same security as other taxpayers have in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174859	I'm gonna get a little confused, because Mr. Cole... Finn Sørensen is very interested in how to secure those outside the European Union who might come here, that they will have better conditions, while Mr. Finn Sørensen does not even recognise that there is a problem in relation to labour shortages. So it's a little confusing. Normally, I hear Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen believes that there is absolutely no reason at all for people to come to Denmark and work. But I note now that Mr. Finn Sørensen is no longer here, and I look forward to seeing that in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174930	We thank the Minister. There is no further request for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If no one objects to it, then I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023174949	The debate is open. And I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175008	In fact, if we take this right, I believe that the proposal we are debating today will create a motorway to get more money into our welfare society. Ever since we created occupational pensions in Denmark, we have been trying to find ways of ensuring that, at one and the same time, a good return could be achieved for pensioners at that time, that is to say for those who have to have pensions, and to pursue a desire that the huge sums that we save in our society are spent on something sensible rather than being spent on all sorts of speculative businesses around to maximize profits. So we have always had a desire that the more pension money you could get to be spent in a welfare society; that the more of the pension money you could spend on something that was sensible and for the benefit of the employees who are going and paying into the pension funds, the better. I believe that with this bill we have a very good idea of how this can be done. In other words, one of the huge achievements that we in the Social Democratic Party believe there are with this bill is that we are moving out of the path where pension funds can be spent on something sensible. That's one thing. The second thing is that I think that all people who have worked in the public sector know about the idea that I myself have practically gotten in with the breast milk with two parents who have worked in the public sector... that if you had just done the right thing with those children in the first place, the problems would not have grown so big. So if you had caught it when they were 6 years old and you started to peek that the mother might have started to drink and things had started to go wrong on the home front, that is to say, had already set in with the family, holistic and all these things hadn't gone so wrong; then you would have imagined how it would develop and how expensive it would be for our society later on. We have never succeeded in doing so; it is a truth. The first time it is mentioned that we need to prevent • you can see if you go a little to the books • is in connection with Steincke's social reform in 1933. And even though we have been talking about prevention since 1933, we have never succeeded in much more than scratching the surface. And why aren't we? We are not, of course, because the first years of prevention are beginning to have to pay both for previous years and, in fact, for accidents that have been created because they were not done in the past and at the same time have to pay for the prevention that we are now going to put into effect. It is double-budgeting and it cannot be done. What is our great vision of creating the Social Fund is that we will have some money to spend on double accounting in the years when we will have to make the investments needed to make the prevention that we have not been able to do in all those years. So for us, the main aim of this is to create a main highway of funding into our welfare society, which we have not been able to point to in the past. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, I think there is a bit of a long way to go with regard to the comments on the legislation, and when you make such a big change and something as new and, by the way, far-reaching as this, it is really no wonder. So you shouldn't think of it as a bigger criticism than that. We need to correct some points in the comments on the legislation. We have also talked about this in the circle of agreements, and I do not see that there is much disagreement about it. However, when I mention it from the speaking chair of the Folketing, it is because it is always very good to have a formal record. So I would just like to come around some of the things that I think have been very important in the agreement we have made with each other and on which I have seen a great deal of agreement. And that is that when you start mixing private money into public welfare, you have to be a little cautious at least if you ask the Social Democrat. You've been working with social impact bonds all sorts of places in the world... you've done it in the Anglo-Saxon world, and you've done it in Scandinavia too. And these are two completely different ways to do it, depending on where you've done it. I think that we have found our own way in it, but one of the things we do not do in Denmark is to mix those who put the money on the table with those who have to do the job. I think this is a fairly crucial principle, because it means that the political decisions that are the basis for what is to happen to our welfare society are exactly where they are always going, namely in the Folketing. This means that decisions are not taken by private actors; decisions are taken in the Folketing. Thus, it is our democracy that decides what to do with our welfare. So it is important for us that there are completely waterproof bulkheads between investors on the one hand and those who perform, on the other. Moreover, this also means that those who are primarily going to carry out are the municipalities. And an example of something where I wanted us to be with this, for example. 5 years, is that I would think it was obvious to lower the class ratio in the Danish primary school on the back of the Social Investment Fund. It actually gives a very good picture of what we think you can do with this. It is incredibly expensive to lower the class ratio in primary school, but it is also one of the things that gives a very high return, because our children and young people are getting much better schooling for the benefit of society as such. This means, therefore, that it is essential for us to be able to invest in the large welfare institutions, in other words, that these are not small specialised Anglo-Saxon programmes, but precisely the large welfare institutions. I could say a lot more. I'll have to do that with the later treatments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175535	There will certainly be an opportunity to respond to a brief remark, Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175543	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. After all, the rapporteur outlines many of the sensible things and many of the sensible early efforts in which it makes very good sense to invest. I believe that on one point we have a great deal of disagreement, and this is, in fact, about where the funding should come from. Because what we have already had on the table in the previous speeches is that we know that early interventions, preventive social work gives itself many times again. It makes it human, but it also makes it economical. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur why it is so important for social democracy that private investors should be involved. Why is it that a return has to be deducted from this fund for private investors? It could be Goldman Sachs, with whom we have had very bad experiences before?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175632	But in principle, you could just get the Danes to pay incredibly many more percent in taxes, and then you could do the same. If the Enhedslisten can find 90 mandates that would like to write up the tax with let's say 40 billion a year or 50 billion a year, then of course you could just do it instead. I have never experienced that there were only 40 seats in the Folketing who would like to do so. In other words, in some recognition that this will not happen and, at least by changing majority voting, over the years it will mean that we do not have that motorway. And then I would say that as an ordinary pension customer, I would much rather have the money I have in PensionDanmark through 3F, my trade union, spent on the welfare society than on all sorts of strange projects around the world. So that duality I think there's in it. But it can be said that the desire for private money to come in is mostly about the fact that I have never been able to see the 90 mandates I have been in here since 1999 that were willing to write up the tax with such a large amount of money I would like to have in and work for preventative efforts. However, it may of course be that the Enhedslisten can point to the 90 mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175739	For the second round, just remember to press the button. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175750	I'm sorry. I'm new. I just need to figure out the technique. The consequence of that is that, and this is not provided for in the draft law, there will be some money going out of the system, that is to say, out as a return to private investors who will finance these past efforts. I just need to be sure where the cut is, because the Social Democracy and Enhedslisten are in fact agreed that in the area of placement and in relation to the places of residence we do not want funds to be drawn out. Then why is it exactly in this area? After all, these are means that we could spend on several early efforts to improve welfare to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175830	No, that's where I think it's gonna get mixed up. I do not like the fact that you can make money on welfare, and social democracy does not do that at all. But the money that comes in here is not money that is there today, so it is nothing about taking returns out of something that we are doing today. It is money that comes in on top of what is today, and you can then withdraw returns from it. So that means that it is not money that is in the system, so that does not mean that you suddenly have to take part in our home care and pay out as a return. I personally, and indeed the Social Democrats, would be against that, because, of course, we should not. It would almost seem that the state paid such an extra tax to some pension funds. For us, this has been about adding to the money we already spend and not replacing any of what is inside our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175913	No one else has asked for short remarks, so that was the time it was made. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023175922	Thank you. We are now discussing legislative proposals on the framework for the Social Investment Fund. The creation of the fund is part of the pool agreement for last year and agreed in broad agreement here in Things. The aim of the fund is to provide a framework for partnerships between public, private and voluntary sectors, to support the development of preventive interventions, new early and holistic efforts in the major welfare areas, with a view to achieving better results for citizens while reducing public spending. Looking back at the many investment pool projects over the years, you will see that there have been a great many good projects and a great deal of good work has been done, but there has been no systematic approach to projects having an impact target and being measurable, and there has been no systematic assessment of the results of individual projects, but the new fund does up with that, and that is the advantage. The projects will create knowledge of effects and initiatives and deliver better results for citizens while at the same time aiming at a reduction in public expenditure. This means that, through the projects, we can create knowledge of what measures we can take to create better conditions for citizens with less resource use. It is a knowledge that we are now sitting in a municipal council, too, sitting and missing when we have to give priority to what measures we should be setting in motion. And it is both about the very direct economic effects, such as when measures are being taken that bring weak citizens into the labour market as fully or partially self-supporting, with all the positive elements that this gives citizens, and that we save public support in the municipality. But these are also measures, for example. The abuser is brought out of the abuse and has a higher quality of life and a better life, while at the same time saving social costs in terms of less crime, less legal traits and less hospital traits. Now we are creating the framework for the fund to work on these things, and one of the things I look forward to is, of course, to follow the fund's coinage and the way the fund manages its intentions, because there will certainly be things when you set up a new fund such as this one that needs to be worked on along the way. But that being said, the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180130	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180136	As I also mentioned to the Socialist rapporteur, this bill opens up the possibility for private investors to invest in Danish social policy. Indeed, there is nothing in the draft law about how much a private investor will be able to withdraw from some given social project. Does the Danish People's Party have a limit on how big it must be? Is it 8%, 10%, 15%? 20% or 20%.? We know, of course, that social efforts give themselves many times again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180210	I think that the very essence of this is that through this fund we will have the opportunity to create some initiatives that would otherwise not have come. If we had a lot of money in the municipalities, we'd just do it. There are very many places where we can see that with a large investment we could do something, but that money does not exist. So if, through this, you can create some bets that actually create some big free amounts, then I really do not mind that there is a return to those who risk funds by setting those bets in motion. I don't want to start putting on percentages. We must take it along the road to what is reasonable in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180244	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180248	The rapporteur mentions the good intentions of the municipalities. I kind of believe in them, too. However, one of the challenges facing the municipalities is that it is precisely not possible to make long-term investments. Perhaps we should consider looking at loosening the very, very tight grip on the municipalities' economy, which among other things. The budget law makes and allows municipalities to actually make long-term investments. The profit that would then be would be able to reinvest in welfare and in other early efforts that are necessary rather than allowing it to go out as a return to a private investor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180324	I just see that the big challenge in that is to get the resources to make the bets that give the free values. That is why I see this as a tool to get started, so that we can actually create much better public services for overall and ultimately less money. I don't mind. It is a small revenue for those who invest money in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180345	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who is the rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180357	Thank you for that, President. I should like to start by saying that, since the rapporteur on innovation in the Left is unable to be present in the Chamber, I have promised to take the speech today. The Social Fund is, of course, a good answer to an important question, one might say. Because how do we improve, and how do we find new ways of putting in the past and helping people who live on the edge of our society? The Fund is not a definitive answer, but it can certainly help to provide an answer. The Social Investment Fund may help to develop interventions for social investment programmes in partnerships between municipalities, regions, non-profit foundations and, not least, civil society. That is why the draft law makes it possible for private investors, such as private investors, to be able to do so. pension companies can put money into the fund. So in this way we are helping to create a potential for better results among society's vulnerable citizens, and at the same time we may be able to reduce public sector spending. In this respect, I look forward to following exactly the development of the work on the fund, and I hope that, now that we adopt the legislative proposal here, we will quickly be able to see the wisdom of the legislative proposal. This is an area such as this, which may help to spread the various interventions that work. But it is equally important, one might say, to have some new initiatives tested, so that we can hopefully prevent even better in the long run. I also note that the Minister has high expectations of the fund, because it allows a great many different things to be supported. And I think that's a very right way to go. Hopefully, with some new, good private investors, we will, as I said, have a basis for prevention and, hopefully, for action in the past. So all in all, I actually think that this bill is a very good bill, which should have the support of all the parties in this Chamber, because this is exactly how we put in the past and get some new tools and, for that matter, new money to do good. That is why, of course, the Left is voting in favour of the draft law, and I think I should also welcome the Conservatives and say that they are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180638	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180642	The draft law on the composition of the board states that it must be representative and be able to qualify the decisions which the fund now has to make. With my glasses, I think it is very important that there should be a majority which has a social basis for this work. Is that also the view of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180710	I certainly believe that when the Minister gets this excellent work started, it will of course also make sure that the representatives who will be on the board are some who are also familiar with the area in which they are going to be dealing. So I would quite clearly believe that this is also one of the things that is being highlighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180731	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180734	So what I hear from the rapporteur is that, of course, we can count on the board of directors not to be with people from the financial world, people who are familiar with economic thinking, but that there will be a majority on the board of directors who have a social professional starting point and who can look into the problems that it is, of course, to do social work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180759	I think it is quite natural to set up a board of directors, to ensure good qualities among the members of the board, and indeed qualities can be many different things, including, as the rapporteur also says, that it may be to have insight into the social areas. But I would also say that having an insight into the economic part is also a good qualification to have on a board.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180822	No one else has asked for brief comments. So we thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and the chair has also noted that there was an indication from the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023180841	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we welcome the idea of social investment. We have long pointed out the absurdity that welfare investment must always be regarded as an expense, although we know that many preventive social efforts often pay off in the long run. They do so humanly, but they do so economically, and so it is also gratifying that many other parties have now reached the same conclusion. For us, social policy is primarily social policy. Therefore, the primary objective of social investment in preventive work and early efforts must and must also be to prevent social problems from arising or growing bigger, in other words to create better lives for people who are having difficulty. Unfortunately, this is not quite the understanding of social investment, which is at the heart of L 56. For example, prevention is not mentioned in a single word here, and when you read the draft law, you can see that this is indeed an investment business, a very central difference, as the Council of Social Affairs Ministers also points out in its hearing reply. An investment business has a clear and clear focus on profit and return, and unfortunately it also permeates this bill. I fear that the profit motive will be beyond consideration for the good, preventive and holistic work that we believe is absolutely necessary when it comes to creating better lives. In the Enhedslisten, we want to help establish a social fund, a fund that can invest long-term and help, among other things. In order to achieve this result, a number of changes need to be made to the draft law as it stands. Firstly, we believe that welfare efforts and the prevention element must be much more central to the fund's objectives. The demand for intervention to generate savings for the public sector and to exceed at least the cost of the effort should be removed. It must be possible to invest in social efforts that improve welfare and that create better lives without it absolutely creating economic and documentable savings. Money must be a means of improving our welfare efforts, never an end in itself. Therefore, it should also be possible to invest in interventions that reduce the risk of increased spending in the long term. Secondly, we believe that a limit should be placed on how much money private investors should be able to earn from our welfare. In the Enhedslisten, we would like to see a total ban on profit making on welfare, something on which we agree with other parties, at least in the field of housing. But at least it should be possible to set an upper limit on how much return an investor can demand with this bill. Society's exposed must never become a money machine for capital funds or other investors. Thirdly, we disagree with the analysis that investment programmes are necessary and sufficient for an effective project to be disseminated. It is possible to document effects and disseminate knowledge about what works without private investors absolutely having to make money from it. Many organisations already do that today. Similarly, there is also a huge amount of valuable knowledge among our many thousands of public employees who every day create welfare around the country. Therefore, the proposal for a social investment fund should also go hand in hand with a proposal to make it possible and more attractive for municipalities and regions to invest in preventive and long-term welfare interventions. It seems that we can all agree that social prevention and early investment pay off. Therefore, it should also be obvious to all parties in the Folketing that the state itself should invest in early efforts and preventive work, thereby reaping the profits itself, a profit that can be invested in welfare rather than end up in the hands of private moneymen. But, as I said, social policy is primarily social policy for the Enhedslisten. The aim is to create good life, and of course the Social Fund should also reflect this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181248	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181252	Does Enhedslisten believe that it is smartest that the pension funds' money, i.e. Danish employees' money is spent on welfare, or that they, for example, are spent on welfare. is spent investing in the arms industry in Australia?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181307	I am not buying Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's premise. It is possible to invest in something other than weapons in Australia. But the main point for me is that if it is such a good investment to make early bets and do preventive work, then I think that the profit that returns should stay in the public funds and be spent on developing welfare further or making other early bets.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181336	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181337	Yes, of course, if the public has invested the money, but it isn't. Well, here we are laying down that it is the pension funds that have invested the money. So the part of the money in which it is the public who puts it must, of course, go to the public, and that is why we are also proposing that the gate be divided on the return. So, of course, there has to be a connection between the two things. And you're right, it could also be Australian bridges, it doesn't have to be the weapons industry. But a very large part of the money in our pension funds is spent on, for example. Australian bridges or German wind turbines can be things that are reasonable enough. But it must surely be the case, all other things being equal, that when you as an employee put in a very large amount of money over a very many years, it is smarter that they are invested in the Danish welfare, and I do not actually understand that Enhedslisten cannot be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181426	In the Enhedslisten, we basically believe that as a treasury, as a society, we should make these investments, and there I just don't think we agree with the Social Democrats, who apparently want to open up a return on whether it is pension funds or capital funds like Goldman Sachs; there is, of course, a modulation in relation to who should have a return. But we would like it to be the state that makes that investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181456	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181501	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur, when he says that money is being withdrawn, is aware that in this type of investment money is not being pulled out from the public sector, in the sense that it is some money that was in the public sector and that we have paid out in tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181523	One can politically decide to invest in early interventions and preventive work, or one can choose to find funding elsewhere. You can do that to a private investor, and you can do it to a pension fund. The investment returns to itself with some return it is clear. We can agree on that. But the question is, who is going to get that return? And it is clear that, if capital is to come from outside, one would, of course, demand a return from an investor. That money's being pulled out. If, as a society, if we had decided in the Finance Act that we would finance that, then it would have been a surplus in the common fund and it could be spent on other social efforts. It's all about priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181611	Sir. Torsten Gejl, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181613	I assume that the rapporteur agrees with me that no money will be taken out of the public purse. Returns are not taken, for example. money that has been paid in tax and given to any private enterprise. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181629	If there was a political majority in here who wanted to make these investments with public funds, we would be able to reinvest the money. It is true that it will not cost the public one penny, but I think it would be more sensible for us as a society to invest in early efforts and preventive work so that we could spend the return that would be on making more welfare and more efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181654	No one else has asked for short comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181703	Thank you. I therefore agree with several of the previous rapporteurs, but not with the last speaker from the Enhedslisten. We think that this is a very sensible proposal, because the Social Fund is, of course, aimed at improving the efficiency of the public sector by spreading efforts which have some good results, but it is also an investment fund which must develop new initiatives. The picture that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil paints when she says a motorway of a cash flow into the welfare society, of course, just for a moment felt a little uncomfortable. However, it is true that we are doing this for a period of time in order to get some of these things started, because we in the municipalities need to spend resources at the moment on all the measures, all the initiatives that are yours, you cannot just pull out to spend them on early efforts, so there will, like, be a period in which you have to take care of those that you have not taken care of in the past. And it costs a lot of money. However, if we get started with this via the Social Fund, it is of course the idea that in the long term we can sort out one track again and thus actually save a great deal of money, hopefully, because we have got the early effort. So this is a really, really important agenda and we support it with the Liberal Alliance. It's a bit of an experiment, so we think it's such an exciting thing to follow, and we're looking forward to seeing if this construction is going to work. We shall, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181849	There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023181901	Thank you. Many of us have been saying for years that it is worth investing in people, not only human, which is the most important but also economical. In other words, if we succeed in creating the well-being and quality of life of people who are at risk, vulnerable groups, people who have all kinds of challenges, then we save money on the budgets in which money is set aside to pay for the challenges and problems that people have. That is why we must understand that we sometimes have to turn the concepts upside down when we say that bricks are investments and people are costs. It does not actually add up in this way, because people can actually be investments here. There may be someone out there thinking: what's the essence, what's the main engine, of this proposal? Just to explain it briefly: if you have a group it gets a little square, but I would like to explain the map of 100 people who are at risk and you using an investment of 10 million. kr. If we are to create the conditions for prosperity and quality of life in their lives, some of the money set aside in the health, social or judicial budgets will be saved later, because those people will not cost that money anyway. It may then be that it turns out that you are actually saving 20 million. kr. The problem in the past was that it was hard to find that money. However, through social investment, we have gradually come into the position that, by investing money in one place, we can actually find a way of retrieving the money that comes from the derived savings from elsewhere. That is, in fact, the dynamics of it. It is called social investment; we are also talking about social bonds. But it is here that if we invest in the well-being and quality of life of vulnerable groups, it leads to derived savings, and if we can bring them back again, we start to experience an economic cycle, and that is at least what we in the Alternative think is really interesting. It can then, in connection with the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, whether the Social Fund is run on a large scale, so that there is some investment on top of welfare, that is, not to save off welfare, but on top of welfare. Because we get the opportunity to make some efforts that we could not otherwise have made; which provide knowledge in the municipalities; which helps very many vulnerable Danes; and which means that without saving on welfare and without taking the tax dollars we can give a return to the investor. It's a new way of thinking about it, and I hadn't thought about it until I got here in the Folketing. I think this is something really exciting that we have done. And as you can probably hear, the alternative, of course, supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182201	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182206	I do not think I quite share the rapporteur's enthusiasm about this bill. The bill opens up, among other things. the Foundation can work through different structures. These may be projects and constructions where you work with a very specific group of vulnerable people. And we could come up with a scenario where you could do a project that would give itself back very quickly many times, that is to say give a high return, but we could also imagine that on the other hand there would of course be projects that might be harder • the rapporteur and I agree that early action against children often gives more back than against an elderly addict, for example. Will we not be able to end up in a place where private investors can invest in one part, the easy one, and then, as a society, we may be left with the heavy one, with the project that does not provide much return?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182308-2	Now, I think that is actually a very good objection and a very good thought and something we have discussed very, very much. You can call it cherry picking or creaming so there are some effects where you have some target groups that are really easy to help, then we help them quickly, and then we drive on. And we simply solve that by deciding what kind of projects we are going to do. We're the ones who decide. And we've made waterproof bulkheads between the investors and the performers. It is an important thing and it is an important thing that we need to be aware of. In other words, we must ensure that we do not get a cherry picking situation by being able to decide for ourselves which projects to invest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182354	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182356	You could imagine in relation to various investors whoever it is that their investment desire will be fluctuating, depending on how large the return is now. So you can say that if you make a comprehensive broad portfolio, where there are a large number of projects that we politically prioritise make very good sense, because it is about creating good life, but not necessarily giving it a big return, then it may be that you suddenly have a really hard time finding those investors. And that means that this distinction between who decides and who invests can be really difficult in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182438	It can be really difficult in practice, and it is also something to think about very carefully. But we've made it so that we're in charge, and for the same reason. And that's how it works. What the questioner has to remember is that in order to earn a single penny to anyone, well-being and quality of life must be created in the lives of vulnerable people or else this whole thing doesn't work. And it must be created on top of welfare; that is, we shall have welfare that we have not yet had. And the alternative doesn't share Enhedslisten's resistance to using private capital for this. If it can create well-being and quality of life in the lives of vulnerable people and thus generate value, we have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182518	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182521	I think there is one more element in this particular debate. Because I very much agree that rule number one is that we are in charge. This means that it is not an investor who decides what to invest in; it is the Folketing that decides it. But there is also one more safeguard rule that I would like to ask whether the alternative does not agree with is an essential part of the debate, namely the safeguard rule, which is that we pile the projects into one portfolio. That is to say, if we decide that what can be invested in, which gives some return, is one of the slightly heavier things that one cannot flash on one's website as an investor, then it is actually we who have made that decision and it is piled together so that all the projects are the portfolio in which one invests. So you can't take out individual projects. It seems to me that this has been an important safeguard clause in relation to the fact that we have constructed the fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182607	Thank you for that explanation. Because when I say we're in charge, that's exactly the way we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182615	There is no wish for any other brief comment, so we would like to thank Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur. We do not have a radical rapporteur, so we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023182628	Thank you. The SF is positive about the proposal. After all, there are several rapporteurs who have already explained what the purpose of this bill is. We are particularly positive about the fundamental intentions of the Social Investment Fund and the fact that the Fund should help to spread its efforts in the wider areas of welfare and that the Fund should help to develop and mature new initiatives in the wider areas of welfare. In this context, I also note that most of the consultation responses that are positive about precisely those intentions. However, there are also a number of points of attention that we in the SF believe are worth paying attention to. This applies both in the further committee process towards the final adoption of the legislative proposal, but also when the Social Fund is going to work. The first point concerns the fundamental target group of the Investment Fund and the risk that there will be an unfortunate distortion in the priorities for operations, on which there has just been a debate. As among others: The Council of Social Depriveds, FTF, BUPL, Danske Handicaporganisations and Mødrehjælpen point out in their consultation response that we need to ensure a balance in the efforts that are prioritised so that it is not only the immediately most profitable or financially secure interventions that are invested in. We have also tried to do something about this, precisely on the basis of this idea that it should be everything or nothing, i.e. that you can't pick in it and that it's us who like to define the portfolio. Such bias would otherwise risk giving priority only to very short-term and measurable interventions, while longer-term, uncertain and complex, but important issues are being downgraded. It is crucial to the legitimacy of the Social Investment Fund in the SF's optics that the economic incentive does not interfere with investing in important social and welfare policy issues. Another point concerns the representation on the Board of Directors of the Investment Fund, which has also been debated between some other rapporteurs. As can be seen from the bill, the Board of Directors is appointed by the Minister of Public Innovation, the National Association of Municipalities and the Danish Regions. At the same time, only the Board of Directors selects the projects which the Fund must prioritise, that is, when we have set the overall portfolio. We believe that there should be a thorough discussion of which criteria will be the basis for the selection of board members. At the same time, we also believe that the Advisory Committee to advise the Fund on its activities should be strongly represented by organisations and persons with great practical experience from different areas of welfare policy in both the public and voluntary sectors. In addition, a third important focus is the selection process of the Fund itself for projects. In SF, we believe that it is worth keeping in mind that in the long term there may be a need to adjust the board's selection process, for example. in the event of an increase in the volume of projects. Here, for the public's sake, it may be necessary to have a fully open and transparent parliamentary selection process, in which it is therefore not the governing board of the fund alone that decides. That is why we are also calling for it to be discussed in greater detail in the forthcoming committee process. Finally, as a fourth point, I should like to point out that we in the SF are starting from the fact that we are clearly most positive about cooperation with non-profit organisations, but that private cooperation can serve good purposes. As I have also mentioned before, it is extremely important that the objectives of the fund are not distorted, so that the financial incentives alone dominate the selection of projects and interventions. For us, therefore, it is also crucial that cooperation with private actors takes place on the right conditions and conditions. In addition to the points I have raised here, we will be asking the Ministry a number of questions in connection with the committee process. The questions are dealt with, among other things. laying down the detailed conditions for the annual selection of the Fund's themes, as provided for in the draft law, in the context of the financial law negotiations. We do not think that is very well described in the proposal as it stands at present. We would like to know how wide or narrow these themes should be understood. We will also ask in more detail which private investors are expected to invest in the fund and whether it is expected that any private investors making a capital injection into the fund will also take on the same risk as the State, which will obviously be particularly important in relation to any losses. So, as the points I have listed should show, there are a number of areas on which we should have a closer and more thorough discussion in committee. However, with that said, we in the SF are in principle positive about the draft law and the basic intentions of the Social Fund. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183142	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183147	I just want to know very briefly if SF was unable to get it from the Dansk Folkeparti has a limit on how large a return an investor should be able to withdraw from a project.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183201-2	I can't answer that here. In other words, it is a debate that will be in the individual cases. I just think it is important that when we talk about this experiment as it is, we should also draw some lessons from it. And one of the advantages of being in the circle of agreements about this is that you have the possibility of influencing it and adjusting it if it turns out that some of the pitfalls that I have also described and perhaps also what the rapporteur is asking for are going to be a problem. And if you are not part of the agreement, you are outside that possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183234	Then we say thank you to Mrs Tine Torp, and as no one else has asked to speak, we move on to the Minister for Public Innovation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183250	Thank you for that, and thank you to all the rapporteurs for the speeches and the basically positive reception of the bill all around the Parliamentary Chamber on the establishment of the Social Investment Fund Act, which we agreed on in connection with the rate pool negotiations last year, and which I also think we have subsequently had a very good process and dialogue on along the way. With the Fund, we are establishing a new framework for partnerships between the public, private and voluntary sectors in order to support, in this way, that we can also be better able to put past and more preventive action in the major welfare areas. The Fund must contribute to the dissemination and development of early and holistic interventions in the major welfare areas, with a view, first and foremost, to the success of achieving better results for citizens and, at the same time, to reducing public expenditure. Social investment programmes are not some miracle cure that is being responded to all the challenges in our society. Nor will they be suitable for use in all areas. But I believe that it can hopefully become part of the answer as a new tool that we are now getting in the box and which we are now getting tested in a Danish context. Because, as one of the previous rapporteurs has said, there are also a number of foreign experiences with what is called social impact bonds and where I have also said from the outset that we should not make an English model or a Swedish model or something quite different. We must develop our own Danish model in a Danish context that we think fit in. As part of its work with the Fund, it must create more knowledge about the effects of early interventions and, at the same time, attract new capital by supporting private actors to invest in preventive interventions. The Social Fund will come if we take it right forward to help set up a whole new market in Denmark and thus be a fund that can attract new capital and support that we, as a society, invest more in long-term and more preventive interventions. The benefits from the projects must be reinvested so that a basis is created for a sustained and structural focus on prevention. And as regards the themes to be committed and invested in relation to the fund, it is true, as the SF rapporteur also indicated, that we have agreed in the pool agreement that it will be decided annually in the negotiations on the Finance Act, and thus that we, as parties, must have a dialogue on the specific areas. In this way, it is also ensured that we, as elected politicians, are the ones who set the overall framework for what kind of welfare efforts should be invested in and in which welfare areas should be developed and matured. At the same time, I think it is essential that the draft law here also provides the fund with a certain amount of room for manoeuvre within a clear legal framework. In addition to the creation of the Social Investment Fund, the draft law also proposes the regulation of a number of important elements of the Fund's operation. The Act determines the types of operations which the Fund will be able to undertake. In order to provide the Fund with an adequate toolbox for achieving its objectives, it is proposed to allow the Fund to make a number of financial arrangements. This applies, among other things, to: the possibility of granting grants to public authorities wishing to experiment with the partnerships, granting loans, capital injections, the formation of companies, etc. The law also states that the fund must make an annual statement on its activities to the Minister for Innovation and will, of course, subsequently be forwarded to the Danish Parliament. In his opening speech, the Socialist rapporteur said that if we do this right, it could be a motorway to get more money into our welfare society. I hope that this will be a motorway for us to succeed with more for the benefit of more people, and so that we will be better at doing what we politicians have all been talking about for so many years: putting in earlier, more preventive and more holistic. That is what the goal is for me and with a smile on my face: I am quite sure that in the end we all agree on that among us politicians. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and, as I said, for what I think has been a very good process and cooperation in the work here. As I have already announced, following on from the meeting that I had the opportunity to hold with the parties of the Folketing not long ago, we have to follow up a number of discussions on the various outstanding issues which remain. We must work on these matters together and look at them more closely, as we have agreed. And, of course, I make myself available in relation to the further examination of the draft law, including, of course, answering and discussing the issues and questions which have already been announced here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183811	In any case, there is one question which needs to be answered before the Minister is fully finished, and that is from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183818	Thank you. The Minister is asked by Berlingske on 2 April whether it is not gambling with our well-being to let private investors invest. In addition to what we are already delivering today, these are bets. This is also happening in recognition of the fact that we are spending huge sums of money today to launch various interventions without them working. ▪ I think it seems frightening, and I can also see that it is frightening that we have an incredible number of social efforts that we do not actually know the effect of today. But wouldn't the Minister try to explain to me that now I'm a little new in this? How exactly are private funds helping to give the answer to what future social efforts are supposed to be? How exactly is it that it is with private investors that we find those answers? Because we already know today. We know very well when we ask NGOs and when we ask our public employees what works. Is what we find out here really not exactly what is also a financial return?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023183922	At any rate, there was nothing in what I was so directly quoted in Berlingske, with which I disagree, nor today. And that is certainly a good starting point to start with. So can we say: is it by succeeding with efforts, for example, to ensure that more young people come out of the cash assistance system and succeed in getting into permanent employment, crucial whether a banknote is blue or green? No. What is crucial is, after all, what sort of efforts are being made. And what is new in this is that we are now establishing the opportunity to create new forms of partnerships in Denmark, partnerships between the public, private and voluntary sectors. I believe that by taking new paths we can make a difference in relation to succeeding with more of what I actually sense that a broad majority, not to say all parties in this Parliament, would like us to be better at. But it is clear that one could also have chosen to sit back and say: we will continue to do tomorrow, as we did yesterday. I just don't think that makes much difference. So we also have to be ready to go new ways at times if we want to look for the new answers to how we can succeed better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184037	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184039	After all, the idea is that the fund should work in partnerships. It's a little unclear when you read the bill how these partnerships should look exactly. There is not a sharp distinction, as the SF rapporteur also said, between NGOs and private companies, which can easily create partnerships. However, what I would like to hear about in addition to that is whether it is possible for the fund to carry out investments or to create partnerships which consist solely of cooperation between a municipality and an NGO organisation, or should there be a private investor in addition?
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184119	In principle, the Fund could do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184126	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184130	That is exactly the last part, because it is one of the places where I have also been a little concerned about the way in which the comments have been put together. I am quite uneasy about the political agreement, because there I think we have been extremely clear and, by the way, we have found a very good way forward. There are two foundations. We refer to it as the And just as for the question that Enhedslisten raises, there is a little looser framework for what private people can do because it should not yield returns. It's the small fund. We have called it the small and the large fund in the way we have talked about it when we have agreed things. But it is just to say that for the Social Democrats it has been absolutely crucial that the large fund, in other words, where it provides returns, does not create a motorway for privatisations. I would just like to ask the Minister to make that clear. In other words, if you have a desire to privatise public welfare, you are not getting any closer or further away from this bill as far as the big fund is concerned. As far as the small fund is concerned, you're starting to be able to make all kinds of chopsticks. On the other hand, it is experimental and not something that is part of the great welfare agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184243	Well, first of all, I hope we're not going to do anything that's quite crazy or what was said. We are now setting up one fund, but it is true, as the rapporteur says, that it is a two-legged fund. One leg is about how we can be better at spreading what we know to work and thus ensure that more people benefit from what we know to work and that it will work. And the second leg is about how we can go new ways and thereby be better at succeeding, for example. ensuring that young people who have been in crime do not commit new crime when they come out or that people who are in the high risk zone to develop diabetes do not actually develop the disease itself. It is the two legs that are in the fund: a leg of distribution and a leg of development. I really think that the whole talk that has been about privatisation is deeply irrelevant to me when it comes to the fact that we have to succeed with some efforts towards people who are typically having a real, really difficult time, and thus to be better able to also go new ways to ensure that people outside the labour market or people in massive social problems have a better chance of becoming part of the Community also in the end. And that the private voluntary sector is involved, I think, in the end, only makes us succeed with more than we would succeed with if we only did everything for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184412	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184413	But it already is. Well, a foster family is private, so you can say that the private sector is already there. The cuckoo thing just has to be understood as experimental things, and we like that, so it wasn't meant as a scold, but only as that there's some of it that's experimental. However, it is just important for me to make it clear, even when we say here, that in the discussion about whether there should be private actors in the welfare society, the fund does not do so from time to time. There are private players today, and there will be in the future too, and there is an ideological battle in the Parliament, where the construction of this fund does not happen from time to time. In other words, it is not the case that that construction in itself requires more private or vice versa more municipal, which means that the ideological struggle is unchanged and therefore also reflected in the fact that all parties except Enhedslisten are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184503	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184505	With the clear answer, there is no more compared to the Minister. At any rate, no more people have asked to speak, and so I note that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184526	With the long title, the debate has been opened and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184602	Thank you, sir. President. L 72 is a consequence of the trialogue negotiations of October 2017 to strengthen adult, continuing and continuing education. It is of course no secret that we have found that adult and continuing training has fallen sharply, and there is not the search for continuing training that many of us had expected. We are at a time when developments are moving stronger and stronger in the labour market, when robots have made their entry, where there are new forms of production and where companies or parts of companies' production are being moved out of the country because they cannot sell their products. Why? Well, we can't compete on pay, but we can compete on the way we produce. We must produce with the latest techniques in order to be able to cope. New forms of production come into the labour market, development is going very fast, and this requires us to constantly improve our skills in the Danish labour market in order to resist competition from cheap countries around the world, so it is also more important that we in the labour market in the future improve and further train ourselves to keep up with, to keep our welfare society, to create jobs. It is therefore also a good thing that the social partners have helped to make their proposals for adult and further training in the future, in other words how companies should look and how they should train their employees in the future. The legislative proposal must also make it more transparent for users. This applies both to employers who have to have employees on courses or further training, so that it fits in with the company's development, but also if it is an employee who wants to improve his skills or if it is an unemployed person who needs to be trained to move on to the labour market. It will also be possible to combine labour market training with other labour market training courses, and I see an advantage in this in the labour market of the future. I believe that our labour market education will look very different in five years, in ten years' time. After all, we know that developments are going stronger and stronger, because we can see it if we look back on how developments have been over the past 100 years and that it will go much stronger for the next 10, 15, 20 years. In the future, it must be possible for companies to direct their continuing training towards and to the companies if it fits in with the reality of both the company and the employees. An up-to-date concept of development and management in the whole field of education in the labour market has also been set up to follow developments in everyday life. It is also proposed that labour market training be offered every four years and throughout the country so that they can follow developments. So all in all, it is good that there has been a new piece of legislation and new measures in this area. We must equip ourselves for the future of the labour market so that we can continue to produce and create jobs. We will vote in favour of the bill and I will say from the Radical Left that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184942	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023184955	Thank you very much. We in the Danish People's Party believe that education should be for life. This is the starting point when you take a qualification. You have to use it your whole life. But there is also a need for continuing training in relation to the many demands for new competences that are constantly being placed on us in the labour market. So whether you are unskilled or you are skilled, you must have the opportunity to continuously improve your skills. We never get too old to get a little better at going on a course, learning new subjects and learning new technologies, new languages. It can be a lot of things. For the labour market is constantly changing. There are new technologies, new markets that are constantly gaining ground, and it is important that we have skilled staff to respond to the changing challenges that the labour market presents to us. The draft law, which we are discussing here, is based on the tripartite agreement agreed by the parties in autumn 2017 to strengthen adult, continuing training efforts. This means, among other things, that new subjects are being created in fvu, and these include: on fvu-digital and fvu-English. I look forward very much to it being used. Then it will be, among other things. also possible to combine labour market training with other labour market training courses, sub-elements of other labour market training courses, other eligible courses or revenue-covered enterprise. There will be total tendering rounds for labour market training every four years, and then labour market training will become national. I would also like to mention something really important for us in the Danish People's Party, namely that there will be mandatory tests in labour market education. All in all, the tripartite agreement in question contains many good elements, which are reflected in inter alia. This bill. It offers really good and better opportunities to train throughout your life. And on this basis, we in the Danish People's Party can recommend that the bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023185229	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023185240	Thank you. The draft law, which we are now discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber, is about amendments to a number of laws which, overall, aim to translate the remaining parts of the tripartite agreement concluded by the government and the social partners last autumn. In the Left, we are very concerned about ensuring a strong and flexible adult, continuing training system, and we also intend with this bill to create an improved adult and continuing education system that meets the Danes who want to be trained in their subjects, and the Danes who want to change subjects or even change the industry for that matter. As the previous rapporteur also said, it is true that we constantly need to adapt to developments and also adapt to what is demanded in the labour market, and therefore it is very important that we also have systems that meet both what private companies are asking for and what employees want to be able to train themselves. Hopefully, when this bill is soon adopted, I am sure that we will take a very good step in the right direction. More specifically, this draft law introduces a number of changes which will help to ensure a modern adult and continuing education system. The draft law proposes, among other things, that there should be improved adaptation opportunities within the content, duration and type of organisation of labour market training, so that we can say that we are now also adapting the services that employees are given the opportunity to take advantage of. One of the things that I am very pleased about, especially because we have to recognise that we are in a digital age, is that with the agreement here we are actually ensuring that two new subjects are added to the existing offers in the field of preparatory adult education. It's the subjects digital task solution and English that with this bill will be an opportunity. It's both subjects that I think are really important. Whether it's about having digital skills or linguistic skills, it's something I believe that a lot of people will benefit from. With that, I can conclude by saying that, of course, the Left will vote in favour of this bill, and again I have promised to greet Conservatives and say that they will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023185539	Thank you for that. No one has brief comments, so we move on to Jacob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023185547	Thank you. The draft law, as the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, is the implementation of the tripartite agreement, which now has a year's time on the back and which aims to change the adult and continuing training system so as to strengthen the quality of training, increase activity and create a more flexible framework for labour market training. It is extremely important for skilled and unskilled workers and for companies that we have a system of continuing training in which, on the one hand, there are high-quality training and, on the other, flexibility in the system, so that it is possible relatively quickly and relatively unbureaucratically to be admitted and to get started with the continuing training required by the individual and the workplace. At the same time, it is important that our continuing training system offers to the many who lack basic skills that are not directly linked to a particular field of work. The Fvu, i.e. the preparatory adult education, has been an educational success here, and it is therefore very positive that it is now being set up to expand the range of subjects, so that it will also include a digital subject and Fgu-English. We have noted in the Enhedslisten that there is overall satisfaction with the tripartite agreement and with the bill. It may be said that it is perhaps not so strange that the trade unions are satisfied, because they themselves have reached the agreement which the draft law unfolds here. But we note that there is also considerable satisfaction among the educational institutions. We also support the proposal in the Enhedslisten, but I would like to emphasise that we would actually have liked to have seen a tripartite agreement and legislation that was much more ambitious. There is a huge need for a better continuing training system, which is a huge need for more funding for the whole amu system if we are to ensure the necessary increase in training efforts. And it has to be said that labour market training has been severely affected in recent years and has been economically starved. We will not solve these problems with either the tripartite agreement or the draft law. I would also like to say that we have noted that in several of the hearings there are concerns about various parts of the proposal. I note that the social and health schools are concerned that the new tests will fill so much on relatively short courses. I note that the Training Association is concerned about the new procurement rules because it is feared that they will lead to increased competition between the various providers of the Amu courses. For many years I have been working on the Amu area, and I can see the struggle that may exist between the institutions. I think we should take both concerns very seriously and I hope that both the Ministry and the trade committees, i.e. the trade unions themselves and the employers, will keep a very close eye on whether the concerns expressed in the two consultations have anything on them. I would also like to say that I find it incredibly regrettable that the new fvu subjects will be reserved for employment and will not be an offer to the many unemployed, which may, of course, inevitably require new digital skills and skills in English. I fully agree with that, too, the Ministry has made it very clear that the tripartite agreement limits the changes to those employed, but that did not have to prevent the legislators from going further. I think it would have been very good if the offer of the new fvu subjects had also been aimed at the unemployed. Finally, I think we should be sensitive to the comments made by the main organizations LO and FTF on the possibilities of receiving SFU, i.e. Statens Adult Training Support, when completing the two new fvu subjects. I fully agree with the two main organisations that the proposed model for the organization of training is too inflexible and can in itself prevent some from implementing the new training courses, so I would urge the Minister, as the main organisations do, to look again at the amendments suggested by the main organisations, so that there will be a flexible opportunity to carry out the new fvu subjects, whether full-time or part-time. With those comments, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190056	That's why we're grateful to Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. And then it's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190105	Thank you for that, President. Bill L 72 is the final implementation of an agreement between the government and the social partners, which was concluded for approx. 1 year ago, 29 October 2017. Overall, the draft law aims to improve the existing system of adult, continuing training. And that is a purpose which, in LA's view, can only be welcomed. I myself live in western Jutland, where the classical industry takes up a great deal, and not least there you know everything about the need for employees to constantly develop their qualifications. And that is also why the social partners • the state slash the public and the employer and the worker • usually work as well together there as they have done in the context of the agreement here. Specifically, it will be, among other things. • the proposal for a combination of labour market training courses. It is proposed that tendering rounds can be held together every four years. Compulsory tests will be introduced. And then there are a number of administrative and bureaucratic improvements, not least in the case of employers' training contributions, the so-called AUB. These are a number of good and well-prepared proposals that will ensure the future of the adult and continuing education system. Of course, as I have already said, it is due diligence that we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190300	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190309	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also positive about this bill. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that for the Danish People's Party it is a matter of training for life. That's what we think. When we presented our government programme in connection with Uffe Elbæk running as Prime Minister's candidate, we made a number of new descriptions, you might say, of the ministries, one of which was the Ministry of Lifelong Curiosity. A lot of people thought it was a little funny, because what is it? But that is what today is the Ministry of Education or Education. But the point of that name is precisely that education is lifelong and that hopefully, as people, we are all curious all our lives and therefore must also have the opportunity to retrain when needed. That is why this bill is a good example of a need that is being met not only by the Folketing and the government, but by the social partners. In this way, the tripartite agreements are a fantastic construction in which we work together to find out how to solve the common challenges that we have. We are very pleased that the flexibility, which has been mentioned several times up here from the platform, so I do not need to repeat it, has been incorporated into this draft law, so that in future it will be more possible to put together, for example. different training courses and merge them in relation to the rigidity that may be in the system today. So we're glad about that. On the other hand, we are a little aware of some of the same things that Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned: the tendering rounds, in relation to whether they can create competition between providers; and, above all, the mandatory tests, which some here from the platform emphasised as something very positive. Perhaps we are a little more concerned about this, not because we do not believe that there should be testing and different forms of certificates, as there are today, but to introduce a national standard for what everyone has to live up to or everyone has to apply, we are not sure that is appropriate, because it should actually be more up to the individual local institution what kind of test or examination it is or what is to be applied. We are not generally in favour of this kind of centralisation, so we do not like that point and will be aware of it in the further legislative work. But we are positive about the bill. We also suggested, at some point in the alternative, that we might consider a year of curiosity when, as people on the labour market, we might sometimes take some time to retrain ourselves. So that is in line with what we are talking about today, namely that there is a great need not only for those who are in work, for continuing training, but also for those who are in work. Jakob Silverhøj mentioned, with some unemployed people who need further training. I think that, as a society at all, we should try to think about how we can better set up both our education and the labour market so that we can all change course once in a while, if that is what we need. In those words, however, I would say that we are in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190618	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then that is the last rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190627	The flexible and dynamic Danish labour market is the key to the welfare society. It is in private and public workplaces that the gold is excavated. Danish workers and companies are skilled at adapting to new times and producing goods and services that we didn't even know we couldn't live without. This requires good, broad and solid initial training. But just as we say that people learn as long as they live, one can also say about companies that they only live as long as they learn. That is why it is so crucial to make it possible to have continuous adult, continuing training. It is strong when the social partners, in cooperation with the Folketing, break the way for more relevant training. As I see it, a little has happened from the time the agreement was signed until it can now be seen that the law itself is being implemented. Like the rest of you, I've had a number of inquiries, including... As regards the lack of opportunities for the engineering schools to offer further technical and continuing training. In their hearing answer, I find it somewhat worrying when you read: "It is noted that the proposed procurement process means that the professional academies' first right to offer technical academy and diploma programmes continues. In practice, priority means that a given professional academy will be able to block the provision of separate modules at a given engineering school. It is the opinion of the organisations that the proposed process and priority are in conflict with the desire for a broad and dynamic supply of continuing and continuing training. In addition, the engineering schools and the maritime centres have technical equipment such as refrigeration systems, simulators, robots, etc., which gives them the best opportunities to provide high-quality technical further and further training. Finally, it is important to note that schools train machine masters who are highly employed in industry and the installation industry. It is, of course, an inquiry that has been written by among others. Dansk Metal, Dansk El-forbund, Dansk Byggeri, Blik- og Tør Arbejdsforbundet og Rectoren for Rektorkollegiet for de maritimeuddannelser og vice-director for Tekniske. I think it is a request which is worth taking. Then I think it should also be said that in the future it is expected that you should be on the job until you are in the mid-seventies, and it certainly also requires that it becomes attractive to change the industry during your life so as to avoid one-sided wear and tear. That is also why we need to provide much more training. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190920	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. So we have reached the Minister, and that is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023190929	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill, which is the second concrete implementation of the tripartite agreement concluded by the government and the social partners one year ago in October last year. Adult and further training is an important item on the government's agenda, because we need a flexible continuing training market in Denmark, not only for the sake of society, not only for the sake of companies, but also for the sake of individual Danes. We must ensure that all Danes are able to do well in a rapidly changing world, both the unskilled and those with a shorter or longer education. It is good for the individual when technology can help to make the work less grueling and more efficient. But it also requires that the individual can seize the opportunities offered by development. Then we will have to adapt the training courses and rules to the needs and opportunities of the time, thereby creating a dynamic, modern and simpler system of continuing training offers that can be developed and adapted on an ongoing basis for the benefit of both companies and employees. We are now doing so with this bill. As I said, this bill is the second part of the implementation in the Ministry of Education of the tripartite agreement of October last year, and the draft law consists of a number of different measures. I will briefly outline some of them here. Firstly, we are strengthening the flexibility and supply of labour market training. It comes, among other things. to take place by creating better opportunities to adapt content, duration and way of holding. There will also be a requirement for tender authorisations to be awarded by tendering rounds, which must take place at least every four years. In addition, freer access and increased competition will be created among providers of labour market training, with all invitations to tender as from the next round of invitations to tender becoming national. At the same time, compulsory tests are introduced in labour market training. In this way, more people can document their competences and thus increase their mobility and adaptability in the labour market. Secondly, we propose to strengthen the basic skills of adults Danes by developing existing services in the field of preparatory adult education with two new subjects. The two subjects are digital task solving and English, which can be offered in a targeted manner in relation to the actual demand of the employees and companies. Thirdly, we make access to the veu allowance easier and less bureaucratic. We do this by bringing together the administration of the veu subsidies into the employers' training contributions. As it is today, the scheme is administered by the A-banks, the Ministry of Education and the Amu providers. An overall approach will make the scheme much clearer and this will mean that more participants and companies will actually be seeking the compensation to which they are entitled. It is the intention to create a digital solution in which compensation and subsidies are paid in one case. In this way, we also live up to the political agreement on digitising clear legislation. I would like to thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. Continuing training is important for Denmark, but first of all it is important for each of the Danes who now receive a stronger and more flexible offer. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023191252	Thank you to the Minister for Education. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181023191308	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 October 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
