ParlaMint-DK_20180202100015	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100022	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100036	Thank you. With Law L 130, we raise the production school allowance from 1 January 2018 to the level of the upcoming school allowance for non-parents on the preparatory basic education. Of course we support this in the Social Democratic Party, because the production schools are bleeding. With the Finance Act 2017 the government together with the Danish Folkeparti production school service significantly reduced. We were very opposed to this in the Social Democratic Party, because this has meant an immediate flight from the production schools. The reason for reducing the production school allowance was that it had to be harmonised with the SU system. In fact, it was all about saving money. The common reasoning has led to very different levels of benefit. The result is that the production school allowance is now significantly lower than both the cash benefits rates and the SU rates. Young people have thus been withdrawn from training and into the cash aid system, and the production schools have been brought into acute crisis as a result of the heavy saving. With the savings in the 2017 Finance Act, the school allowance is now significantly lower than the education aid that young people can get at job centres. Therefore, many people choose the production school from and instead sign up for unemployment in the municipality. The young people themselves state that the low level of benefit is the direct reason why they do not start the production school course that they would actually like to start. Of course, the incentive cannot be intended to draw vulnerable young people away from preparatory training and into the cash assistance system. Hopefully this will be corrected now, and it is only a pity that young people and the country's production schools should suffer so badly. But in those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100218	Thank you. There is one point from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100230	Thank you. I would just like to take this opportunity to raise such a teasing question. I do not know whether the Socialist rapporteur can say a little about how we voted on this in the context of the financial law procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100250	Now it is the case that in the context of the Finance Act it is very, very broad. There is no doubt that if only the production school service had been set up, we would, of course, have voted in favour. It was so broad an agreement that it is clear that there were many things that we could not vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100306	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100308	Thank you. I would also like to stress that I am very pleased that we have gathered so many parties who are voting in favour of this bill, because I think it is something that we all think is very good. And that is precisely the basis of the good FGU agreement that we had made. But in fact it was in the context of the Finance Act that this part was put in place, and I would actually remind you that the Social Democrats voted against it. And that's really just what I need confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100340	In other words, when the production school service was reduced to what was called the SU-like level on 1 December 2016, it was actually the case that the Social Democratic Party was shouting very loudly. This is something that causes the production school pupils to be in dire straits, and there are very, very many production school pupils who have stopped, as I said just now in my rapporteur's speech. That is why it is quite right to increase the benefit now, and what we have actually decided together in relation to the forthcoming FGD is exactly the rate that is now coming, and we can only be satisfied with that. But it is only a pity that a whole year has passed when the production schools have bled as they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100421	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100431	It is so nice to hear someone from the Social Democratic Party saying that the rest of us are doing something right. I just wanted to say that first. But this bill is about raising school fees for the country's production school students. The school allowance was reduced with the 2017 Finance Act. The government at that time was very keen to reduce the benefit, and in the Danish People's Party we went to negotiations and did what we could to minimise the extent of the government's proposal to lower the benefit. At the time, in the Danish People's Party, we ensured that the benefit would not be reduced as much as the government wanted, just as we in the Danish People's Party ensured that school benefits could continue to be paid to young people under 18 years of age. Subsequently, at the production schools in the country, we have seen a decline in the number of pupils. We do not know for sure where these young people have gone instead, and although there may be a fluctuating number of pupils in the production schools, we in the Danish People's Party still had a fear that the young people rejected the production school offer, among other things. because of the lower level of benefit, which had thus given them an increased financial incentive to receive training aid instead. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party have recognised that it was not appropriate to lower the school allowance. It is important for us in the Danish People's Party that young people receive the best offer for each young person. In autumn 2017, a majority here in the Danish Parliament then enters into an agreement that a new preparatory initial training, also called the FGU, will be established. The country's production schools and thus the students become part of the new FGU. In addition, we have decided that the future students in the new FGU must have a performance that is at the level of education aid, and that is precisely to prevent the FGU from being chosen because of the level of the benefit. As a result, the new FGD benefit is also higher than the benefit which the electricity generators in the production schools receive today. However, the new FGU performance does not apply until 2019. This means that the grant for 2018 will continue to be the one that was adopted by the 2017 Finance Act, provided that we do not change that fact. In the recognition that it is important that the school grant is at the level of the education aid, we in the Danish People's Party therefore also went to financial negotiations with the clear requirement that we should have raised the school allowance again. We came through with our demands, and that is why we are dealing with this bill today, so that formalities are put in place and benefits are increased. I had the very great pleasure of visiting Klemmenstrupgård Production College in Køge last week. Here a very happy principal could tell that they are already experiencing locally that the number of pupils at the school is increasing and that they attributed it to the increased benefit. See, that's really good news. On the basis of what I have told you, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202100818	Thank you. First of all, I can say that the Left is going to vote in favour of this bill to adjust the production school performance. After all, the proposal is based on the agreement we made last autumn on preparatory initial training, an agreement that we in the Left are very pleased and very proud of. The new preparatory initial training must help to help some of the many challenged young people who have lost their way in this jungle we currently have of various educational opportunities. With this preparatory initial training, we will create a more manageable system, which will hopefully make even more young people clear in relation to what they want to do forward in life. In connection with the work on this agreement on the new preparatory initial training, the parties also decided to increase the production school allowance to the same amount as the school allowance for non-parents in the new preparatory initial training. However, it was only in connection with the Finance Act itself that things got right. I think it makes very good sense for us to get these things in place together with the agreement on the new preparatory initial training. It is really, really important that we get even more control of the future that young people should be helped on their way to both being able to choose to get started with youth education or, for that reason, getting a foothold on the labour market. The production schools can, of course, help prepare pupils for working life, and young people also need a good hand in the back. So I believe that both the fact that we are now getting the benefit up, but not least that we are also getting a new education in this area, will help to ensure that hopefully many more young people will get well through their lives and that they will gain a foothold either in youth education or, as I said, in the labour market. Finally, I would like to stress that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101042	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101051	This was rightly met with massive protests when, in the autumn of 2016, the government put forward its proposal to reduce school attendance for the country's production school pupils. It was pointed out from quite a number of quarters that the deterioration in the benefits would push many young people so hard economically that they would opt out of production schools and that this risked having serious consequences for the operation of many schools. We do not always want to be right, but I would say that this time it kept the predictions to such an extent, and we have seen a decline in the number of pupils, which has led to the resignation of teachers in many schools, and this has meant that more production schools are currently facing quite considerable economic problems. It has to be said that it is foolish that the government, together with the DF, has in this way prevented a large group of young people from carrying out a training course in a production school, and at the same time it must be said that this has been an unfair strain on the introduction of basic preparatory training. This has led to a significant drop in the number of pupils, thereby weakening the production schools in a situation where they have to play and, fortunately, play a very central role and have very important tasks to perform in the construction of the new preparatory initial training. In short, this has been an incredibly bad course, and the draft law here must also be said to represent a recognition by the government and, I understood from the Danish People's Party a moment ago, that it was a mistake to carry out such a major deterioration in school performance. It is therefore a good thing that the agreement on preparatory initial training has found a level of school provision which is, after all, somewhat higher than the reduced production school allowance, and it is good that the proposal we are discussing today provides for a certain recovery of the school allowance for the production school pupils, so that the pupils who are going to undertake a production school education will have a slightly better financial situation towards the introduction of the new preparatory initial training. I think that, although it is an excellent proposal here today, I find it difficult to see that there is any reason to commend the government for dealing with this matter. But the proposal before us is therefore an increase in the level of performance we have today, and so, of course, the Enhedslisten can support the proposal. I would like to say hello to my colleague, Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark from SF who cannot be present today and say that SF can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101337	Thank you. There is a new rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101346	Thank you for the floor. It is not so often that the examination of a bill lasts longer than the time that the bill will last, but we are close to it today. I must prevent us from making it all the way up at the same time, so I can just say that LA naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101408	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101427	Thank you. Well, I'll also try to be very brief. We are voting in favour and we are in favour of changing school services. We have seen that the production schools, which have already been under severe pressure, have been put in a situation where they have become even more pressured and have had a decline of around 30%. in the number of pupils, and I would therefore say that we are in favour of making it more attractive to have a practical education as well. We want there to be equal recognition of the training we have, including those with more craftsmanship. We must do everything we can to get young people to choose those courses and to keep them in those courses. I am therefore pleased that the Danish People's Party has chosen to change its mind and that today we can stand here and change what has been quite unreasonable in relation to the pupils in the production schools. So we are positive and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101540	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101551	For the Radical Left, in the negotiations on the new preparatory initial training, it was essential that the school allowance should be at least at a level such as that of the educational aid to the educational establishments. Fortunately, many of us thought so, including the Danish People's Party, and we were also parties which, following the conclusion of the FGU, were out to propose that the future school grant was introduced as early as 2018, at least the level of it. We are therefore pleased with this bill, which is just proposing that the benefit be set up as early as January 2018. We are very happy about this from the radical side, and of course we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101634	Thank you. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101642	Thank you very much. In the autumn, we decided to establish a new and comprehensive preparatory training offer, the preparatory initial training, the FGU, for people under 25 years of age. We did so because we want to strengthen the efforts of young people who are not ready for youth education. The new education also comes with a new allowance, the school allowance. With this bill, we are now raising the production school allowance to the school allowance for non-parents. In this way, the production school allowance will be at the same level as the future performance of the preparatory initial training. That is sensible and natural, also considering that 30%. fewer pupils have applied to the country's production schools. We are not interested in this because the production schools must be there to help young people clarify their interests and abilities before choosing education and jobs. The Conservative People's Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101744	Thank you. Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202101752	Thank you to the parties which support this bill, which will have an impact on young people who are going to a production school right now. Last autumn the government, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left entered into an agreement on a reform of the entire preparatory area. Since then, the parties of the Folketing have signed the agreement. This is a very good reform, which will have a great impact on thousands of young people who need extra help to move on in education and jobs. All the preparatory offers are combined into one offer, which means fewer misdirections and a better framework for young people. The overall aim of the reform is for young people to move forward in training for skills or to achieve permanent employment. I believe that preparatory initial training will help a great many young people move on in life, but as it is with all reforms, they are not being implemented with a fingertips. It takes time, and it has to be well planned. As part of the reform agreement, a whole new type of benefit is being established for pupils, namely the school allowance. For pupils 18 years of age and over, this benefit corresponds to the levels of the rates of training aid for educational staff. The first students can start the new preparatory initial training in August 2019. This means that there is a period during which the pupils in the current production schools will receive a lower benefit than the FGU's school allowance. The purpose of this bill is therefore to raise the production school allowance to the FGU level, among others. with the aim of keeping pupils in schools. In this context, I would like to stress that it is important for young people to be provided with a service so that they can manage financially, but that it must not be the economy that is the incentive for young people in this context. The production schools and, soon, the preparatory initial training are not the competence-giving youth training courses. This is a boost in the right direction. The government has a clear ambition to create strong incentives for young people to take a competence-giving education. It is therefore also important that young people do not opt for a production school for economic reasons. The bill is based on the 2018 Finance Act and we in the government have endeavoured to ensure that the new benefit can be paid out as soon as possible. We do this in order to increase the activity of the production schools and to ensure that there is no gap in the level of benefits between now and the start of the FGD. I therefore welcome the fact that yesterday the Committee on Finance adopted an act whereby the production school allowance could be increased immediately and retroactively from 1 January. I would like to mention that there has been a question raised as to whether a dependent allowance should also be introduced for the school allowance. To this I can say that it is not possible, as it is today, to receive maintenance allowances in ordinary production school courses. Therefore, no pupils in the country's production schools are disadvantaged by the fact that the possibility of a dependent supplement is introduced only after the FGU enters into force on 1 August 2019. In addition, heads of production schools account for a very small proportion of the total activity. In my opinion, the introduction of parental allowances to the production schools does not solve the specific challenge we are currently facing in reversing the negative development of activity in the production schools. That is why it is my fundamental position to stick to the agreement we have concluded with the 2018 Finance Act to raise the school allowance to the level of non-parents at the FGU. On the other hand, the draft law, among other things. Taking into account the views expressed in the consultation round, adjusted to ensure that the pupils admitted in 2016 will continue to receive higher school benefits in force in 2016. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the good debate we have had in this Chamber today and looking forward to any questions you may have during the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102137	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102152	The debate is open, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102212	Thank you. In social democracy we have nothing against private schools. We think it can be a fine addition to primary school. We also agree that there are places in the country's sparsely populated areas where local primary schools close, and then a private school opens instead. On the other hand, there must be private schools as an alternative to primary school. Therefore, we find it a problem that the government and the Danish People's Party are now glorifying the private schools and thus creating a distortion in our society. And it is also a little strange that the Danish People's Party is helping to give several million kroner directly to so-called Muslim free schools, which do not contribute at all to integration. This is strange, and it also applies to some of the Muslim free schools, which the Danish People's Party wants to close itself, which are now getting even more money. We want to reduce the coupling rate to 71 per cent. and not set it up so that you can still go away to a private school, but that it is the primary school, which is our common school in Denmark and where we meet each other across cultural divides, so that there is a greater understanding of each other. Therefore, primary school must be the foundation of our community and private school an alternative to primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102325	There is one point from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102328	Thank you. With this bill, it is actually the case that we are now going to help students with special needs. In fact, with this bill, we are helping to take responsibility in a spirit of solidarity so that children with special needs can also have a better chance of going to a private school or a free school. Normally, I believe that this is something that the Social Democrats have often said in public at least, that is to say, that they want both private and free schools to take greater social responsibility. And in this way, we will ensure that money is earmarked for children with special needs, and that will also increase the possibility of increased responsibility. That is why I am surprised that the Social Democrats are not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102431	Well, that money could be earmarked for primary school instead. A lot of weak students are already being lifted up who are having a hard time. It is strange that it is the private schools and not the primary school that are already carrying out a huge task that needs to be given the money. We can always discuss how much money private schools should have in relation to how much social responsibility they promise. But no matter what, it's the private schools that get paid this time, and the primary school gets nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102452	Matthiesen Anni.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102454	Now it's still gone that if you choose a primary school, it's 100 percent that gets covered. If you choose a free school or private school, it's 76 percent. So the parents still take the wallet out of their pocket to pay the difference. I still wonder why the Social Democratic Party will not help to ensure that pupils with special needs and different types of diagnoses also have the opportunity to actually choose a free or private school. In other words, social democracy tends to support the same treatment and equality of treatment for disabled children as well. However, the Social Democrats maintain that there must be discrimination, that is to say that there must be no possibility for children with special needs to choose a free school. I would like to make a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102555	Well, that's wrong. There are children with special needs in free schools, and in this country we actually have free schools that lift social responsibility, and then we have some who do not. But I don't understand that. I mean, how much does the connection rate have to be up before you're satisfied in the Left? Then you could put it up to 88 percent. 98 per cent or 98 per cent. I guess there's a reason why there's private schools, that's because there's something you have to pay for yourself. And I think it's pretty high in advance. In the social democracy we would like it to be put down, because we still believe that it is the primary school which is the most important and which is lifting this country in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102626	Then there is a question from Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102629	As a taxpayer, you pay 100 per cent. of what it costs to run primary school, and then you pay 24 per cent. of what it costs to run a private school on top, so you pay really, really, really strongly if you go to private school. That is why I simply cannot understand the hetz of the Social Democratic Party against the free schools. Can the rapporteur say anything more about the origin of this hetz?
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102654	It is not like running a hetz because you disagree with how much money a private school should have. Then the Liberal Alliance was supposed to imagine that all the money was covered or 98 percent. or 95%. It is quite legitimate to have an opinion on how much money the primary school should have and how much money the private schools should have. As it is now in the proposal put forward by the government and the Danish People's Party, it is private schools that receive money, while the primary schools do not receive any.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102717	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102719	However, the rapporteur acknowledges that a parent who has his child in a free school pays 100%. of what it costs to run primary school, tax and on top of it a contribution to have your child in a free school?
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102738	It is, of course, not to drive any hetz against private schools because you have an opinion on how much money they should have from the public. Of course you pay something yourself, it's perfectly reasonable when you choose something private. We just think primary school is the most important thing. We have nothing against private schools, but it is a perfectly legitimate discussion to have that, too, I think that there are different views on in here among the parties • how many percent are to be paid by the public, and there we just say that we think that whether you live in Copenhagen or live in the country, the primary school is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202102814	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party votes for the new grant model. It is, of course, part of the financial law agreement, and I would like to emphasise that the Danish People's Party is a strong supporter of the free schools. After all, we were in the resolution to find a solution to the problems of inclusion in the free schools, and this is then a model that replaces the temporary solution. In Funen, where I come from and where I live, you have a strong free school tradition. In some places there are up to 30%. of the students attending a free school; Funen still hangs away both socially and socially. Ærø has only recently received a free school. In the capital there are quite different challenges. Three-quarters of the citizens vote on parties that want more immigrants, and when the children go to primary school, they take their children out and send them to a private school. This is a completely different issue, which is why I understand that parts on the left are having a bit of difficulty with the free schools. But free schools are an excellent addition to our primary school. Having said that, we must also mention that the free schools have had an injection of 355 million. kr. additional since 2015, because the coupling rate has been increased from 71 to 76. We've been with you all the way. However, we had recommended that the money for this new grant model be found within the 75% coupling rate. It has ended at 76 per cent, and of course we support this when we are included in the financial regulation. With the increase we will be helping a number of small schools around the country, especially in rural municipalities, where many primary schools have been closed and therefore free schools have been opened afterwards. Others are being opened up for educational reasons, which we support; that is the whole basis of the free school law. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is absolutely right when he says that we will then also be supporting Muslim free schools, which are laying around in the water crust financially. That is absolutely right, and we are quite sorry about that too, which is why it can be said quite rightly that the government's free school policy in some respects is not quite sound-free and perhaps also easily fluttering. But that is why the Danish People's Party has also tabled two motions for resolutions to tackle the challenge of Muslim free schools, and I hope, of course, for the support of the Social Democrats when they come to the Chamber. The Danish People's Party votes for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103124	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103128	Well, that's because sir... Alex Ahrendtsen says that free schools are an excellent addition to the established if I listened carefully. This does not apply to Muslim free schools, I understand. So, the Danish People's Party does not think that Muslim free schools are an excellent addition to primary school? For whatever the Danish People's Party proposes, more than 2 million have been allocated. kr. extra for Muslim free schools, including some of those you really wanted to close.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103152	No, Muslim free schools are not an excellent addition to primary school. On the contrary, we would prefer that there were no Muslim free schools in Denmark. We will have to deal with this in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103208	You have to push in if you want to ask for a comment. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103212	Thanks, I'm sorry. But does this mean that the Danish People's Party will not grant more money no matter what? I guess you could have made a condition for giving this money that some schools shouldn't have it. No matter how you explain it, it is probably state aid to parallel societies, that is, that you help to grant money where there is not a single ethnic Danish student. So you can keep to yourself and even get even more money than you had last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103240	That is absolutely right; money is given to parallel societies. The problem is that we have to give to all free schools, and that is why we will deal with it in other ways. But we don't want to use the economy. We will, for example: use the Social Democrats' own proposal that free schools should have a maximum of 50 per cent. bilingual at the school. Then we also have another proposal that the teaching of foreign languages by free schools should be limited to European languages, with the exception of the Minister, and I hope, of course, that the Social Democrats will vote in favour of both.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103316	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103325	Thank you. I've been looking forward to this day for years. We are here today dealing with L 131, which is a legislative proposal which actually came into being years ago when I was in opposition. It was also at that time that I was visiting Løgumkloster Friskole, which is a small free school in Jutland, which actually really, really wanted to say yes to recording a boy with autism at their school. The boy had already attended their kindergarten, and the boy already had siblings at the school. The parents really wanted the boy here to start at Løgumkloster Friskole, and it was also the case that what you could offer was also one of the things that was said would be very good for the boy. But the school was in the situation that it would mean that the school itself would have to provide between 50,000 and 60,000 kroner. a year to say yes to recording this boy in the free school. This made me start digging a little bit into this, and I was visiting several different free schools and could well hear that it was some of the things that made it necessary in many free schools, especially the small ones, to say no to taking up a child with special needs, because it would then mean that they either had to turn up the parental pay for all other pupils in order to have the money to take up the children and it could then have the consequences that the parents of the other pupils thought it was too expensive to go to school and thus chose the school from • or alternatively they would have to and perhaps forced to arrange different collections each year etc. to have the kids go to school. That was actually the reason why this bill we are discussing today came into being. I took up the task, and fortunately I also received the support of the other blue parties and with the support of the Danish People's Party, and I very much appreciate that, because with the bill here today we are actually giving more freedom to children with special needs to be able to choose a free school as well, and I believe that with this proposal we are ensuring that we spread both the responsibility and the task of caring for children with inclusion needs, and that is why I can also say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103639	It is an important social task to ensure that all children and young people receive the best possible education and that pupils who need special support are also supported so that they have the opportunity to participate in education and the life of the school on an equal footing with all other pupils. Therefore, in the view of Enhedslisten, it should be a matter of course that the free primary schools, which receive funding for the majority of their operations through public funding on an equal footing with the primary school, take on social responsibility and provide a good school offer also to children who need special support. Whether or not the free school world is fulfilling that task is a regular discussion, a subject of political debate, and in the context of one of these discussions, Parliament decided, following the 2012 Act on Inclusion, to introduce a temporary grant to strengthen the commitment of free schools to include and include children with special needs. I am not going to go into the debate today about the extent to which and how well free schools are fulfilling their social obligations, but I would say that Enhedslisten can support the proposal here. We think it is reasonable that the temporary inclusion allowance, which has been in force for the last six years, is now being made permanent and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party and say that the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103844	Thank you. I just felt a need to thank Enhedslisten for backing this bill. I've got one of them. was with Jakob Sølvhøj visiting various free schools, and therefore I was well aware that at Enhedslisten there was also a heart beating for the free schools. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to comment on what was stated in the report drawn up by EVA back in 2015, which actually emphasised that the small schools in particular often had to say no to pupils with special needs, and in the vast majority of cases the reasons were economic, so that the schools simply could not afford to accept them. Is this also part of what Enhedslisten's rapporteur has experienced when he has visited free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202103950	It is true that we have a heart that sometimes also beats for the free schools. So, it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten believe that the primary school should be so good and strong that it is the natural first choice for the vast majority of parents, but we believe that when there is a free school law, when there are free schools, it is really important that it is required, on the one hand, that they undertake to lift part of the social responsibility and, on the other, that it is also taken into account that there should be funding for the task. I should like to say thank you for your kind words; they are not to be found unkindly that we would certainly have preferred not to have increased support for free schools in the same way, so the switching rate increased from 75 to 76. We were against this, we are against it and we voted against the financial bill. But now that it is there, we think, among other things. on the basis of what Mrs Anni Matthiesen is asking, it is true that the temporary grant will be permanentised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104102	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104112	Thank you for the floor. With Bill L 131, we improve the possibilities for free schools and private primary schools to include children with special needs. It's gonna be easier than it is today. It is, of course, a sensible legislative proposal which benefits all pupils with special needs and, furthermore, as Mrs Matthiesen has pointed out, the draft law makes it easier for families who have a tradition of putting their children in a particular free school or private school to stick to family traditions, even if the children have special needs. It is therefore both a very sensible and family-friendly bill, and we are happy about that in LA, so of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104209	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104216	Thank you. In the alternative, we support this bill. And I must start by saying, also in respect of the different positions that are in my own group, that this has been a discussion that has not been easy to take because there are different positions, but the Alternative Group clearly believes that we must support the bill. Then why are we doing this? Yes, we do, because this in isolation is actually a very good bill. This provides some concrete means for some specific schools, which can help some specific children with an inclusion task. And for that reason alone, because this is actually going to benefit some children in isolation, we think that this is an important and proper approach. This also gives the possibility that some of the free schools located in the outermost regions, where there are actually not many other schools to choose, can now work better with the inclusion task for these children, which is within the framework of the bill. It is also a wonderful non-bureaucratic legislative proposal, in that it simplifies and simplifies the processes in relation to grants, but also in relation to the fact that you no longer have to document the use of grants in the same way as you had to do in the past. And if there is anything we support in the alternative, it is of course that schools have freedom of professionalism and management of their own tasks. Then it can quickly become a discussion between free schools and primary schools. We have also heard that in today's debate, namely that it will very quickly become a discussion that says: we cannot support it here because the money should have been given to the primary schools. I think it is really a pity that we are unable to have the two discussions at the same time, because we should be able to say that, on the one hand, we can say that it is fine that we support some inclusion children and, on the other hand, we can say that, yes, our primary school out there is suffering and starving, and we need to strengthen our primary school. We will be the first to participate in the alternative, because it is not fair for the primary school to be given more and more tasks to such an extent that it can be said. Of course, the public schools are also experiencing an escape now, which is not the fault of the free schools, but which the primary school must manage, especially, of course, in the Copenhagen area, but also elsewhere in Denmark. So let us acknowledge that we have a challenge with our primary school, which I think we should start looking at how to solve, while recognising that we have a bill here that actually helps some children out in our very, very excellent free schools around Denmark. Let us not turn this into a struggle between primary and secondary schools. But it must also be a call from this that the next thing we are addressing now in the field of education should be a thorough discussion on how to strengthen our primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104525	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104531	Thank you to the rapporteur. If I understand that correctly, the rapporteur wants to separate the discussions, but I suppose they have something to do with each other. There are also plenty of children in primary school who are having a really difficult time, and there are plenty of teachers who have challenges and already lift huge social responsibility towards some students with special challenges, special needs. So I guess it's a discussion to take: where is the money going to? Is it primarily private schools, or is it the primary school that needs more money? I guess these things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104601	Yes, at an overall level it is, of course, connected when we look at how we distribute the funds we have in our treasury and in our field of education. If we had said no to this specific bill, and it had been voted down today, it is not because it is part of the financial law agreement... then that money would hardly have gone to primary school. That is what I mean, so this specific draft law is not related to whether we strengthen primary school by saying no to it. That's why we can still work to strengthen primary school, but it's not a either-or.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104627	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104629	This is, I suppose, linked to the way in which I hope the rapporteur recognizes that the primary school is also able to fulfil that task, while at the same time being enormously pressured. So I guess it's related to who it is, who you think should primarily raise pupils, no matter what background they have; i.e. whether it's primary school, which is a central part of our society, or whether it's the private alternative to primary school. This is not to make it a for or against private schools, but it is important that the primary school, which is already under pressure, should undertake a great many tasks to which private schools can say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104659	Well, I fully agree that this is a discussion that we must take, and I also agree that the primary school must be promised, that the primary school has the same task, and that the primary school has difficulty in carrying out that task. But the fact that we recognise that the primary school is under pressure does not make us say no to this bill, which helps some specific children out in free schools. No, it does not, but it must make us say and urge the Minister that the next thing we address now is primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104737	Radical Left supports L 131 and thus an increased subsidy for the work of free schools with inclusion. The Radical Left believes that the free schools are responsible for and the opportunity to carry out a social and professional task. The Radical Left also believes that on this basis the coupling rate should not be further increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104819	The draft law here proposes the establishment of a new permanent subsidy scheme for inclusion in free primary schools. The Conservative People's Party is interested in good offers and alternatives from which parents can choose when choosing school for their children, including for families with children with special needs. It is positive that the bill here makes it easier to accommodate more pupils with special needs in teaching. I'm sure that means a lot to both students and parents. With the differentiated rate, we accept that the small schools know that we have a higher proportion of pupils with inclusion requirements than the larger schools. We therefore support the legislative proposal for free primary schools in fulfilling this task and making them even more accessible to families with children with special needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104917	We're getting through. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202104926	Thank you very much, and thank you to the parties who support this bill... there was one or two who really took me by surprise, and it's really nice... which strengthens all parents' free choice of primary school for their child. In Denmark we have a free choice of school, and it is entirely up to parents whether it is a primary school or a free primary school that children should attend. It is parents who know their children best, and it is parents' responsibility and right to make the right choice on behalf of their children. The government wants to give priority to both primary and free primary schools, and it is important that parents have a real free choice, regardless of their background, economy and challenges. Those who want a free primary school because it is closer to where they live, because the school has a special educational or value focus, or because the school is small and manageable, must be able to choose it. But it must also be the case that parents of children with special needs can choose a free primary school, and that is why we are proposing a permanent subsidy scheme for inclusion in the free primary schools, namely a social coupling rate. This grant should help to ensure that schools have the resources to offer pupils with inclusion needs a good education. With the bill, we are targeting the funds for the free primary schools, which have the greatest need, that is. the less free primary schools. This gives these schools a better financial basis for accommodating pupils with a need for support for inclusion. This means that parents of pupils with a need for special support for inclusion also receive a much more free choice of school. I would like to emphasise that, of course, we recognise that the large free primary schools also solve the inclusion task. However, we need to prioritise resources for the inclusion task. The 2018 Finance Act includes a permanent grant scheme for inclusion in the free primary schools. This subsidy scheme is now being implemented by this bill. With the Finance Act, we have increased the subsidy rate for free primary schools from 75%. 76 per cent. in 2018. This is a good and important step towards more freedom for families. Of the increase in grants, 31 million have been allocated. kr. to increase the inclusion grant framework to 70 million. kr. in 2018 onwards. Under the current and temporary grant scheme, the State grants an annual contribution for inclusion of DKK 70,000. per school regardless of the number of pupils in the individual school. The Danish Evaluation Institute has carried out a study in 2015 on inclusion in the free primary schools on the basis of a number of changes to the rules for funding for inclusion in schools. The EVA study provides a basis for the proposed breakdown of the number of pupils in the schools in the four ranges, as there is a correlation between school size and the proportion of inclusion pupils, as the smaller schools have a higher proportion of pupils with inclusion needs. We propose that the grant be granted according to an interval scale in which the placement of schools is determined by their size, so that smaller schools are provided with a better financial basis to accommodate pupils in need of special support for inclusion. The draft law does not entail any change in the determination of the grants of the free primary schools, including the special grants and rates for special education and other social pedagogical support. The free primary schools help to solve the inclusion tasks, so that all schoolchildren in Denmark receive good schooling, and the schools do so regardless of their size, and they must continue to do so. With the bill, we prioritise and target the inclusion grant for those schools that have the greatest need, i.e.: the less free primary schools, which have a higher proportion of pupils with inclusion needs. I would like to thank you for the constructive and thorough discussions we have had in this Chamber and I look forward to any questions you may have during the committee's reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202105314	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180202105326	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 6 February 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
