ParlaMint-DK_20181009130024	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 67 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish Tourism and the Law on Visitdenmark. Bill No. L 68 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Administration of Grants from the European Regional Fund and the European Social Fund. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 15 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national strategy for digitalisation in the education system) and motion for a resolution No. B 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of an action plan for people with disabilities in the education system). Morten Østergaard (RV), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Request no. F 9 (What can the government state about the status of the new Public Procurement Act and the consideration of amending it?). Jep Jakobsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 10 (What steps will the government take before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130132	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130322	The debate is open. This is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130347	Thank you for that, President. Now I have the opportunity to put on this platform for the first time. That's nice. It's okay. Bill No. L 6, proposal for a law amending the daily offer law, is basically about us wanting all children in our society to get the best possible start to life and the best possible chances of getting along. Sadly, there are children who are not doing enough today. It is especially children who live in vulnerable residential areas and who are not given the opportunity to enter our good and solid day care centres with skilled educators. We also have institutions where this group of children is lumped together, so unfortunately they do not meet children who have Danish as their primary language, or children who have Danish traditions and standards from home. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is fundamental that we meet each other where we live, where we go to day care, where we go to school and where we work; that we meet across our society. That is why we are also very concerned that our day institutions reflect that picture, and we strongly support the ambition that we do not exceed. may record 30%. from the vulnerable residential areas of a day-care institution. I am also very pleased that this applies not only to our public institutions, but all the way around, so that the picture across the board is that this is a place where children meet cross-country. We should not have day care centres where people are exposed only to the same social problems and where those who speak badly Danish only meet others who do not know the language, and where they may not even meet children, where having parents who go to work is the norm. I think that is a good proposal on which we have agreed. I am also very pleased with the rubber bands that have been introduced in relation to areas where this is already in a good condition and where solid projects have already been set in motion to turn our institutions into mixed institutions, so that the concern that this will close down institutions is met. This exemption option is really important. Of course, this can't be alone. This must be done in the context of housing policy, family teachers and social standards. It is a holistic effort that needs to be made to give these children as good a start as possible to life and as good a chance as possible to succeed in our society. But it is certainly an important step on the way, and that is why the Social Democrats support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130645	Thank you. There are a few questions. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130650	Thank you so much. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I do not think that anyone shares the intention that children in Denmark should be mixed, across who we are, where we come from and what we believe in. What is the problem with this bill, and I hope the rapporteur has also seen this in the hearings, is what we see in a number of very critical comments from BUPL, KL, the Children's and Culture Managers' Association and FOLA, all of which point to the risk of watering down the day institutions in the vulnerable residential areas. Can the rapporteur not put a few words on this and say whether the rapporteur too is concerned that with this bill we are really going to go where the institutions in the vulnerable residential areas are going to close, so that the people living in the vulnerable residential areas are not actually able to interfere precisely with those they live close to, because there is no children's institution in the local area where they live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130746	Thank you. I also believe that we share the intentions, which is why it is simply a question of finding ways to go there that we can share. I think we should pay proper attention to the concern about institutional closures. That is also why we are very pleased with the derogations, for example. If you have already set something in motion and it is a private contractor that builds 1,000 new homes in a exposed area. We should not be able to say to the developer: by the way, there are no day care centres in the area. Then it will suddenly become unattractive to start investing and thus make the residential area more mixed. There must of course be the possibility of going in and assessing it on a case-by-case basis, in terms of whether it is a good plan and whether over a number of years you can achieve this goal. However, I think we must be firm that children from vulnerable residential areas are not intended to meet only other children from vulnerable residential areas. It doesn't give the best start to life. It does not provide the greatest cohesion in our country. Actually, I don't think we can be that familiar. So I stand by the fact that this is a strong objective, but I am pleased with the scope for exemption, because I think that many good projects have been set in motion, which we should not, of course, set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130903	Here you go, Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009130904	Thank you. As I read about the exemptions, I am not quite sure that we agree on how good they are. Of course it is good that they are there, but as I read the proposal, it is still quite extraordinary cases that need to be dealt with before a derogation can be granted. But there is a very specific problem that I foresee. Now the rapporteur himself says that we would like children from vulnerable residential areas to grow up with people other than those who live in vulnerable residential areas, but what we would like to say is that we want to abolish the vulnerable residential areas. After all, we want all our residential areas in Denmark to become diverse, so there are a lot of different people living there. It's just not gonna happen with this bill. Because, as I see it, the Danish, it can be said, well-off families will hardly choose to settle in a exposed residential area because their child cannot go to an institution in the area if they get up to 30%, because if they are now in percentage no. 31, their Danish child, let's say well-functioning from a good social family, will not be able to get into an institution in the neighborhood because of this rule. So I think it is going to keep the Danish families from moving there, that is to say the families we would like to get into the vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131008	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131009	I think I would agree with the concern if there were no exemptions. But that is precisely why there are exemptions. I am very pleased that the Minister has also listened to the concerns that have been raised in addressing this particular issue. I believe that where you actually have a plan for housing areas to be mixed, this will also be a consideration. I believe that if we followed it up with a strong housing policy, this problem would be much smaller by the year, and that is, of course, what we are striving for. That is also why we in the Social Democrats as a party are working to ensure that there are mixed housing, so that when you build new housing you also have to bring general housing into it, so that we can address this problem in the basic structure too. This, of course, is not solved by day care institutions alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131059	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131101	I noted that the rapporteur attached great importance in his introduction to the fact that it is so important for us to meet each other where we live. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier has got it: is it not the intention of this proposal that children in vulnerable residential areas should not meet children where they live, but should actually go somewhere else and go to day care? Is this not precisely the opposite of what the rapporteur has said, namely that children should meet in the day care centres where they live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131139	As a Social Democrat, I think it is absolutely crucial that we work both in housing policy for mixed housing forms, so that we meet each other where we live, but also that we also take into account the fact that our day-care institutions, our schools, our educational institutions are, moreover, mixed. And at the moment it is a fight on all fronts because we have residential areas where you don't meet where you live, we have day care institutions where you don't meet where you go to day care, and we have schools where the picture is the same. I believe that we must take action on all fronts, and this is one of the elements. That is why I believe that this is an important step which, of course, cannot stand alone. We must follow up on housing policy, we must follow up on school policy, and so do we on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131221	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131221-2	I hear a recognition that what is being done with this proposal is that children should not be offered daily where they live if they live in vulnerable residential areas. So I would also like to hear quite specifically: is it the rapporteur's view that this is going to mean closing institutions in vulnerable residential areas? And if they are closed, can the rapporteur not describe what is happening when children from vulnerable residential areas can no longer go close to where they live? What, then, will be the consequence when they move into the nearby institutions? So they're gonna be closed, too? Because then they will also encounter 30 per cent of the problem position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131303	To the first thing the rapporteur says, I can confirm, yes. If you live in a exposed residential area and today go to a day care centre down in your farm, where you live with the very same children who also go to the institution, so you don't meet children who have a different upbringing, who may speak the Danish language and who have parents who go to work, then yes, then I think you should go somewhere else and go to day care, because I think children deserve that. I think that children deserve the best possible start to life in order to have a strong chance to succeed, and I think that we have too many children that we do not give it today in our society. And I don't think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131341	Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131343	I understand that the rapporteur is very concerned about the fact that we have to meet across what might well be called social classes or at least different backgrounds. I live in Holbæk Municipality. In Holbæk town, we have one of these strained areas called Agervang. We also have an area called Ladegårdsparken, and we also have one called the Mountain Field. If you now have a day care institution that only has 30%. children who come from Agervang, who are on the list, and then you have 40%. from Ladegårdsparken and 30%. from the Mountains, does the rapporteur think that it is a very good and diverse kindergarten where good children's life can unfold and where a lot of different lessons are learned about all kinds of things that are not similar to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131436	I believe that mixing our day care institutions, our schools, our homes, our educational institutions strengthens the cohesion and, in particular, strengthens the opportunity for vulnerable children to cope and get solid, good standards where they are, get a strong Danish with them in life, and I do not think that this is an objective that we meet in institutions where up to 100 per cent of people live. is bilingual or comes from a exposed residential area. I think it is a declaration of failure that there are institutions where that is the situation, and I think it is a good thing that we are doing something about it. This can't be alone. There is housing policy, social policy and everything else that needs to be added. But I think it is a good first step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131526	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131527	I'll try again with my question. In case there's 40%. Over from Ladegårdsparken, which until quite recently was also on this ghetto list, which is being busted into this kindergarten, which is over in Agervang, it may well be that you achieve this 30-percent goal. But it is not exactly some children who are very different from those who were already there. If you simply move those children from Agervang to the Ladegårdsparken, does the rapporteur think that we have achieved something special with this, other than that we have spent a little more money on buses that have to separate ways?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131600	I think the rapporteur's concerns are relevant. As a Social Democrat, I really think that this should be something that applies to all vulnerable children, whether you happen to live in one housing block or the other. We haven't been able to get through with that. But I think this is better than not doing anything, and I hope that the local solutions that you then find, as I already know there are many people in the process of devising, land a place where as many children as possible experience an everyday life, where they meet crosswise, get the Danish language with them, get Danish values with them and get a daily life where they are not only with other children from vulnerable families. Because I think that weakens their chances of life. It shows all the figures and statistics, and I think we owe it to these children to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131647	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131650	It has to be said that after a number of parties made this parallel society agreement, there has been a process in which it has been found that there has to be a derogation which applies this 30-percent rule. So it seems that we have found out that we had gone far too far in what we had agreed. And I hope that in this legislative process we will see that what we are doing is completely foolish. What is important in a residential area is that there is some service. We can take Sundparken in Horsens, yes, you have an area where there are many who are unemployed, and yes, historically there are many who have a non-Western background. There is a daycare institution in that area and, of course, it is quite natural that the local area reflects what some children are in that daycare institution. And then it's that you want to do something with some square rules. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it was not another way to go, to strengthen the institutions, to give additional resources to the institutions which had many children from the so-called vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131754	Here you go, Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131755	I think we should do both. I think that we should have an objective of interinstitutionalism, and then I think that when you have children from vulnerable families, social standards should be included. Fortunately, the government is also prepared to do so. This is something we have done together, and I think the two things go very well hand in hand, so we actually do both. I hope that it will end up giving these children better upbringing and better life opportunities, because they both meet a mixed group of children in their everyday lives, and that those who come from vulnerable residential areas and vulnerable homes actually come with additional resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131837	Here you go, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131839	Well, that just doesn't happen automatically. In other words, if you look at reality out there, you have a large number of residential areas where you are in a process where you try to get people who have jobs and are in education to move in. And to get those people to move in, it may actually be a plus that there is infrastructure that there are day institutions in the local area. And when you implement this law, it works against it. Why, then, should you move into a residential area if you have small children and want them to be looked after close to where you live? You're working against integration with this bill. I think it is a pity that so far the negative effects of this bill have not been seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131914	I'm not saying this is easy, but I think the status quo is inappropriate for the children who go there. And by the way, I think that if you're an ordinary, well-off middle-class family who has to move into a residential area, you'd like there to be a day care center, but you also want it to be a mixed group of children going there. And that's what I think is the stakes there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131941	Thanks for that, and then there's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009131950	Thank you. The proposal here is probably based on a desire for a dispute with what one might call ghetto institutions, if one is to use the word that is now flourishing in the debate, rather than wrap it up in occupied residential areas. I guess it's actually a noble intention to have, that is, that there shouldn't be these ghetto institutions. So you're going to solve that by saying that max. 30% of the children admitted to a given day care institution must come from one of these areas on the government ghetto list. It means everything else equal that if today there are day institutions, where more than 30%. is taken from a exposed residential area and there is, because that's why we're here... then there are some children that need to be moved around. There are some children from residential neighbourhoods, so to speak, who have to enter the ghetto institution in order to water down the proportion of children coming from the vulnerable residential area. On the other hand, some children must be seen the other way down to the Villa Quarter kindergarten. This part of moving children from the villa neighbourhood into the ghetto is trying to protect by such a rule that if one is referred to one of these institutions, one must also be offered a place somewhere else in another institution which is not located in one of these areas. It may be a solution that will remedy that problem in the big cities, as there is a natural limit to how far you can be sent away, and then you will have a real alternative, but for example. Slagelse Municipality has two exposed residential areas on the government ghetto list in Korsør and one in Slagelse. If you know Slagelse Municipality, you will know that it is a relatively large municipality geographically, so if you get your first reference to an area in either Ringparken or on Motalavej, which is one of these two ghetto areas, and then is offered a second place in Skælskør, then people will know that it is not a real alternative, and therefore parents would almost be forced to accept a place in a kindergarten that they had not really intended their children to go in. Conversely, this rule also applies only to day-care institutions located on a land register which is a exposed residential area. In some places these day care centres are exhausted, and as an example you can take Mjølnerparken at Nørrebro, where there is a day care centre, where there is a ghetto cadastre on three sides and a road on the fourth side of this day care centre, and then you would argue that that day care institution is by no means in a ghetto. So I really believe that many hours have been spent in here behind the thick walls so as not to see that the day-care institution is, of course, in a ghetto. That's what everyone's gonna say. If you pointed to it and asked if the daycare centre is in the Mjølner Park, everyone would say: Yes, it is. This protects the fact that you cannot be referred to a ghetto-children's garden, not in reality. In the Danish People's Party, we do not think that these children from the villa district, if you will say so, should be punished for the failure of integration and sent to a daycare institution in which their parents do not want them to go. Everyone who has spent two minutes on development education knows that it is in the early years that the child is decisively most receptive to the impressions and influence that society has on the child and that it is there that it is all founded. With this phase-in model that you've created, vintage is going to be inserted into some day institutions, where four out of five vintages are not covered by these rules. So if we have a day care centre with almost only children from these vulnerable residential areas, then even if you only take up 30%. in the new vintage, the vast majority still be children from these areas. It's not the children's job to move around because you haven't gotten a grip on these ghettos in time, and that's why we in the Danish People's Party obviously can't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132459	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132501	Thank you. Some of the things I would like to ask a little bit about, even to get a little bit smarter about the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's position on this, is: Do you have any thoughts about how it can be solved, that is, if you want to move only some children, but • as the rapporteur himself mentions • will not move some of them from the villa neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132527	We're not actually going to help move some kids around in this game. But you can say that if you're going to solve this problem, you have to solve the problem at its root. And the reason why a ghetto area lands on the ghetto list is that there are many adults who are of foreign origin, who are criminals or who are not in the labour market. And it can be said that the answer from the Danish People's Party is very short: if you are a foreigner and you are not in work or a criminal, then you have to be thrown out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132557	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132558	Now it is the case that in these socially vulnerable residential areas there are also many who have lived there for many years, and for that matter also children who have been born and raised there. I actually recognise that, of course, we have a duty to send those who have to be sent home. But I would also like to say that I would like to hear the rapporteur's comment on whether this means that the Danish People's Party will go so far as to think that these people must somehow be further isolated until they can be sent home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132638	But the fact that you do not want to do what is being presented is not the same as not recognising that there is a problem. I am just saying that I think the solution put forward here is, in fact, worse than the status quo. Then we would rather crush the ghettos by sending all those out of the country who have not chosen to integrate into society as we can. And once we have reached that point, we will have to see what further action can be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132704	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132707	Thank you. Now I am a little ahead of you, because it was actually a little bit about the same thing. Now I have not been in the day-to-day negotiations, so I got a little curious when I heard the rapporteur's speech, namely in relation to how the Danish People's Party will then solve the challenge of this parallel society, which is of course a huge problem in the vulnerable residential areas. After all, a few of them have been mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. So I was actually a little curious about what you're going to suggest to get rid of this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132754	As I have said before the rapporteur of the Left, it is a question of solving this problem at the root of the problem, namely that there are people who have resided in this country and who are not in the labour market and possibly criminals, obviously have chosen to show that they do not want to be part of society. We therefore believe that the best way to solve this problem is to give them a single ticket to their home country. In this way, we can solve the problem of large areas where they have chosen to settle together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132829	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132830	Thank you. I understand that, so it could be nice and easy if you could just do that. It is not possible in all cases to send people home, because not everyone lives in these areas, which can in fact be sent anywhere. If you cannot send some back then how is it to be solved? I still miss that a little bit if we are to do a preventive job in terms of getting rid of parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132916	Well, I simply do not recognise the premise that you cannot send a lot of these citizens home. There are simply too many. But it is clear that this work is made more difficult every time the government puts forward a new bill to include these citizens as Danish citizens rather than denying them citizenship. It's obvious that it's gonna be a lot harder. But if the government now started to say all these people from the laws on citizenship, it would be even easier to get started on this work so that we can clear up this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132945	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009132947	So I just have to understand: does the Danish People's Party mean that these people, who are, after all, admitted to the citizenship proposal and are granted citizenship, should not just have citizenship, but that they should definitely be sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133005	As far as citizens who contribute to the ghetto problem are concerned, i.e. people who are not at work or who commit crime, of course they should not have citizenship, no, and they should be sent home, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133016	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133017	Then I wonder whether the rapporteur even knows what it takes to obtain citizenship. Because if you get Danish citizenship, you are not a criminal, and you have been self-supporting for quite many years, and you have been in Denmark for quite many years. So the elements that allow you to get on this vulnerable list are precisely the things you don't want to hear again: is it the case that the Danish People's Party is now going to send home those who are ready to get Danish citizenship, who are not criminals who have had permanent residence for many years who go to work every day? Do they have to be sent home now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133053	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133054	Well, they typically do not live in ghetto areas, because if an area turns into a ghetto area, it is because there is a high proportion of people who are not on the labour market or criminals. That is why it is a small number of them, and that is why most of the citizens who make ghetto areas into ghetto areas could be sent home by asking them to do so. You could.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133128	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the draft law we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber is a matter of amending the day-off law. The bill is part of the government's overall action against parallel societies and is intended to ensure that children from vulnerable residential areas come in today's offerings where Danish is spoken and where they also meet peers who know the Danish language and use the Danish language, and that for that matter they can also learn more about both education, culture and development in Danish society. In fact, quite briefly, we think it is important that we take this step. I don't think this step is easy. I clearly recognise that there may be problems in connection with this great step that we are now taking, but I think it is necessary. I think it is necessary because otherwise these children are simply in danger of falling far behind when they start school. We have seen for many years that they find it difficult to conduct themselves in a purely linguistic way, they find it difficult to keep up when they start school, if they do not feel that they are also associating with Danish children and learning the language significantly better than they are today. Then the draft law also provides for a number of derogations, and I have to say that it is precisely because we should also make this work in reality. Anything, too many children have had a life over the past many, many years, where they may have only spoken a foreign language and where they have not met the Danish culture, and that is what we, together with all the other initiatives that lie in the parallel society play, will try to do something about. In conclusion, I would also like to thank the industry for helping to play a major role in the drafting of this bill. Because this is not going to be an easy task. We know that this requires that this task should also be tackled around the municipalities, but I actually see it as the only way to really get something done about this task, which we have actually recognised across parties, perhaps a long time ago. So with that I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133420	Then there are some comments and questions. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133424	A 4-5 months ago, the Danish Parliament adopted an amendment to the daily offer law, which means that parents had the opportunity to want a place in a specific day-care institution. In general, therefore, the opportunity for parents to want a specific place was increased. Is it not very contradictory to do exactly the opposite here four to five months later, namely to deprive a group of the opportunity to wish for a particular seat, even if it is located directly where they live, and only on the basis of where you have your population register address, and without any other assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133510-2	Well, it may seem as if it is drastic and, for that matter, contradictory to what we have just done. However, I must also say that it is not every day that we take a decision to make as great a move as parallel society is. I would actually just like to call on you to see things in a whole. This means that the efforts we are making in other areas, among others. in the area of housing policy, social policy, etc., we also need to be seen together with the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. It is necessary, and although we in the Left like the free choice, we have to say that here we simply have to do something more harsh, one might say. We simply have to take this step, even for the sake of these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133604	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133604-2	But if you live in a exposed residential area, you have the possibility of wanting a specific institution of your own greatly reduced compared to that of all other parents. Is this not a clear discrimination against parents living in a exposed residential area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133627-2	I think it might also be important to say here that it is in relation to new admission that this ceiling is being set up that maximum. 30% can be recorded. Perhaps it is especially to highlight this for the people who are watching the television screens. It's not like there's kids suddenly being thrown out of a day's service in these areas. But it's a ceiling we're setting in relation to new admissions. And yes, it is a drastic step, but a necessary step.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133701	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133705	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to follow up because this is discrimination. After all, we are going to discriminate against our citizens by saying to some of them that they should be allowed a place in the community, in the local environment, and others should not. In any case, the Left is in favour of free elections, as we know, but, as I know the Left, the Left also has a strong commitment to the importance of the local environment, the community, for the citizen and for the strong civil society. However, the rapporteur is not concerned that we are completely watering down the local environment, the local environment, in order to create these communities around, for example. children's institutions, when the institutions will certainly close on the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133748	I think we should be careful not to portray it as some big ghost. In other words, there may be a risk that there may be day institutions that may close, but I have to say that we cannot know about that yet. Whether this is discrimination can be viewed differently. This is a necessary step, and I really believe that we all need a more mixed population composition in these areas as well. There is, among other things. in these day institutions with the action we're doing with this bill. In the long run, however, I hope, as I said, that what we call ghettos will disappear, and that is why I believe that it will solve itself, in other words, in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133840	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133842	I think we'll be standing here in five years or more to repair a bill that doesn't work. I think that is quite serious, because I think we are going to see a lot of areas where there are too many children for the day institutions, and then there will be some empty day institutions elsewhere. Another thing that I think is discrimination in this proposal is that the parents who live outside a socially exposed residential area should not say yes to the place offered to them in the socially vulnerable residential area; we have mentioned this in the debate earlier. Why should you be allowed to say no to a place when you live outside a socially exposed residential area in an institution that is inside? Because if the intention is that all institutions throughout Denmark should have a maximum. 30 per cent, of course, there is no difference between the institution located in a socially exposed residential area and the institution outside. So why should one have the right, if one lives outside a socially exposed residential area, to say no to the square?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009133929	It is true that the bill is made in a way, so you have to have two offers • one within the area and an offer which is outside. I still have to say that I am not as concerned as the alternative rapporteur is. I actually think that with the overall measures that are now going to take place in this area, these ghetto areas will quietly change. We can already see that many of the municipalities in which these areas are located have, fortunately, embraced this and are planning how it can be resolved in the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134013	Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134014	Thank you. In reply to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj pointed out to the rapporteur that it was also here to take account of children. I would like to hear about something: what is the consideration given to the children in the Left when, instead of going to the crèche which is at the end of the villa road and which your parents had been looking forward to, you are going to the day care centre inside the ghetto in connection with some integration effort? What kind of consideration has the Left taken for this one-year-old child?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134045-2	When I was talking about the consideration for the children here a short time ago, I actually meant in relation to the poor integration efforts we have been doing for decades. In fact, I believe that the bill here takes account of the children who will now hopefully meet several Danish children and thus also meet the Danish language, and which is therefore also significantly better prepared from school to be able to start school, because they have met both the language and, for that matter, the Danish culture in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134122	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134124	Thank you. That's fine. Then it's clear what consideration you take. It takes into account the children who are children of parents who have chosen not to integrate into society. What, then, is the Left's answer to the children's family who now have to see their 1-year-old child assigned a place in the ghetto cradle room instead of in the crèche room at the end of the villa road, which they had actually looked forward to getting? What's the Left's answer to that family? Why should their child be an integration consultant in this little exercise?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134152-2	Now it is the case that, before I became a member of parliament, I have worked 19 years in the whole daycare area, and I can say that although the municipality in which I worked had no kind of ghetto area, in those years too there were many examples that parents could not have their first wish fulfilled. And I have to say that I am comforted by the fact that this bill has been written into it, that you have to have offered two seats: one outside this area and one within the area. And I think that, in fact, is also to take account of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134232	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134235	Now Mrs Anni Matthiesen mentions that this bill is, like, the only solution and the only option. I think that is actually to think very narrowly. I think it would be very natural to strengthen the day care institutions which may have many children who need special support. If I look at this and take Aarhus, there are, in fact, 14 out of 18 day care institutions located in the areas that are described as some sort of vulnerable residential areas, which risk not being able to continue. Then there will now be some sort of derogation that might solve some of the problem, but you are throwing the municipalities into a great uncertainty. And now that you have changed it, it must be a sign that you have seen that the parallel society package that was agreed is not good enough. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there could be no other way to go, namely to strengthen some of these institutions, which are located in the vulnerable residential areas, by making extra good offers there, rather than making the sacred 30 per cent figure that is needed to spread the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134346	Well, dear sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, we do both. After all, we have just reached an agreement to set aside additional resources for these socially disadvantaged areas. So I don't think this is a question of either-or. In fact, I believe that both can easily be done and that is precisely what the government has addressed. We have just sent more money to the socially burdened institutions, which also have an additional need for an extra or two extra educators to be able to give a hand in handling this task. So I think it's easy to talk about that it's both-and-so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134432	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134433	The big problem is, of course, that we have some residential areas that are trying to get people with work or in education to move into. And it is important that in that area there are day care institutions if they have small children or have to have them. This is what we run the risk of changing by reducing the number of day-care centres in those residential areas, so that there is a worse municipal service, which will make it more difficult to get someone to move in. Can the rapporteur not see that we are facing a dilemma here where there is a risk that it will be a worse municipal offer in these vulnerable residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134510-2	The difference may be that I am a human being who also chooses to wear the optimistic glasses. The overall action we are taking in this area is to combat and hopefully eradicate these ghetto areas. And I actually believe that this is one of the tools we can use to achieve it. I am not wearing the negative glasses of Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because I do not think these day institutions are being closed down. Let us follow developments. I am happy to acknowledge that this is a difficult task, but then I must say that I am proud that the Left is part of a government which, after all, is now taking hold. We have waited too many years to do that. I must therefore say that this is a step in the right direction. That is the first step, and then we must follow how it is going to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134608	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134611	Thank you. In the SF we share the intentions of the proposal and are also included in the agreement, and I very much believe that this agreement can help push in a direction. But that we also run the risk of having to rectify along the way, if we see that the municipalities have very major problems in fulfilling their intentions and I believe that the municipalities must be pushed. Now Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier says we have to repair a bad bill in five years' time. If it is now the case that something is just not working and is quite contrary to the intention to have more mixed day-care institutions and we also have this exemption access... will the rapporteur and the Left at all help to look at this and ensure that we have legislation that can be done in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134656-2	I would say that I always feel that, of course, things should not be cast in concrete from now on and forever. We know that this, the whole of the parallel society, is a huge, huge initiative, and it really requires the municipalities to take a great deal of responsibility in order to make it work. Fortunately, as I said, I think that the vast majority of municipalities have also recognised that this is necessary. And they've already started this big job. So I also feel that it may be that more things need to be done. Maybe there's a lot of stuff like that. And I think it is quite clear that we should also listen to the municipalities if they join forces and say that something is not working. Or if they say for that matter: we need some tools to make it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134746	Thank you, then there are no more questioners. Then we have a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jacob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009134757	To put it mildly, it seems contradictory when the government initiates all its legislative proposals, which translate the so-called parallel social agreements, with a statement that it wants a Denmark based on democratic values such as freedom, legal certainty, equality, freeness of speech, tolerance and equality. These are values which the Enhedslisten can absolutely endorse, but we certainly find it difficult to see that the government's proposals should promote the values that are being talked about. On the contrary, we see the proposals as restricting the freedom of many citizens, their legal certainty and their equality. A reduction in the freedom to choose where you want to live, a reduction in the right to decide where you want your children to be offered today, and a reduction in the institutions in which they can be registered. The draft law we are discussing here reduces parents' ability to choose a day care centre in their vicinity if they live in a exposed residential area. This contrasts remarkably with the fact that just 41⁄2 months ago the Folketing adopted a general strengthening of the right of parents to want a particular place in a specific day-care institution. With this proposal, the thousands of parents living in the non-profit housing areas defined as vulnerable will have significantly reduced their ability to choose which institution their child should go in and thus face clear discrimination compared to other parents. The draft law is therefore also, in principle, very problematic and, in addition, it will lead to a number of very specific problems. This will cause problems from the perspective of the child • what is necessarily the most important thing when there are children who are cut off from attending a daycare center where they live. The Ministry describes it quite clearly even in its representation of KL's hearing answer when they write: The bill may also have consequences for a coherent course for the individual child associated with the community. ▪ This will cause problems for parents, who for many will have longer journey times. As the Children and Culture Managers Association says in their hearing answer, a lot of parents understandably want a day-off spot close to their home. I also think BUPL is quite right when they write in their hearing answer that it will cause opposition to parents and that it will counteract the fact that resourceful families settle in a exposed residential area. In short, it would seem completely counterproductive in relation to what was supposed to be one of the main aims of the draft law. It will also cause the fundamental problem that it is becoming more difficult to maintain a large number of institutions, because capacity cannot be exploited and the institutions will thus face a serious risk of being emptied of children and of having to close down. These will be problems that will be so self-enhancing because it will obviously make it harder to attract children whose parents live outside the exposed residential areas. And so it will be more difficult to maintain and recruit educationally trained staff and managers. Of course, for the residential areas concerned, the erosion and closure of the institutions in the neighbourhood will make it less attractive to settle. And for the municipalities concerned, this means that they will face very major problems in planning the development of the day-off area and ensuring that there is the necessary institutional capacity. It is clear that the derogations which have been properly incorporated into the legislative proposal give the municipalities more time to solve the problems created by the new legislation. However, this does not change the fact that this is a proposal which is, in principle, very problematic and which will create major practical problems for children, for parents, for educational staff, for the residential areas concerned and for the municipal administration in a large number of the country's municipalities. I hope that the massive criticism of the proposals has impressed at least some of the parties behind the proposal. When KL reaches the Children's and Culture Managers' Association, when BUPL and the Parents' National Organization and the Children's Council are all concerned about this proposal, it should cause the proposers to seriously consider whether they have not gone completely wrong. The unitary list will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135241	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135243	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark talks about restricting freedom. Yes, you may well choose to read the bill, but I am just wondering whether Enhedslisten does not think that it can also restrict freedom if you do not also ensure that significantly more children are given the opportunity to learn the Danish language and, for that matter, meet the Danish culture in the daily offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135317	About Mr. Jacob Mark speaks of the restriction of freedom, will appear when he gets the word "Jakob Sølvhøj" does so. It's all right. We Jakobber's gonna have to suffer with the slander of names together. But it must be quite clear that for Enhedslisten it is really important that we have day care institutions that allow us to meet each other to the greatest extent possible across social boundaries and across ethnicity, and that is why we also think it is really important that the municipalities I assume are working very intensively to find out how to ensure a diverse composition of the children's groups in the institutions in vulnerable and all sorts of other residential areas. So, yes, we think it is important that something is done, but we do not believe that the task is solved by coercion and punishment, which is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135418	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135419	Could the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj (Sølvhøj) will talk about what you really want to do from Enhedslisten to solve this problem? I also said in my rapporteur's speech that this is not easy, but sometimes it is also easy and perhaps easier to just stand outside and criticise, so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur could say a little more about whether Enhedslisten will just stand by and let it go on as it is today or what else you will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135453	No, we will by no means stand still. So, on the one hand, the legislation already offers an opportunity to work with visiting districts, so that we are working on a more mixed composition in the institutions as planned, and it is certainly being worked on. In addition, I think it is very important that we try to make some of the institutions in which there are a great many children from vulnerable housing environments as attractive as possible, by raising their quality, by investing in social norms and by relying on extra staff with educational training. So yes, we can do a great deal to raise the quality of education and also make institutions in those areas particularly attractive, but forcing children away from there simply solves no problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135542	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135551	Thank you. Better distribution in our day institutions is an important agenda. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, like the other parties, we are concerned that children have as good a framework as possible and that they have the opportunity to develop both linguistically, professionally and socially. That is why we also need to recognise the challenges that exist in vulnerable residential areas. Children in vulnerable residential areas have a greater risk of not developing age-matching in terms of Danish language skills than children living outside vulnerable residential areas. That children in vulnerable residential areas are more likely to grow up in parallel societies with very little association with Danish society, that there is a high proportion of adults outside the labour market, and that in those areas more crime is committed, is a fact that we have to deal with. These children need their language challenges, but they also need help in the form of living in new and better environments. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we are delighted with this proposal, which is trying to tackle these challenges by ensuring that no more than 30% can be absorbed. children from vulnerable residential areas in each day institution. As I said, it is extremely important for children from vulnerable residential areas to meet other children outside the vulnerable residential areas. It is basically a question of giving these children a better start to life and of breaking down parallel societies. We believe that this bill is a step in the right direction, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135740	There's a couple of questioners. Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135743	Thank you. If there are two day-care centres nearest to death, where one is located on a cadastre belonging to a so-called exposed residential area, and the other is located on the neighboring square, that is outside the exposed residential area, and the two day-care centres otherwise have the same proportion of children coming from within the exposed residential area, what makes the two day-care centres different, so if you are assigned a place for one, you get an alternative, but if you are assigned a place for the other, you just have to accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135819	It is clear that one can easily have the theoretical example of touring around with, so that there could be two so close to each other, where one is covered by this bill and the other is not, but where their child composition is fairly equal. But it is not the case that when we look out in the real world, it is so in many places. It is true that Mjølnerparken is a concrete example, which is why we have also ensured that if you are to visit as a family from outside, you cannot be searched into a ghetto without another alternative. I think we should follow this area closely. We must then follow how the municipalities point families forward, because we are also not interested in families outside the exposed residential areas being searched into one on the matrimony, and the other being the one just outside the matrimony, which is de facto like the one inside the matrimony. Of course we're not interested in it, so we should keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135916	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009135918	Thank you for that, and thank you for recognising that this is not a thoughtful example, but that this example actually exists. What about the residential areas where the only kindergarten in the area is just outside, and in everyone's eyes it will be ghetto children's garden, if I may say so? Everyone in the local area would say so, for example. Motalavej in Korsør, located just outside the matrix. Why is it that parents from Svenstrup or another catchment area should not have the same protection from getting a place in the kindergarten as those who live near a exposed residential area where the day care centre is located on the mattress? Why is it that there has to be the difference in protection from getting into that kindergarten that you obviously don't want your kids to go in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140008	That is a good point, and it is quite right that we should pay proper attention to how the municipalities are going to point forward. You also have a municipal responsibility yourself out there. In my municipality, the municipality of Frederiksberg, where I sit in the municipal council, we have created a ceiling of max. 30% bilingual, and one might have chosen to do so here too, so we just do not get the children who are not bilingual, but who also grow up in vulnerable residential areas with mother and father on cash aid and also need help. So it was like the challenge that was faced, but of course we need to pay attention to how forward-looking direction is being assigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140050	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140053	Now I am aware that the rapporteur himself is a parent. Can the rapporteur understand that it can make it very little attractive for children's parents to move into a residential area if it is the case that moving into the residential area in question means that they are very likely to write off the possibility of having a day-care centre where they live? Would it not be something where young children's parents think twice if they reduce their own opportunity to have a day-care centre where they live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140135	Enhedslisten tries to draw a picture that there are a lot of families and wants to live in these ghettos they are kind of knocking on, but now, because they can't have their children in the ghetto-day institution, they're wondering if they shouldn't. It's not real. The reality isn't that there are a lot of middle-class families who want to move into these vulnerable residential areas, and that now it's precisely that they can't have their children in the day-care institution that makes them abstain. It's just not reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140211	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140214	The question is, is it? Well, I wasn't trying to draw that picture. I did the opposite. If that's the case, parties, for example. Does the rapporteur's party believe that it is important for us to have mixed housing areas and therefore to make it attractive for people to move into vulnerable residential areas, does the rapporteur think that it makes it particularly attractive for people to dedicate themselves, as it were, to the possibility of having a day-care centre where they live? Does this make it more attractive, or does it make it less attractive for people to move into vulnerable residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140253	Well, the thing is, it's not attractive at all to the target group that Enhedslisten is talking about. It is not attractive for a middle-class family to move into a exposed residential area where the majority of those living around them do not speak Danish and are not in the labour market. And it's not attractive either, even if you could get a seat in that daycare institution. Actually, I don't think most people would want that. So it's not attractive. It is not today, and it is not tomorrow, but that is what we want it to be in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140324	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140328	Well, I don't think it helps these over 50 residential areas to talk so badly about them. There are a large number of these residential areas to which the bill relates, which have developed over the years in which the composition of the dwelling has undergone a quiet and quiet development. And if we take such an area as that of Aarhus, which is called Skovgårdsparken, then the area sort of goes off this list, which is called a hard G-list if only ten families get to work. And it is a housing association where there are more than a year's waiting list to be allowed to move in, where the rent is such at the reasonable end and where the energy costs are low because the area has been completely renovated a few years ago. There are day institutions in that area. If this bill is adopted, there is a risk that a number of the day institutions will not be able to continue unless they obtain a derogation. So there you can risk living in a residential area where there is poorer child care. And there we can risk that the positive developments that the area has been quietly over a few years will be slowed down by this bill. So I would like to appeal for a slightly more differentiated approach to the 50 or so residential areas in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140441	Here you go. Laura Lindahl I don't think there was any question, I didn't hear a question). Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140449	That's right. Sometimes it is also very good to reflect on things and to reflect on whether the legislative proposal that we are about to adopt is quite right, and on the need for the derogation that has now been put in, because one could obviously see that the draft law was too far-reaching and had far too negative consequences for a number of residential areas, if implemented. There is then a derogation now. So I would appeal to you to be a little open to looking at whether this bill still does not go too far. And that is an appeal that I would like to spread out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140522	Thank you for the call to think. We already have. We have also been witnessing for decades how we have stood by. And I have not heard Enhedslisten come up with a single proposal on how to settle a dispute with parallel societies. My view is that if it were up to Enhedslisten, one would stand by; then one would let generation after generation of children grow up without being able to speak Danish, without being able to form part of the community that one is part of in primary school, when one is at the same professional level, when one gets a youth education, gets a free and good life, where one can retrain and get a good job. I haven't heard Enhedslisten have any suggestions on how we break that pattern. We have a concrete suggestion: we have to follow it closely; it's not certain we're going to end this alone, but it's a start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009140617	Thank you so much. I think I will start by saying that we fully share the intentions in the draft law. We agree with that, I think the entire Danish Parliament is that our children and young people in Denmark should, as far as possible, interfere with each other, no matter what colour they have and what they believe in and where they come from. The solutions in this bill are just completely, completely wrong to talk about how we both, you can say, help the children involved, but not least, how we get rid of the social housing areas, so that we have a greater equality in our residential areas in Denmark at all. And there are other solutions that we can take. This is a major interference in personal freedom. We have mentioned this, but here we tell some people that you cannot be allowed to decide for yourself where your child should go to day care. You cannot necessarily choose a place close to where you live. There is discrimination, on the one hand, in what I have just said, that there are some parents who cannot be allowed to choose a place close to where they live, and on the other hand some parents, such as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen has mentioned several times, when living outside a social housing area, actually receives two offers. An offer that should not necessarily be accepted, which is inside a socially disadvantaged residential area or an exposed residential area, and an offer that is then outside. I simply do not understand the logic. I simply do not understand why some should be allowed to opt out while others should not. Why is that? In other words, if the whole intention is that all Danish day institutions must have a maximum. 30% from the socially vulnerable residential areas, why should those living outside the residential areas be allowed to say no to a place? After all, all the institutions have the same rules and have to live up to the same percentage. Why, then, should you be able to say no to some and not to some others? I simply do not understand that. So I think we need someone to explain that to me at least. As several consultation responses have already mentioned, this will water down the institutions in the socially vulnerable residential areas rather than strengthening the local community. We should, of course, instead strengthen the local community in those areas where we believe that there are some challenges in relation to parallel societies. So let's get some well-functioning families with good resources into these residential areas. At least we don't do that by telling them that you can't be sure that your child can get a daycare center here. So we are simply watering down the institutions and we are reducing the power of local communities. It will thus create more parallel societies. So this bill will be counterproductive, given that we will have some residential areas that will be more similar and have the same expression than we see today. Then there is one thing that we have not mentioned, but all of us who have or have had little children know the wolf hour, and we know what it's like when we bring our child to the day care centre and go home. We would very much like it not to take too long. If you sit and have an hour of transport, we also know that it is not the funniest hour of the whole day. I don't think it's the best hour of the day either. So how can we even justify, on the basis of the child's best interests, a model in which we run the risk of some children spending perhaps an hour each way on transport to and from day care every day? We simply cannot be familiar with this. We can easily find solutions that can work. My eldest child was to start primary school... we lived at that time somewhere on Nørrebro, which was socially burdened. There was a local primary school which had a large share of bilingual. In fact, what the Municipality of Copenhagen did was to set up a project called "Using the primary school at Nørrebro·, where all of us parents who had children in kindergarten were visited by the municipality's employees and were told what we could get if we sent our children to the local primary school. They invested an enormous amount of resources in this local public school. It was the old Sjællandsgade School, now called the Guldberg School, and it was all a great persuasive project, so that we resourceful parents actually sent our children to this primary school. We ended up doing that. Until then, parents had sent their children to other primary schools outside this area or in free schools. We ended up sending our kids to this primary school. The primary school became the most sought primary school throughout Copenhagen by all sorts of parents because they had invested such massive resources in it. Because all of a sudden, every parent wanted their kids in this primary school. So that's what we have to do. After all, we must invest massively in the day-care institutions in these vulnerable residential areas, so that all the resourceful families think that there I would like my child to have good standards, super cool playgrounds, tours in the forest, what do I know? There are so many opportunities to make these institutions attractive to all parents, and that is the only right way to go if we also want these residential areas to become more mixed in the long term. So that is my solution, and that is our solution from the point of view of the alternative. We can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141130	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141133	Thank you. In relation to the issue of discrimination, one can basically find examples of this in perhaps most municipalities. I think that it is often the case that in reality there are certain districts where you are offered space, and that means that if you do not live in that district, there is a risk that there may be discrimination, if there are parents who want to make use of a day offer outside the district in which they live. And I suppose it is also possible to talk about discrimination on the basis of what the Alternative's rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141221	I'm not quite sure I understood the question. I think it is because the municipalities have different rules as to how much space can be desired. Now, of course, we had the change of law earlier this year compared to being able to choose the day institutions you want, but in most places you may have three options, and then you have to say no once, but then you have to say yes to the next offer or something. It is not, as I know it, geographically, as I know it in many municipalities. People's schools are because they are distributed, so it is of course, you might say, residents of the district who come in that way. But I do not see how it speaks against what I am saying, because this bill is outright discrimination between the socially vulnerable housing areas and the rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141302	Mrs Anni Matthiesen
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141303	But in the draft law here, it is also the case that two options are offered. There are, of course, municipalities which, frankly, in order to manage it, when parents are given the opportunity, that is to say the offer that their child can be admitted, already have to do some kind of district division, otherwise there could be, to put it bluntly, a single kindergarten in a municipality in which all parents want their child to go in, because it may be there you have the best playground or because it is a natural nursery. That is why there are times when districts need to be set up. What's the difference between what we're doing here if the alternative has to make a bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141353	Now I understand the question. Well, it is quite clear that the way I read it here is the possibility of saying no to a place alone determined by the fact that it is a place that is within a socially exposed residential area. If, as parents, you live in Copenhagen K and get two places that are not in a socially exposed residential area, you cannot say no. But you can if you live in a socially exposed residential area. That's discrimination. And in this way we also say indirectly to the people who live in the socially vulnerable residential areas: It is not so good to come with you, and therefore we have decided that parents can say no. That is what I think is discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141437	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141440	Thank you. I very much agree with the rapporteur in the fine story of the strong effort to get people to use the primary school in Copenhagen. There are a great many good efforts that have actually been made and which mean that today we have a primary school with local support and mixed children's groups, and that is very good. However, it does require, as a starting point, that the population living in that area should also be mixed, which, by its very nature, is not the case in the cases we are talking about here. How does the rapporteur view the coherence of the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141517-2	That is absolutely right. If we want to have mixed areas and at the same time want local support and to be able to attend the local school or day care centre, then we have a challenge. I'd say you have to work on two tracks. One is the long-term track, which states that these residential areas need to be softened in relation to the composition of the dwelling. We can decide that politically, because we can go in and make some criteria for who comes in and lives in our residential areas. We have tried to do so, but we have not yet succeeded in doing so. But it is a long-term solution, and it is not done in 1 year or 5, it may take 20 years to soften up our residential areas in terms of composition. As far as the second clue is concerned, and that is what I said at the end of my speech, we must invest massively in the institutions and primary schools located in the vulnerable residential areas, so that it simply becomes so attractive for people from outside to bring their children in here, because then we will have some more mixed institutions. But we should not do this by forcing those who live in the residential areas outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141610	Both ambitions can easily be reunited. I also believe that we share the ambition that we should live together, that we should go together in our institutions and in our schools, but what exactly is the rapporteur's response to the situation we have today, where we have too many institutions where it is just not mixed at all? What exactly is the rapporteur supposed to do? Is it okay to let go until the long-term plan works, or what does the rapporteur think it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141638-2	I think there are two things in it, and it's all about money. The 240 million. kr., you put in the conversion pool here, you could use to invest in the day institutions located in these socially vulnerable residential areas. It will mean two things. One would be that there might be more parents from outside who would apply, and that could, of course, push out some of those who are in there, so of course you have to take that into account, because where are they going, because there must be seats for them? But it is clear that if we invest in it, there will be parents who choose it and who do not necessarily live in the socially vulnerable housing area. The second is that while we are waiting for us to have more mixed housing areas, I think we should accept that there will be an uneven percentage. I think we have to accept that over a long period of time, and then we simply have to give those children much more language stimulation and much more support with their parents, in order to avoid precisely what we know the statistics say, namely that the children who go to some kindergartens, where there are not many Danish children, have a worse language development; of course we must help those children not to have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141737	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141740	The rapporteur says that using the conversion pool on day-care institutions in vulnerable residential areas will help. We have set aside money for the conversion pool to be spent on these day institutions. So we've already done it. It's part of this bill. The rapporteur then says that we must wait. We have to leave these children in day care centres where there is this imbalance until the non-mixed residential areas are mixed. The rapporteur also says that we must wait for the housing areas to be softened and that we can also do something politically. However, every time we do something politically, the rapporteur is the first to criticise us who do something politically. So can the rapporteur say nothing about what the rapporteur's party will actually do to make the housing areas in Denmark more mixed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141828	First of all, the conversion pool has been created as a consequence of the bill. The conversion pool is made because when we have a patch on the wound, and then you can try to see if you can patch up the institutions that we are watering down. It's a complete mess. They are being watered down, including for the skilled educators, because nobody wants to work in these institutions. I do not know how one imagines that we should have good and sustainable institutions when one has already told them that they cannot take up from their vicinity. If we had invested that money from the conversion pool in the institutions and said: go ahead. Try to make the coolest institution here, and attract a lot of the resourceful families too, so that's a completely different way to do it. It's a reverse way of doing it, because we're not gonna tell them first: we're gonna push the kids away, and then you can try to fix it. But that's what you're doing with this bill. So in relation to the question of... now I have used my speaking time soon, well, I have to come back to that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141930	Yes, speaking time is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009141932	Well, the conversion pool needs to be used to make the institutions more attractive. That's what's in it, and if we hadn't made this bill, no money would have been set aside to make them more attractive. So that is an advantage for the institutions; I would like to make a bet that there are also skilled educators who will be working there in the future. I do not understand why the rapporteur can say that there will not be. Well, there's going to be, because educators are passionate about working in places like these where you put in extra. Then I would just like to give the rapporteur a chance to tell us how the rapporteur's party envisages politically creating more mixed residential areas if it is not by means of the grip we have already used.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142013	I just forgot the first thing the rapporteur said. But there are plenty of opportunities to go in and define who it is that can live in the residential areas we have today. After all, we can invest massively in the vulnerable residential areas that we have today, so that we make it attractive to move into them for some of the resourceful families. There are plenty of opportunities to invest massively in, for example. Mjølnerparken and in Gellerupparken and Vollsmose, so we open it up so we make it delicious, so we make, let's say city gardens for the eco-dancers, who want to live in a place where they can go and harvest their own vegetables. There are plenty of opportunities to invest in the exposed and strained residential areas, so that such ones as me and many other members of parliament think: God, it might be interesting to move there at a price I might also be able to pay. So to say that we have done enough! If the rapporteur really believes that we have done enough to put an end to the parallel societies that we have in Denmark now, then I just do not think that the rapporteur's party is ambitious enough at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142115	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wants to speak. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142129	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the new platform. In the Radical Left we would like to have mixed nurseries, mixed kindergartens, mixed schools and mixed education at all, because we believe it is important for children to see that children and families can be different at all. But it is also because it is important for us as a society, because what kind of country do we want Denmark to be? Are we going to be such a country where you live next to each other, but have nothing to do with each other at all, or do we want to be a country where we play together and know each other crosswise and where we trust each other? I know what kind of Denmark I want, because I believe that trust is one of the finest things in our society. That is why the Radical Left is also included in this agreement. On the whole, we are quite happy that the Minister for Children has come along and wants to mix up our day care institutions. I wish our Minister for Children might want to talk to the Minister for Education, because although we have actually agreed with each other in the high school settlement that we should have mixed high schools, we have a Minister for Education who is still blocking something that can happen, so I would appreciate it very much if, when we can actually find out about the government in the day-to-day field, we could join the upper secondary school field. The Radical Left is part of this agreement, but at the same time we can also see some problems in the way the agreement itself has been implemented. I therefore share the criticism that the proposal is both square and gives the municipalities too little time and, in fact, too little support. At least I know from the radical Councilwoman in Odense, Susanne Crawley Larsen, that she is faced with what is almost an impossible task, namely to be able to achieve this by next year. Basically, I also have a problem with the thinking, and in fact, as the debate has been today, that we must move certain children elsewhere. I mean, for me, the debate is much bigger than that. This isn't about moving a certain kind of kid. It is all about mixing, and mixing goes all the way, because I believe basically that it is healthy for all children to see some other children who are different from themselves and the family they come from. Therefore, I would just like to use my rapporteur's speech to call on the Minister for Children: should we not sit down and look at some of the hearing answers that have come, because perhaps we could actually do something that is more flexible and that could make the solution out there better than what is now? At least I'm thinking that none of us want to end up there, that next year you're just gonna bust kids around, because that's like the only thing you can do when it has to go so fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142417	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142418	Thanks for the speech. I am glad that Mrs Lotte Rod addresses some of the problems we have raised. But when Mrs Lotte Rod says that it is so important for us to have mixed groups of children in our institutions, how can it be that the Radicals have accepted that there must be a coercion if you live in a exposed residential area, not to have your child in a day-care centre close to your home, while there has not been a willingness for the municipality to force parents living outside the area to put their children in a day-care facility in a exposed residential area as well? Does this not mean that the entire burden of integration is placed on those who live in vulnerable residential areas, so that those who live outside are exempted from helping to solve the integration task? Is that not an unhealthy way of thinking about solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142528	I would really like to go further into the helicopter, because basically it does not make much sense for me to be radical, that this should be tied up to your postal code and to where you live, where there are rules for some people living in certain places, and other rules if you live elsewhere. When we are in the agreement, it is because we think it is good that the government should at least take the initiative that there should be any objective of mixing them. That is why I say to the Minister that we would like to take a look at the actual form of it, because I believe that we can do better than it is. But you have to make up your mind as a party, and it is then for Enhedslisten whether you believe that you get the most influence by being in the deal and influencing it, or whether you get the most influence by standing outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142610	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142613	It is clear that this consideration should always be considered. If things go in the right direction, we're in. This is where we think we are going in the wrong direction. Does the rapporteur not fear that there will be a lack of confidence and suspicion among many people living in vulnerable residential areas when they see legislation being made in such a way that parents in the surrounding society have a strengthened right to decide for themselves, but precisely because they live in a exposed residential area, they are restricted their freedom to choose? Does the rapporteur not believe that it is really countering the whole purpose because people become angry with the legislators? Instead of getting the impression that legislators are actually promoting integration, it would give the impression that we are doing the opposite when we are doing this kind of discrimination against people. Is the rapporteur not concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142713	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142715	It is actually beautiful that it is Enhedslisten who, in this debate, is fighting for the free right of parents. In fact, I believe that, as a radical, I feel that, when it comes to ensuring that we have mixed institutions throughout Denmark, I am actually willing to go quite a long way, so that they too in the municipalities can do a lot to mix them in different ways, so that we achieve our goals. However, I still fully agree with what was the first, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, namely that it does not make sense for it to be entered in the postal code, whether you live on one side or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142748	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no further comments. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009142758	Thank you. In SF we believe in community, and we believe that people must meet across communities, across cultures and across living conditions. Because when we do, it expands our horizons. We learn more about each other, and we begin to understand better: Why are we as we are? Why does she say what she does? Or why does he say what he does? To put it bluntly, it is a goal for the SF and for me that the director's daughter can play and become a boyfriend with the early retirementist's son down in the sandbox in kindergarten, just as it is good that Iman, who comes from a Muslim family, naturally meets Valdemar, who is the son of a priest, or that Flamur, who is from Bosnia and has a bad Danish, meets Josephine, who is the daughter of two academics. It is important, and I like that, and it must be one of the objectives of our day institutions, our schools and our higher education that we meet across. When we don't meet across the board, there's also a lot of talk about how it affects both understanding for each other adversely, I think, and we experience what are parallels. Much has now been said about parallel societies, and that is what I fear we will get. I also think that you can at least see this quite clearly in the research • risk getting a much worse Danish if you go to day care with someone who also has a bad Danish. Therefore, the SF's objectives from the outset and also before this period of government have been actually clear, i.e. that in the day-care sector, in the field of primary education and in the field of youth education, we believe that the children and young people should meet across. We must contribute to that, and we must set targets for that, and that is where we can go. That is a goal that can be achieved in many ways. With this proposal, which is not a problem-free one, one step along the way. I'm pretty convinced of that. For municipalities, there must be a maximum of 30 per cent in all day institutions. children from vulnerable areas, and this will, of course, mean that the children will be more mixed. Children from vulnerable residential areas will join with children who are not from vulnerable residential areas. That is the demand we are now going to make to the municipalities, that is to say, that this is the way it should be. I understand it won't be easy. I have been on a tour of Aarhus with our children's and young counsellor who has looked critically at me and said: How is this possible? That is why we have set up a conversion pool of which one can seek. I know it's not big enough, but then we'll have to work it bigger or help out there to solve it in other ways. We have helped to introduce a derogation scheme, which is about the fact that, as a municipality, if you can prove that you are already planning to change the composition of the population in an area and it will also affect the day-care institutions, then you can get a derogation and then we can achieve the goal in this way. We have also written in that way that a parent couple should be assigned to a day-care institution in the vulnerable residential areas. Although you can look at it a little critically, and I would have liked it to have been even tighter and said that it is the one you are assigned to, in order to anticipate some issues, I still think it will mean that some parents will see that something great is happening in here. The problem today is that many people do not realise all the good that is happening in the vulnerable residential areas, all the additional efforts we have set in motion, and I believe that many additional efforts will be made to achieve this objective. I can also hear that from the municipalities, that is to say that they feel the same way: no, this will work. Parents will also see this, including those who do not live in vulnerable residential areas. We were happy to go further than this. I will also say this when we are about to deal with the draft law on compulsory learning which we are not part of. We would like to see all children automatically registered to crèches because we believe that these early interventions and that what happens in the early years of the children are so important. That's why it means something to who the kids go with. I just wanted to say that I have also read the hearings and I am also in favour of this not being a problem-free situation. That is also why I asked Mrs Anni Matthiesen if we do not now have a broad political consensus that we must make adjustments along the way if there are problems. However, the goal that children must be more mixed in the day institutions, and pushing after so many years of just watching, is just so important that we are, of course, involved in this proposal, which we will also demand influence on the future. I would just like to say at the end, because it does not really say in my speech that the alternative rapporteur said that we are not ambitious enough: we are not ambitious enough in residential areas to combat parallel societies. I can really get a little tired of that word parallel society, but I just have to say that I just don't understand that. We are looking at day-care institutions, we are looking at schools, we have changed that we are going to deal with it in the Parliamentary Chamber on Thursday ■ the requirements for when it is a exposed residential area, what to do, and we may not agree on all the measures, but that one can say that we are not doing anything, while at the same time you yourself are not doing anything and have no idea what to do for the general housing areas, I simply do not understand. Then the rapporteur also says that the rapporteur has no objection to making political criteria from in here which we can then make housing policy, for example. to allow some of the resourceful to move in while the rapporteur says that we should not discriminate against others. What is termed flexible rental, which is the principle, is precisely what the rapporteur's party has been saying was discrimination, even though it has been used out in reality for many years to secure more mixed residential areas. So if the rapporteur's party has begun to move there, I would think it was wonderful. Then we will continue to work on all policy areas to ensure that we have more mixed general housing areas, which will also have positive consequences for day-care institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143401	There are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143408	Thank you. Now, of course, this could quickly become a debate between the Alternative and the SF, but let us not do so here in Parliament today, when we are dealing with a legislative proposal that we must all deal with. My point was that if the rapporteur thought that we have done enough so far to get more mixed residential areas in Denmark, then I disagree. Now the rapporteur said that the end justifies the means and that the rapporteur is very concerned about the best interests of the child. But when you read the hearing answers to this bill, you see that BUPL, KL, the parents' country organization FOLA, the Children's Council, the Children's and Culture Managers' Association are all out with some serious warning lights in relation to this bill. So perhaps I do not quite understand why the rapporteur says that it is the best interests of the child that we take into account when we read the answers to the hearings, because then we think that this has serious negative consequences on the child's best interests when we listen to those answers. Does that not concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143513	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143515	Firstly, no, we have not done enough for the general housing areas. I thought so even before I joined the Folketing, and that is why we are in many of these agreements to strengthen the vulnerable residential areas, so that people will live more mixed in Denmark. We have not done enough at all, nor have we done enough with the agreements we have made now. In relation to this part of the package, which is about children going to more mixed day care institutions, I have read that there are a lot of people who are afraid that there are day care institutions that are going to close. I don't share the fear. I mean, it may be that someone is going to close, or a few are going to close, but I think what is going to happen is that in some places you want to remodel, in some places you will get a derogation, and elsewhere the municipalities will invest so much in these institutions that it becomes really attractive for people to be out there. I also believe that the whole package we have made will mean that the population composition will change. And then you don't get hit by this legislation. So that's one thing. The second is that BUPL also recommends that we invest in the vulnerable day care institutions. We already have an agreement on social standards, and we must continue to work down that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143618	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143620	I agree entirely with the latter, and I also said that from the platform. Of course, we must invest massively in the institutions in the vulnerable areas. But I just have to come back to my question. For, as I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur says that he disagrees with what BUPL, FOLA, the Children's Council, writes in their hearing answer. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143642-2	No, what I said was that I certainly don't share the fear. I mean, much of what I read from them is that you're really afraid that vulnerable day institutions will close. And I'm not sure it's going that way. I believe that everything that we are doing now for vulnerable residential areas, including what is being decided on Thursday, and with new legislation for residential areas, with social standards, with this package, will actually solve some of the problems we have today. I don't think as many as these hearings say are going to close. But, of course, we are going to talk to the people who have written the consultation answers along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143714	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143718	It is also for the practical side of the proposal. I understand that the rapporteur is not worried that institutions will close down, but now that the legislation has been tightened up, there must be no more than 30% in the vulnerable housing areas, which is also the case in all other institutions. from the area of those newly enrolled, how does the rapporteur even imagine that it will be possible to register seven children outside these areas for every three people who are enrolled from the area, when it is the case that some rules have been drawn up so that children outside the area cannot really be searched for these institutions? How the hell could that be?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143806	Well, first of all, and I'm gonna be honest with you, I'd have liked to make tighter searching rules. I would have liked to have said that we should be able to point into that area because it is good for the municipality, and it is good for the children to meet children from all walks of life. I believe that there are several things that make it possible to work towards it. The first is that it is possible to point this out and that parents outside the vulnerable residential areas realise that there are actually some nice day-to-day offers in there. The day-to-day offers will have social norms, and I wonder if the municipalities will invest extra, in order to avoid closures. These will be places where you might be able to remodel, so that there will be better facilities. I'm not saying it can't be a problem. I am perhaps the first to say that it may also be that some people close because we want the children to be more mixed. I just don't think I share the fear as much as the hearing answers say, because I think we're getting some more attractive day-to-day offers in the residential areas of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143858	Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143858-2	I really hope that Mr. Jacob Mark is right, because it would be really bad if institutions were to close in these areas. But when you look at the figures and the 29 institutions that lie in the vulnerable residential areas after the figures given by the Ministry I wonder if it might be a little more, it is, in turn, 100 more, which have actually already reached 30% today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why I would like to hear: is it the case that the SF will require the law to be renegotiated if institutions start to close?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009143946	I told you, we're gonna keep looking at the law. You have to, when you make a law that's so complex. And then I would say that I still believe that the vast majority of day institutions will make it because extra investment is being made in them. Then the rapporteur says that it is bad if some day institutions close. I would say that if there has not been investment in a day-care institution, if it is old buildings, and it is a place where you just do not have a mixed group of children, and it has not gone well, then you have already seen in some vulnerable residential areas today that you are actually closing for the sake of education, and then I am not sure that it is so bad. But you have to take it on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144024	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144027	I think the problem is comprehensive, and I am glad that Jacob Mark has been to Aarhus to visit SF's councilman. It may be that there is an occasion for another visit, because if you look at what is in the Jyllands-Posten today, Thomas Medom doubts that it will reach 70 per cent. of the children come from these exposed areas. It's 18-19 daycare facilities in Aarhus, it's about this is actually massive. I think it's a risky field, but it's moving into here. And when you have debates in the public sector that degrade certain residential areas, it makes it a little harder to get parents from outside to see that there may be some good offers in an area that they are a little insecure about. I am very concerned that all the public debate on these vulnerable residential areas means that what we are about to adopt is an impossibility. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should not have gone a completely different way, simply put the maximum pressure on improving the institutions in the vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144137	Improvements must be made to the institutions in the vulnerable residential areas, and this is also the case. Additional social norms have already been introduced, and I bet that the municipalities will now also be investing extra in the day-care institutions located in the areas because they will be subject to this law. Then I just want to say about Aarhus. After all, there are places in Aarhus where new day institutions have been built in areas where there is a clear development plan to change the composition of the population, that is, what is the goal for us, namely to ensure that people live more mixed. That is precisely where we have said that if you do so, that is to say if you make such a development plan to change the composition of the population, you can get a derogation. And then you have to remember that this is in the future, because you have a number of years before then to change this. All in all, I just think that this legislation is going to make children more mixed up in day care institutions and that people live more mixed up in residential areas. Like sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen I think that many of the places are lovely areas. So I don't have that fear that people won't move in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144231	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144234	Well, it's about so many residential areas that I'm pretty sure things will go wrong in some places. I also find it strange to come to a residential area which has just been completely renovated and where you want to attract new residents, and then you can get into a situation where the day-care institution, which is part of the overall good solution for the local area, is at risk of being shut down or at risk of having too few children to run it. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a huge problem if only 30 per cent are to be taken into account? of seats in a day-care institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144305	But if you have a residential area in which you have put a development plan to change the composition of the population and where you have invested in today's offers, then you have a reason to apply for a derogation. Even for them, it will also be a goal to ensure that there is a more mixed mass of children in the day care institution, precisely for the sake of both children and pedagogy. So I'm not so worried, I'll just have to say it again. I do not think it will be easy, but I do believe that we have actually made some reservations which make it possible to navigate in this, otherwise we, those who are the consultative parties and the conciliation parties, must talk along the way to correct this, so that we reach the goal, but without making it difficult out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144343	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. We move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144355	Thank you. It's always a bit of a challenge to come here and be the last one. Then there is a great risk of repeating some of what has been said, but you must bear that in mind. As several speakers have said, the draft law here is a proposal that will help prevent and break down parallel societies. It has to be, among other things. know that children living in vulnerable residential areas need to develop their language and learning readiness to a greater extent, and they need to become acquainted with Danish traditions, standards and values already in young children's age, precisely so that they are better equipped to start school in relation to language and learning readiness. This is done by ensuring a better distribution in the day institutions, where children from these vulnerable residential areas come in daily offers where Danish is spoken. That is why it is proposed to introduce a maximum of 30 per cent. newly taken children in the day care centre from a exposed residential area. We are doing this precisely because it is important that we make efforts in this area for the sake of children, so that they are better equipped when they go on to primary and further education and to the labour market later into their lives. So the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144527	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144530	Thank you. The rapporteur says it is for the children. Then I just want to hear how it contributes to the good children's life, that instead of going down to the day care center that your parents had set out in the neighborhood, you have to get into such a ghetto-children's garden with this new proposal. How is it for the child's sake that you choose to make that priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144556	Now it is the case that we have a lot of talented educators and educators employed around our day offers in the various municipalities. I now believe that a good educational work can be done with children, whether you are employed in a day-care institution located inside a exposed residential area or outside. Actually, I think they can figure out how to handle that, so that all children get the good child life and a good start to life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144627	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144629	We have a great many skilled staff groups around in our day offer, I fully agree with that. But does the rapporteur not think that there is a reason why these parents have so far chosen to send their children to their local kindergarten at the end of the villa road instead of driving them into the ghetto area? Does the rapporteur not believe that there has been a reason for the choice that has been made? And why is it that you now have to be forced into something other than what you would rather do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144655	Now it is so, and it is important to make it clear that this bill also contains the fact that if you live outside this exposed residential area, you will actually be entitled to two offers. So you're not forced to do that if that's not what you want to do. Now I am fortunate that I am also in the municipal council of my own municipality, and we have had the distribution and still have it away by pupils who have to start in schools, and also in the day-off area we have tried to make an effort. And there I can at least see that there are actually parents with ethnic Danish children who want to help solve this challenge. So I'm not so negative about trying to figure this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144750	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009144803	I have to say, what a fine platform. Yet it is spectacular to stand and experience the new platform like this for the first time. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a very lively and also very open debate. I very much appreciate that, and I would also like to acknowledge the very constructive input that has come along, as well as the constructive debate that has been going on. The bill introduces a ceiling of 30%. resuming children living in vulnerable residential areas in each day institution during a calendar year. In addition, municipalities are also required to offer children living outside a exposed residential area two places if one is in a daycare centre in a exposed residential area. The challenge of combating parallel societies is significant, and I do not hear a single rapporteur argue against that either. The question is just how we actually deal with that challenge. For as has been said by several, among others. of SF's Jacob Mark, this is part of a larger plan to combat parallel societies. As Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen also said, it does not go with communities where people live in parallel with each other. We need to ensure greater confusion. I think we have to note, for example, that we have not succeeded in this task, because today we have schools which have a very, very high proportion of pupils from a particular residential area. That is why it is also a significant proposal that we have before us today. We are aware that there may be a challenge for some of the municipalities, which is why the municipalities and the day institutions have the opportunity to apply for a derogation from the rules, and also to apply for the loan application pool of 200 million. kr. in 2019-20. Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radicals then said that this bill was a little too square and that there was a little too little time. I would really like to address these two parts, because it is for a little more technical reasons that the draft law will come into force as from 1 January. But it will not be until 1 January 2020 that the rules on this 30% ceiling apply. So from this agreement has been concluded and for the rules to come into force with the new entry into force, there are therefore 11⁄2 years that you have to prepare. Then the derogation has also been released. We have thus listened to the hearings that have been held where some have asked whether it was not a little too tight. We have thus made it more flexible. Some will even be able to accuse the government that it might even become too flexible, i.e. that it will be easy. Some might even say that it will be too easy to seek a derogation. But I would say that it will still be the case to demonstrate that there is a very, very solid plan to dismantle a parallel society in order to obtain that derogation. And there are several other things that apply in order to be granted a derogation. But thank you for the good debate today. I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a more positive development in this area, so that children get a better start, and I am, of course, available to answer questions which the committee would like to see clarified during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145131	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145134	Thank you. I have a very specific question for Article 26a, paragraph 2. 4, where it is proposed that the self-owned and outsourced day-care institutions and private institutions, where the statutes state that the institution's purpose is to accommodate the employees of one or more undertakings, will not be subject to the 30-percent requirement. I would really just like to know why it has been decided to make such a scheme, whereby a private institution that is to accommodate a particular group of employees in a particular company should be exempted from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145212	This is typical because they are located in certain areas where there are some large companies and that they have been created for some particular reasons. So that should be the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145221	Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145221-2	Thank you. So if you set up a private institution in the Gellerup Park, which aims to accommodate employees working in the Bazar West, then you will be exempt from this requirement. Can the Minister see that it is a very plausible scenario that such an institution will be set up to accommodate staff in the Bazar West and that it will certainly not be conducive to what is the purpose of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145252	Plausible, I don't think it's gonna be. I think it might even be said that it is perhaps a little speculative. But I can assure you that if this happens, it will be followed up very intensively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145310	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145313	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the government for actually changing the scope for derogation, in line with what has been said in the hearings. In fact, I think it is appropriate to commend the government for having listened to that part. Then there are some other parts that have not been listened to so much and that I would like to ask about. This is among other things. The Children's Council, which writes that they are concerned that it may actually have some negative consequences for children's everyday lives, i.e. children living in socially vulnerable residential areas, because they have to have such long transport to and from their day care centre. What does the Minister think about that? Is the Minister not concerned that it can actually have a rather negative effect on children's everyday lives that they simply need to spend so much time on transport? The second concern, which is also contained in the consultation answers, is that they do not have this strong connection with their local environment, in that they have to go to daycare facilities far away.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145405-2	I have been very pleased to reply to that, because there has been such a fundamental view throughout the debate that as parents you could choose exactly the day offer you would like, that is to say, that there is a completely free choice in the day offer area. In other words, when the municipalities plan and have their places, there are a number of considerations on which they base, which are, moreover, very different in the way they plan today. Geography, for example, can be a consideration. Siblings can be a criterion. Socioeconomic variables can also be a criterion. So, even today, it is actually possible to make such a local authorising rule. Now we are just making a national authorising rule, and on top of that we are actually giving the possibility that if you live outside a exposed residential area, you will have the opportunity to choose both inside the exposed residential area and outside the exposed residential area. You haven't actually had that opportunity before. This will, in fact, give a better opportunity to those parents who, in the past, might even have been assigned to the exposed residential area without being able to say no and would also have had a long journey time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145516	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145518	However, this applies to parents who live outside the exposed residential areas, for those who live inside them do not have the same opportunities. We agree on that. You know, in most places today, you can choose x number of day institutions, and so it's just a matter of waiting until there's room. Then I fully agree that if you have to go back to work after six months, you are more limited in relation to free elections. But if you have the time to wait, you can choose three institutions that are close to where you live. That's the way it is today. So it is just to say that there is a great deal of choice in order to be able to choose the close institutions. After all, there are no families living in the vulnerable residential areas in relation to this bill. So I would just like to hear again from the Minister whether the Minister is not concerned about the importance for children's everyday life that they should go into institution far away.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145605	The same goes for the children who live in a exposed residential area and who have been referred out in the past and who have therefore not been given an authorising rule. Now there will be an authorising rule. However, this does not alter the fact that, in the past too, there has not necessarily been a free choice in the area of day-to-day offers. The municipalities have had to plan all days, especially the City of Copenhagen has had to plan every day, and there have been a lot of parents who have thought it was right, really a shame to have to have a very long journey time over a very large area, where it took a long time to get to the institution, because it was there that a place was assigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145650	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145650-2	I also welcome the inclusion of derogations. I would like the Minister to be able to give some thought to what has been going on. Is this a recognition that institutional operations will not actually be maintained in the vulnerable residential areas with the agreement that was originally in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145713	At any rate, it is a recognition that this bill must also fit in with reality. After all, I or the government have no intention of making a bill that ends up being very, very difficult for the municipalities. The most important thing for me in this whole debate on parallel societies is that we are going to see massive changes, and that is also what is being demanded in the debate, i.e. that we have broken down parallel societies, that there is change. By inserting this derogation, we will be able to obtain a derogation if we are already well on the way in the municipalities and can demonstrate it over a five-year period, that is to say, that we are taking concrete decisions to prevent parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145759	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145802	Several municipalities also today express satisfaction with the derogation in Jyllands-Posten. I would really like to hear how many institutions the Minister assesses will close now that the bill is being presented, as is the case with the exemption option. The Ministry must have made an estimate of how many institutions are closed with this proposal, and is it the case that there is some kind of pain limit in which it is said that when we do so, it will be necessary to change the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145833	For good reasons, we cannot know what the reality will be. I also believe that we should be fully aware that the institutions which will be affected will probably start to make themselves attractive to the outside world in the first place, starting with a new customer base, if you have to call it that, in other words, ensuring that there are simply parents outside the vulnerable residential areas who are actively electing the institutions. You can do that in different ways. You can do this by renovating institutions that need a renovation, you can do it by investing in staff, you can do it by making exodus children's gardens, profile children's gardens and a number of other things. So there are plenty of options before you get to a closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145915	We thank the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145928	The debate is open. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009145941	Thank you. We know that the first years of a child's life are crucial in giving it a good start in life. Unfortunately, too many are still not given the same opportunities as other children. 10% of all children between 1 and 2 years of age are cared for at home. It may be a good solution for some, but for many it will be an even better solution to come into day care with skilled educators and play and socialization with other children. We're gonna stand on the side of the kids in this discussion. I'm not afraid we'll make demands on parents if that means that their child can get a better start in life. They are the ones who lose if they are kept at home and never get a chance to do as well as their peers. This bill is a step on the way. Preferably we would have gone further. I believe, in fact, that compulsory pay-up for all children would be a real step on the way, and I believe that a high-quality day offer of this nature would be a good idea for all children at risk. But this is a real step along the way, and I think we can use this as a lever for better opportunities in the lives of many of these children. We note, then, that many of the consultation responses are positive about intention, but concerned about the method. I am not so worried about the mandatory element. I will always choose the best interests of the child, if that is what is considered to be at stake. In terms of whether it is hassle and bureaucratic, I think that as politicians we should listen very carefully and also follow it very carefully when it comes to working in reality, because I certainly do not want to impose that on our day institutions, which already have a lot of trouble. So if we can land this in a place where we give some kids a better chance in life than they do today, even if we use a mandatory element and at the same time make it as easy as possible for the people who should have these children in their hands in everyday life, then I think we're really on our way. I think it's important when we discuss this bill to stick to the fact that it's an offer to come down and play with all of our other kids. It is not a separate offer, you are not placed over in a corner for yourself. But that is precisely why I also find it difficult to understand the claim that it should be coercion. I myself deliver my children into institution in the morning and believe that the educators they meet do good for them, stimulate them, develop them, use the learning plans we have jointly adopted in a very good framework. I want this for as many children as possible, and especially children coming from vulnerable homes, where you may not always have the same resources and the same profits. That's why the Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150315	There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150320	Thank you. I was quite amazed at the social democracy in these negotiations. I'll tell you what. It actually started with what I think was a good and progressive move by the government to have day offers for children in vulnerable residential areas that should be free of charge. And what the Social Democrats are now recommending is compulsory learning where you have to be 25 hours. If the child is less, the parents must be retired. If the child is there more and we talk very little more... they have to pay for it themselves. There is no demand for the same educational curricula that we normally support in this Chamber, nor is there the same requirement for parental influence on the parents who send their children there. So my question is, what went wrong? Why did we end up here? Why was it so important for Social Democracy not to have free day offers but compulsory learning opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150415	This is a way to provide a free, compulsory daily offer also to those children who have parents who would otherwise not choose it. I hope, in fact, that most of the efforts we have in progress will be unfolded even more out there locally, so that parents of their own will see the value of the child coming out among other children in a high-quality day offer. In practical terms, I hope that we will need the element of coercion as little as possible. But I still believe that even if parents cannot see the value of it, but that it is estimated that there is not enough stimulation, enough development, then the child must go. Because it's about the child's best interests, and it's about the opportunities the child gets in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150510	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150512	We agree that it is good for children to make daily offers. That's why I was happy with the government's proposal for free day offers for vulnerable children. But what the Social Democrats saw as a factor in negotiating is not a day offer. It is not a day-to-day offer that the Social Democratic Party will legislate on today; it is a learning offer where one does not have a requirement for educational curricula, as one has in day-to-day provision, where there is no parental influence, as there are today offers, where it is not free of charge, if one is there for more than 25 hours, but where it costs parental benefit if one is there for less. So now I ask again: why did it go from being a good day offer and the idea of day offers to being a mandatory learning offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150553	It is pure technique in terms of what is possible when it is to be done for free. It is a question of the mechanisms we have in the field of primary education, where it is compulsory to teach; there is compulsory education. If you extend it to our young children too, not in the sense that they have to sit with books, but so that they have to be stimulated and developed, just as we do with the curricula for all the other children, then this is how you can knit it together. I do not want a rich offer where the children who are in mandatory learning offers sit separately in the corner separated from the others. Not at all. But that is not the way I read the bill that is here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150633	Then it's Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150635	No, and if we know our educators out there right, that's not real either. You should know them badly if you do not know that the educators in Danish day care institutions will include those children in everyday life. So maybe I'm not so worried about that part of it, despite the fact that you can give Mr. Jacob Mark is right that the rights in the written down should be the same. However, I would like to ask you about the compulsion element, because the rapporteur is somewhat contradicting himself. First of all, the rapporteur says that there is no compulsion, and then the rapporteur says that if it is necessary, then we must force it. So if it were for the Social Democratic Party alone it rarely does, but if it did then the Social Democratic Party would have preferred a solution where it was an offer, but not a mandatory offer, understood that one was not drawn into the child benefit if one did not accept it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150724	As a Social Democrat, I believe that we should take the best interests of the child first. That is to say, I am in favour of compulsory updating in day care; that you should have the opportunity, of course, to have your child at home, but that it should be assessed whether the child is stimulated and developed. If it doesn't, then in the end, according to me, you have to be able to say: your child is better off being in an institution for a few hours each week.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150748	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150750	Thank you. That was a clear answer. Thank you for that. But now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur is in favour of the best interests of the child, and then it can be said that if we read out which institutions are opposed to this bill, then it is all the institutions that are in the best interests of the child. It's BUPL, it's BUPL's management association, it's FOA, it's the Children's and Culture Manager's Association, FOLA, the Children's Council, Selveje Denmark, Danish Refugee Aid, Denmark's Counselling Association, the Council of Social Vulnerables, the Department of Human Rights, all of which either speak directly against it or have concerns. Does it not in any way affect the rapporteur that there is such a massive criticism of this bill from the organisations that are responsible for the child's best interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150830	I am very aware that the element about how much one lets parents decide how much one forces down on a family where one considers that the child is not sufficiently stimulated from home is controversial, but I think so much. This is about our children and the children who do not get enough from home, I think we have a joint responsibility to give something extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150854	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150856	I think it is sympathetic to take the child's best interests as a starting point, but how can it be that if you live at a specific address, it is in the best interests of the child that it should be in a compulsory learning offer. If you move to yes, 20 m down the street, suddenly it is no longer in your child's best interests to be in a mandatory learning offer. How do you arrive at such a definition of the child's best interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150926	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that this should be something we considered for vulnerable children, regardless of where they live in our country. This is what could be done in this context. However, as a Social Democrat, I do not believe that a exposed child outside a exposed residential area needs less support as a community if the home does not provide the adequate care and development that we think a child should be entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009150958	Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151000	But isn't that exactly the consequence of the bill? In other words, when it is the case that you go in and define the best interests of the child, not on the basis of a professional assessment of the child's needs, but only on the basis of the population register address at which the child lives, is it not a complete laxation of the concept of the best interests of the child and the complete abolition of any reasonable professional judgement of the child's best interests, when it is all about the postal number alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151029	As I said, I share the rapporteur's concern about all the vulnerable children living outside these areas, and I would have liked us to broaden our efforts even further. But I do not think that is an argument in itself, so to say no to actually doing something special in our vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151046	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151048	The Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party have, together, been involved in the amendment of the day-offer law and have helped to clear up these concepts. I'm very happy about that. That is why I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats are now going to be involved in a legislative proposal which calls for special efforts to be made for these children to be pulled out of the children's community. How does the Social Democrats feel it is escaping with the proposal for a new day-off law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151113	Thank you for the good cooperation to clear out the concepts. I am also very proud and pleased that we succeeded together. I do not believe that this is a question of pulling children out of children's communities; on the contrary, it is the intention that more people should be involved in children's communities. The fact that you so legally call it what you do is due to the fact that it has a special character and should be free of charge for these families. That is what the law is based on, but in practice, as a result of this, I hope, more children are part of a community of children in their everyday lives than there are today, and especially children who actually need it extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151154	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151156	That's why I'm just surprised that it's part of this bill that you're suggesting that the municipalities as part of these 25 hours can make a specially targeted offer for these kids, because then the consequence is that they're not with the other kids and have a very ordinary day in the day care institution, but need to have a special effort. So don't we risk it being a concept?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151221	I do not think there is a risk that it will be a concept such as the one we have together done a great deal to combat. It was foreign-developed concepts that cost a fortune and that were laid down on our civil servants and our children. On the contrary, I hope that the result of this will be that there will be more children coming out of the home and into a community of children, while at the same time taking into account the extra needs of these children, for example. gives them additional language stimulation so that they are given the best opportunities in life in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151250	Then we thank Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and go on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151259	Being able to speak and understand Danish is one of the most important prerequisites for being able to do well and behave in Denmark. Therefore, it is important that all children in Denmark are supported in learning the language as early as possible, regardless of the background you have and which family you grow up in. I think parents want the best of their children as a starting point. Most people are fully aware that as parents they must help to support a linguistic development in their child. Some may find it harder and need support. A small group of parents may not consider being able to Danish as essential and will therefore exclude their children from many opportunities in future life. The latter must prevent the adoption of this proposal. It must be possible for a child, regardless of family background, to have the best possible conditions for a good start to life. Today, unfortunately, some of the children born in certain geographical areas in Denmark from early life are put behind on several parameters, and this should not be the case. When the government presented its ghettoud game, the Danish People's Party chose to engage constructively in a negotiation process, and with the proposal we are discussing today, we have changed some of what we believe is essential to give children a good child life, but also to ensure that the foundation for a life in Denmark as part of the community of which we have a tradition is created. When the agreement was announced, critical voices were quickly out. Some said that now we would learn 1-year-olds about the Constitution, others were talking about punishment. Let me make it clear that what was important for the Danish People's Party was that the children enrolled in the compulsory learning services are given the opportunity to participate in the activities, games and routines that characterise a child's life in the institution. If you do not know about the Danish traditions, which often characterise everyday life in other children's lives, there is an obvious possibility in the institution that children are introduced to it in learning offers. It can be festivals such as Christmas and Easter that are marked in the institution, or birthdays with song and flaglifting. When, in addition to traditions, standards and values are mentioned, it is because it is important to be part of our community. That is why it is a pity that some people, as a mother, would have been very concerned about teaching my children from the very young, about co-responsibility, co-determination, respect for others, regardless of gender, and I am sure that it is well spent in the long run if parents have that approach. It should not be at a high theoretical level, but as a natural part of everyday life and the upbringing of your children. It is regrettable that some people regard this as a proposal that penalises parents. For me, it is rather a hand-out to the parents who are living in a exposed residential area and have not had their child enrolled, perhaps because they are not aware of how much it can contribute to the well-being of the whole family, but primarily improve their child's ability to do well in life. The involvement of parents in the process is quite natural in order to make them understand why it is important to know the language and the country in which they live. My expectation is that they will soon be able to see that it is good and that they will choose to register their child in a full care offer with the many benefits that can be gained from it. The Danish People's Party stressed in the negotiations that the parents who live in the selected areas and who master the tasks for which a mandatory learning offer should otherwise be provided should have the opportunity to have their child at home, and this has also been met. Of course, we believe that this should be done in a sound manner, and this is, of course, also set out in the draft law. However, there has also been a part in the creation and implementation of this proposal, which the Danish People's Party has been less enthusiastic about, and it is that the learning offer must be free of charge. We have asked several questions about this and, despite the answers, we are still not enthusiastic about that part. But this is justified every time by the fact that if you had parental payments, it would be unconstitutional, and then, of course, we have had to accept it, since of course we do not compromise with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151715	Thank you to Mrs Karin Nødgaard. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151725	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are discussing here is a change in the day-off law and the law on child and young people's benefits. The bill is part of the government's overall action against parallel societies and aims to ensure that more children from vulnerable residential areas are offered daily. Among other things, it can be done. help to ensure that they develop their Danish language skills and become more learning ready before starting school, and this can help them to dress significantly better at school as well, but for that matter also in the further course, possibly in the education system or in the labour market. With this bill, we want to introduce a mandatory learning offer for 1-year-old children in vulnerable residential areas, thus helping to ensure that these children come into closer contact with other children and thus also improve their language before starting school. I am sure that this bill will help to raise children from these vulnerable residential areas. In fact, we are giving a great deal of help to the children. We ensure that they are more learning ready when they start in kindergarten class. I believe that the experience we already have shows that this is, in fact, a great opportunity to ensure that even more children become part of the community as there are in the various day-to-day services. So with that I would say that the Left supports the bill, and then I have just promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151924	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151926	I would like to hear from the rapporteur: now that you have the liberal outlook that I know the rapporteur, is it not very, very intrusive that we as a society should decide whether parents should put their children in day care? Does the rapporteur not consider that we are moving there on the limit of what society should actually be able to commit parents to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009151958	That's how you can choose to look at it. In fact, contrary to what I have to say, we have a responsibility to ensure that these children get off to a good start. In fact, I think that we have been in a situation for many years, where we have seen that these children would otherwise get far behind in school and, for that matter, lag behind from day one when they started school. That is why we can turn it around and say: we may not have done what has been best for the children so far in these areas, but I think we are actually doing that with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152037	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152038	I recognise that point of view, but if it is so important that we take responsibility, why should we only assume responsibility for children living on certain postal numbers? Why is it not the case that there is a professional educational assessment on the basis of which such instructions are to be made, rather than that it is merely a question of where the citizen in question lives? Is it not a strange way of assessing responsibility that it is therefore a matter of residence and not of the needs of the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152111	I can easily see that this might just as well have been introduced in general across the country, but I would say that we know with the experience that we have that it is primarily children from these areas who are having a really difficult time starting school. They are backwards in language, and there are for that matter some examples that there are actually children who, when they start in the nursery class, even though they may have lived in this country since they were born, cannot speak Danish. In fact, I think that with this, we are giving a helping hand to the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152149	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152152	Thank you. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. But why use coercion? then my follow-up question will be, because that question has also been asked over here. Well, I think we all agree that we have some challenges. It's a good thing when some of these vulnerable children go to day care, but is there no other solution but to use coercion? So, what if we used all the funds and resources we invest in this project, in this effort, to strengthen healthcare professionals and let healthcare professionals do the strong, outreach work, the strong efforts, at home with families, so make the offer? If you say no, then come to the families with some offers. Why is it not that you go that way instead of going by force?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152237	I would like to start by saying that we are playing a lot of horses in this game that we have come up with to fight parallel societies. I can't list them all, but there's a lot of tools in the game we're dealing with. Some of the things that we, among other things... It has also ensured that more funding is also provided to recruit more educators in the socially burdened day care institutions, and that the healthcare provider can actually get more on the ground. So I actually think, in general terms, that with the various legislative proposals that we are going to deal with in this Chamber, we are doing a lot of different things that are going to make this work in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152326	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152327	My main point is that I think it's a shame that you start using coercion. I think it is really a pity that you do not start with some other solutions on something that is voluntary, so you try to reach these families that way. I think that's just a cardinal point for us. Another question I would like to ask is a little along the lines of that, Mr President. Jakob Silverhøj asked, and that is: What about the vulnerable children living outside the socially vulnerable residential areas? Well, they don't get this offer, and we know that because it's in the bill, but why don't we help them? Well, what do we do for them? For there are, after all, plenty of vulnerable children living outside the exposed residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152406	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152408	We have to say that the reason why we have also used this drastic tool, which is now using force, is that we have been able to see for many, many years that what was done has not worked. It is a drastic tool to take up the toolbox, but we do, of course, because with this bill we basically want the best for the children, and I think that is important to hold on to that. And why are we not doing this in general? That is because we are now putting in where there is the greatest need. And, as I mentioned earlier, we are also giving more money to the socially burdened day care institutions elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152446	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152454	With this bill, I think that the government, the parties to the agreement, is in fact stepping on the ideal of freedom which has otherwise been so vigorously invoked in the political debate about the interventions being made to the citizens of the non-profit-making residential areas that the government has labeled as vulnerable. This is not just a question of discrimination in terms of the opportunities for parents to have a day-care centre for their children near the area where they live; we talked about this in the previous draft law. This means that as legislators we must be able to force parents to send their children into special educational services in the institutions against the will of parents, simply because they live in a particular residential area, and then even impose financial sanctions on parents if they do not work together. The draft law involves obvious discrimination, and I think it must be almost incredibly cross-border for parties who pride themselves on having a liberal outlook on life. Is society really going to decide whether to send your children into today's services simply because you live in certain residential areas? a professional evaluation of the child's best interests? I believe that probably all parties here agree that daily offers can play a key role in children's development, both in the short term and also in a full life perspective. That is why I also find it extremely regrettable that the government is choosing a path that is subject to coercion and sanctions, rather than choosing to invest in strengthening the outreach work, strengthening dialogue with parents, and so I think it is really a pity that the children concerned are not being invested in ordinary day-to-day offers rather than the reduced 25-hour learning offer. This should give the parties behind the bill some thought when the Children's and Culture Managers' Association, who are the ones responsible for the day-to-day running of the municipalities' day-to-day services, writes that they regard the bill as stigmatising to the citizens of the vulnerable residential areas, and it should also make an impression when the Children's Council calls the proposal unacceptable and points out that parents' responsibility is best supported through dialogue rather than coercion and sanctions. The warnings against the consequences of the proposal here actually go back into consultation responses after consultation responses. Among other things, it stresses that the proposal risks creating opposition to the institutions and distrust of the teaching staff, which could undermine the possibility of establishing trusting cooperation between parents and staff, which we all know is absolutely vital if educational efforts are to bear fruit. The whole approach of the bill to parents also seems incomprehensible, given that families in vulnerable residential areas are already very much making use of the daily offers. We can see in notes from the Ministry of Social Affairs that, in the case of the 3-4 year olds, the proportion of children who go to day care is actually larger among children in the vulnerable residential areas than it is among the children outside, and that when it comes to the two year olds, it is balanced at roughly the same level. And then I fully understand that when we look at the proportion among the 1-year-olds, yes, the search for day offers is less in the vulnerable residential areas, and we recognise that in the Enhedslisten is a problem that we have to address. We just think that what we need to do is to strengthen health care, which is the most brilliant institution in relation to this task. We need to strengthen the searching efforts of the day institutions, and then we need to improve the quality of the institutions, among other things. by implementing social norms which give a special boost, both in terms of norms and in relation to the number of staff with educational training. In short, there are plenty of opportunities to increase the positive role of daily offers in vulnerable residential areas. I think it is really a pity that the parties behind this proposal have chosen to use the day-institutional area to conduct symbolic policy instead of using it to carry out an offensive preventive action. That's a great shame. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152937	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009152946	As a liberal, it is certainly not unproblematic to want to force parents to send their children to day care. On the one hand, there should be fairly extensive rights for parents to adapt as they see fit and to raise their own children. And it is not natural law that it is better to have children in day care. On the other hand, we face a challenge: the challenge of having children who are not socially, professionally or linguistically ready to participate in compulsory education when they start primary school. Children who are far behind at the start of their school life are much worse off in order to do well. This is of great importance for children's opportunities for education and jobs in the long term. And those kids have some rights too. The problem we are trying to address here is quite specific. You might object to this law that there are a lot of children who face the same challenges as those who live in the vulnerable areas and who are not covered by it here, and that is, of course, right. However, as I said, it is important for us not only to force all children into day care. You could call this a kind of risk-based approach. We think this is sensible and in the Liberal Alliance we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153111	There's a comment from Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153115	When I got acquainted with the Liberal Alliance, I remember that one of the main issues was the debureaucratisation of the public sector. We had to have less bureaucracy, and it was supposed to be influenced by all the legislation that the Liberal Alliance was supposed to be involved in. This proposal started with a day offer, where the children were to come into a day offer like all other children. Now it has ended up being a law that children enter 25 hours; the 25 hours must be organized in a certain way, and if the children are fewer hours, the manager must know, and it must be watched, because then the parents must be paid, but if it is exactly more, i.e. just one minute more in line with the law, then they must also know it up at the municipality, because then they must pay for it. I would like to hear: does the rapporteur, like me, believe that this bill will create much more bureaucracy in today's institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153209	Yeah, I think so. And it was not the government's proposal that has now ended up as an agreement, because it is absolutely right that this should mean more bureaucracy than what the government had proposed and which we thought was a better solution than what we have ended up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153225	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153227	Thank you. I am glad to hear that, because then we will agree that that part of the bill is not so wise. Then I'd like to hear about something else. After all, in this Chamber we agree on the educational curricula, and we also agree with the whole sector that it is very good that we have made these new teaching plans because it strengthens teaching. Those children, who are some of the most vulnerable, whom the rapporteur is also talking about, and whom we would like to help by putting them into these offers, should not be subject to these educational curricula, they should not have the same pedagogy. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153258	What you have done with this agreement is a separate learning process that focuses on broader things than the learning plans that you already have in the day institutions. For the parties involved in the agreement, it has been the case that there have been other things that have been important, and that is why a new model has now been drawn up for this. I think that it was better for these children to just come in and become part of the really good offer, which is in the vast majority of day care institutions. But this is a start, and I hope that this can have more children in day care, and that hopefully you don't have to have this new model at all later.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153336	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153343	Thank you. We fully agree with the intentions of this bill, namely that children must be given the best opportunity to make good progress in life. We also know that research shows that it is healthy for most children to go to crèches and go to day care in relation to how they do when they go on in their education. But the solutions are not the right ones. Force can never be a solution, and this is coercion. This is a matter of freedom... freedom to choose for themselves and for your children. It is a question of the state not deciding whether or not your child should go to crèche, and in this way it will be here again and we have been there before, and we will probably again have a fundamental discussion about what comes first, the liberal freedoms, the right to choose one's own life, as long as it does not harm others, as long as others have the same freedom, against some political ideologies and one goal justifies the means or position. I think we have heard it several times in today's debate, namely that the end justifies the means, and there we should just ask ourselves, first of all, whether that is what we want. If we make that stand every time freedoms are at stake, we have no freedoms left, because in my optics and in our optics of the alternative, freedoms are below the political solutions, political ideologies. That is not to say that there are not challenges that we need to solve, but as Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, there are plenty of opportunities: we can invest massively in the health care workers' outreach work, in the health care workers' efforts at home with the families to get the families to choose this crèche. Imagine coming as a healthcare professional with a fantastic offer to these families, where you also come and show the research that can just tell these families how good it is actually if they send their children into a crèche. It must be the few who, when exposed to them, how fantastic the advantages of your child going to the crèche, choose to say: No, I will not. So we can do so much in relation to the outreach work if we want to, and that is why I agree that this is a really unfortunate legislative proposal, because it will be symbolic policy more than it will be real solutions. We can also see it from the consultation answers. I think it is rare that we have seen a bill with such massive opposition in the hearings. It is rare that we have seen that a legislative proposal is still being maintained, even though so many consultation answers speak outright against it. As I also mentioned earlier in my question, there are socially vulnerable children outside the socially vulnerable residential areas, and what about them? Why are we making a bill aimed at registering people's addresses and not at real professional educational needs? It would be best for the children to take it into account. And yes, thank you to an offer, we say by the alternative, but one last small remark from this, which I thought about when I read through the bill, is that this is a mandatory learning offer, it is a mandatory learning offer How can the two things fit together? I just don't understand. How, in the same sentence, can you have something that is mandatory and then something that is an offer? That doesn't make any sense, because it's two opposites. Somewhere in this process somebody hasn't thought that you can't do anything mandatory while calling it an offer. So you should call it compulsory learning coercion, for example, or what do I know the government has to do about it. But it is clear that we do not support this bill, because we think it is a really bad bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153724	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153728	Thank you. I should like first of all to thank the rapporteur for his speech. But I would also like to ask a few questions about what the rapporteur says, namely that the alternative can never be used for coercion or that coercion is not the solution, I think it was said: does it apply in every context?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153753	It's hard to answer, isn't it? Then you say something up here on the platform, and then you get caught in two months. I believe that what lies basically in our view of freedoms and the concept of freedom is the same as I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, namely that we, as people, should be free in the society in which we live and live our lives as we will, as long as, of course, we respect the penal code, that goes without saying, as long as the freedom that we have can also be given to everyone else, so that we do not have any freedom rights that others do not have, there is an example of this bill: those who live outside the vulnerable residential areas have the freedom to choose, the others do not have that and as long as you do not harm others with the freedom and the way you live your life. So that is the basic understanding of freedom within us, and that must be the starting point for an individual assessment every time we find ourselves in a situation where we have to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153845	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153847	Yeah, as long as you don't hurt anyone else. I also love freedom as a liberal, but I actually think that if we do nothing here, then there are parents who harm their children. If these parents don't make sure the kids, among other things... also learn Danish, if they do not ensure that they too, like many other children, can get off to a good start on the day they start school, then I actually think they hurt their children. It's in those cases that I think it might be necessary to take this tool out of the toolbox. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009153929	No, I do not agree with the latter, i.e. it may be necessary to take this tool out of the toolbox, but I agree that, of course, as a society we also have an obligation to ensure, I was saying, or making sure that parents do not harm their children. It is so violent to say that their children are injured, but I understand what the rapporteur thinks. But as long as there are other tools we can use that are not tied up by force, we must do so, and that is what I was trying to say there is. We can choose to invest massively. Imagine it may be that it costs more money, who knows, but it may also be that it is a solution which does not involve coercion and which actually creates the results we want. Because there are a lot of other elements in this. How are these families going to meet the system when they're faced with the mistrust that's in this bill? So, yes, I agree that we should look after our children, but we should not force our citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154017	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we believe that all children should have the chance to choose their future, regardless of who their mother and father are. There's just a big difference between what kind of parents you've got, how much they look you in the eye, how much they smile at you, how excited they get when you point to something, how curious questions they ask, or how much they scold you. That is why I also believe that day-to-day offers can make a huge difference when it comes to giving every child a chance. That is why I think the government here is right about something. But when it comes to the specific legislative proposal, I think that the government is going all wrong in the city, because it is kind of tied up that depending on where you live, there is either no help or coercion. Why? I felt that I was very, very happy to be visited by my healthcare professional, Eva. In the same way that a healthcare professional simply grabs the child and makes sure that you are breast-feeding quite correctly, a skilled educator can immediately help parents, for example. to ask more curious questions instead of scolding. Therefore, I also very much believe in the use of home teachers who can come home in the family and be there right away. The government has now realized that, and I think that is very good. That is why I also regret the fact that we do not have the courage to believe in what we are setting ourselves in motion and to give these home teachers a chance, but instead to introduce coercion. What is it the government imagines? What does the government think it will do about the cooperation between the educators and the parents that it is all based on the fact that it is the day offer that has to check and keep track of whether the children are there in the hours they are supposed to be there? In other words, if we actually succeed in ensuring that home teachers build confidence, we shall immediately break that trust in the institution. I think there's something in it for the kids too. This model, which is a little square with the fact that they have to be there 25 hours, does something about the children's opportunity to join the children's communities and the ordinary day, because if the institution is going on a trip and going on a little longer, you may not be able to come along because you have to be home at a certain time, otherwise the time has passed. I also think that, in their hearing answer, the educators point out something very important when they write, and I quote: "It would be highly inappropriate if the everyday life of these children were to be marked by special concepts, activities and programmes that remove them from the rest of the children's group. ▪ So, if you use this to make special efforts to ensure that the children are not part of the other children's game, but are taken out to do something special, we are really taking a step in the wrong direction in relation to what we have just agreed on in connection with the new day-off law and the new educational curricula, which are based on children's play in communities. So, dear government, the Radical Left agrees with all the good that our day-off offer can do, but I am simply so sorry that when you actually set aside money to get educators who can come home in the family, you do not give them the chance to show that they can build bridges and create confidence and can make more parents want to send their children to day-care centres, but instead introduce coercion next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154351	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154354	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Is it not true that this is perhaps one of the things that the Radical Left rapporteur can confirm from the platform that the thing about forcing some in the day-care institution and for that matter also doing so by pulling the child-check is actually something one could do for a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154418	That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154420	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154422	Thank you. Is it not also true that when the Radical Left was part of the government, in fact under Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister, it was something that could be used, that is to say also at the time? And I just think that if you in the Radical Left are so opposed to it today, when the government is putting forward this bill, why has it not changed when you had the power of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154450	It is true that we had discussions about this at that time too, because it is precisely as the rapporteur says that it has been doing for a long time. That is also why I am now trying to see whether we can actually do nothing more with the home teachers. I have delved into it and found out that you actually have good experiences in Aarhus using home teachers such as those who can create confidence in the day institutions, because there are some parents who may think it is dangerous, unknown or uncomfortable to send their children to day care institutions. There the educators can make a difference when they come home with the family and can actually help take the children to the institution. So I think we should try that instead of now having more force.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154532	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009154539	Thank you. SF is opposed to compulsory learning for 1-year-old children. When we entered the negotiations, which were in the spring, it was on the basis of helping children from vulnerable residential areas to attend day care. Because it is good for children to be in day care where they meet good adults. Our starting point was that all children in Denmark should be written up for a crèche place, and if you don't, you should have a healthcare professional visiting the family and seeing if the family can carry out the task of ensuring that the child has a good child life. We want to strengthen language stimulation in the day institutions in the vulnerable areas, and we want to introduce social standards. We believe that good day-offer and I say day-offer can help break the negative social heritage. Therefore, it was also very disappointing to see how this bill ended and frustrating for SF to have to leave the negotiations because you ended up with the forced learning offer. The bill we are discussing today is a mess. In Denmark we have a tradition of good day offers where children must play, learn, sleep, be comforted and be, and it must equip them for the rest of their lives. It is an educational offer where they can both be allowed to cry and laugh, and where they also learn something that they can take home with them. But the proposal here has created a learning offer, and not only that: you have to force the 1-year-old children into it. In the learning offer, the manager out in the day care center has to keep an eye on whether the children are coming. If they are there less than 25 hours a week and that is exactly 25 hours, the bill says that parents must be paid. If they are there more than 25 hours a week and it is exactly 25 hours they must pay for it, even if the government's starting point was that day offers should be free. So there must be a leader with a stopwatch and keep an eye on that they are there exactly 25 hours, otherwise it will cost. It is learning time of 25 hours, and you have to pay for diapers yourself. That's how I feel: how small can it really be? In the learning offer, the children's learning readiness is supposed to be strengthened and remember again that they are 1-year-old children. It says, and I quote from the bill, that one-year-old children must be equipped for a time in school, but also for a time in the labour market. It says that children must be prepared for the labour market in the learning offer for the 1-year-old children. It does not say anything about all the parts that are normal parts of a day offer, namely that they must be equipped for life. And it is the old debate about whether you are being prepared for life or for business, which I believe is something that is involved here. Do you think that they can get into the normal day offer where they can experience that pedagogy themselves? Well, then you can see what the bill says. It is quite clear that they should not have the same strengthened educational curricula that we have just introduced for all other children. Special rules must apply to them. And their parents are not entitled to the same participation in the offer. You can sit on the board of parents, but without the right to vote. This is important, and the draft law emphasises this. And again, how small can it be? The 25 hours must then be placed in a way that makes the children get as much learning out of it as possible, even if they are 1 year old. Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, was even out to say that you're not supposed to sleep for dinner when you're in this learning offer, because it's a learning offer. Then I know that the bill says that when they are in this institution, they also meet the other children. But if you have to put these 25 hours exactly in a certain way, these kids don't get into the same rhythm as the other kids. Then the educators will always have to consider whether the children benefit from this compulsory learning offer, which was actually intended, and then they are not part of the daily rhythm that I think will be so good for these children. What I am trying to say with all these things is that I think it would have been very good to follow the intentions of what was the government's starting point, namely that children should be offered today; that the traditions of strong pedagogy that we have had had continued; that the parents had had the same influence as other parents. But then you ended up in a completely different place with this learning offer, and that's why SF isn't in it. Finally, I have to say that it is quite simply wrong when the Social Democrat rapporteur says that this is due to technicalities, that is to say, because of technicalities they ended up here. It ended here because you made a political choice. You wanted an offer that wasn't free. You didn't want to make a free day offer, and that's why you ended up with a learning offer. We tried to fight it, but it ended up with this forced learning offer, to which SF is now clearly rejecting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155044	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155047	Thank you. I have to say that the SF's rapporteur is very good at painting this as, well, now I use the expression that I really do not like: a kind of scare-mongering. I don't think it's fair to call this a disappointment and a mess. On the other hand, I sometimes hear the SF's rapporteur say that he really would like this to be extended to the whole country. I think there's a contradiction in standing on the platform here today and actually crashing this bill and then maybe the next day is talking about if it had been for everyone, it would have been okay. Let's go. Now we are helping these children, who may otherwise risk, as the rapporteur said a little bit, to start school and could not Danish and yes, perhaps therefore the whole school was lagging behind and, for that matter, have more difficulty in finding jobs in the labour market. That is why I am now disappointed that the SF rapporteur does not remember that among other things. The thing about forcing something through was something that the SF was also involved in. Well, the coercion was actually also something you could when SF was in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155158	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155200	I have never said that I would like to see the compulsory learning offer spread throughout the country. What I have said, and what the SF says, is that we want all children to be written up for a day offer... a good day offer with educated adults who prepare the child for life, not just working life; where parents have participation; where as a child you have the right to be subject to the strengthened educational curricula that we have just decided in cooperation in the Folketing. This offer, which the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party will adopt, is the opposite: less parental influence, bureaucracy and punishment if you come too much or come too little, and no demand for strengthened educational curricula. All we have to do is roll it back, not roll it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155247	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155249	I can hear that the SF rapporteur does not have so much confidence that the many good and talented educators who actually exist out there can handle this in a good and proper way. I trust that. I believe that this can actually succeed in a good way. And then I actually believe that once parents come within the day institutions, yes, there will be many of them here, who may even report the children in full time and get financial free places and perhaps not even have to pay for themselves. That's my hope. I do not know whether the rapporteur can see that this could actually be an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155327	I am sure that the educators will do all they can to give the children a good day in the day-care institution, but with the bill that is here, the good day will be despite the law and not because of the law. It's gonna be that way, precisely because there are good adults who know that this bill is a mess. Of course, they must also have the same good educational offer as everyone else. I hope there is room for that, but it is not because they have a lot of time out there in advance. So when you send out this mess legislation about a new compulsory learning offer, you don't make everyday life easier for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155359	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155405	Thank you very much for a very committed debate and also thank you for receiving the bill and for the constructive debate that has taken place. This is one of the legislative proposals for which I may feel the most strongly and for which I am absolutely sure that this is the right thing to do. It has been mentioned in several rounds, among others. of the Left Anni Matthiesen, that it is not really new to be able to impose on parents to register their children in a day offer. This has been possible for many years with the three-year-olds. There is just the challenge that when you enroll children at the age of three, it may be too late for some children. We simply need to get hold of them earlier in order to strengthen their development. We can see that in the vulnerable residential areas there are children who go to school who are doing worse in Danish and mathematics, doing worse in relation to receiving youth education, and this means that they are basically holding some less cards than a number of children who live outside the vulnerable residential areas. In fact, I recognise that a great many municipalities are doing a great deal of work in getting children from vulnerable residential areas in day-to-day provision. However, there are also parents who cannot necessarily be reached through dialogue, and we can see that in vulnerable residential areas there is a higher proportion of children who do not go to day care than when we compare with areas outside. That is why I think it is crucial for the children's sake that we make a very determined commitment to those parents to send their children in a compulsory learning offer or in a day-to-day offer. It will raise children now and here, and it will dress them better for life at school, in the education system and, as such, also for the later entry into the labour market. I think it is important that we do not just stand by and that we do not just look at the fact that there are children who are not getting a sufficiently good start. And, of course, I am available to answer questions during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155616	There's only a few here. First, it's sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155620	Thank you. I have told you that I think the government's proposal was better because it was a day offer for vulnerable children, and I am really sorry that the government and the minister did not stick to it. Having said that, there are also some things in the draft law that I did not know when the agreement was concluded. For example: I was quite surprised at the fact that you don't have to use the enhanced learning plans, that is, the new teaching plans in this new learning offer that the government is going to make. I feel that we would like the vulnerable children to enter the institutions so that they can have the pedagogy that the other children have, because it must break the negative social heritage so far, so well. But they should not then have the same educational offer as the other children who are already there. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155712	But you always get such a bit of joy when it is that as a government you get a very great deal of praise like the one that has been in the course of the whole debate. But it is also true that this ended up looking in a different way to what the government proposed, and that is because there was a perception in the negotiating circle that it is not the same as a regular day offer. This is different, and it's kind of special. The special thing that it is, which has not been given a lot of words on the road, but which I think is really important and which is linked to the question, is precisely that there is a boost programme for the children who get this learning offer. The teaching curriculum must be used by the heart, but it is of course a very special boost to ensure a better language and development, so that those children, when they reach school age, are not lagging behind, as we see today, where we can see that they are more behind than their peers, who are outside the vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155812	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155814	The Minister now said that the teaching curriculum should be used in the heart of the matter. So the day institutions can still choose to say that the educational work they are doing with the educational curricula must also include children in the compulsory learning offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155831	As I hear it, there is no contradiction in what Mr. Jacob Mark's side. It is important to say that there is, of course, a special course that is linked to the learning offer, and I see this actually, to a large extent, going hand in hand with the teaching curriculum.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155850	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155853	I believe that there is a great deal of confidence among many young children that if your child needs support and help, there are skilled professional employees available in the municipalities. Is the Minister not concerned that there is a risk of undermining the trust that exists, at least among a very large number of parents, when you make legislation, when you suddenly change the criteria for how to assess whether a child needs support or a learning offer, and when you suddenly find that the assessment of it no longer depends on a professional assessment of the individual child, but only depends on the place of residence of the child? Is it not detrimental to trust in our public authorities in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009155953	No, there is no indication of that at all. I mean, I've been visiting two day institutions in Vollsmose at two different times, and when I've asked them if there's a resistance today among parents of three-year-olds who are required to attend day care, the answer is no. It was the experience in the two day institutions that if you first had your child in a day care institution, you went wholeheartedly into cooperation. And we can actually also see from studies that just exactly bilingual and exposed are some of those who demand sparring allerrallermost. So, no, I don't really have that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160030	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160033	Before I went on maternity leave, we had a similar debate, namely when the government wanted to make earlier language assessments, and then the Radical Left said that we would think it would be better if we were to focus instead on home teachers. Now the government also thinks that it would be good for home teachers, and that makes me really happy, but then I just wonder why you're still holding onto this with compulsion. Why will the government not give hometeachers a chance to see if they can build trust and get parents to send their children to day care by volunteering?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160106	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160115	Well, to be honest, it doesn't solve the problems. After all, a very large number of municipalities, at least in the City of Copenhagen, have used a model where you have had teachers on home visits. And you can easily start with that, but it is also important to say that if you have parents who do not want their children to be registered and where it would be best for the children to be enrolled, you can now bring in enough home teachers, but that does not fundamentally change the fact that you do not just have broken down parallel societies, and that is what we will do. And we know that day institutions can play a real, really active role in breaking down parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160153	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160156	If you really were looking for home teachers, to whom the government would actually like to be involved, and if you really made sure that there was time for you to come home in the family, that you could help the parents immediately, and that you could take the parents to visit the day care institution, so that you built up confidence, where does the minister know that it does not work, so you have to use coercion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160221	Well, I'm not saying it doesn't work. And I'm very excited by all the praise that comes fluent up to the government. That's great. But I'm not saying it doesn't work. I'm just saying it's not enough. It will not be enough because there will be some parents who will say: you can bring all the home teachers you want, but we do not want to have our child enrolled in a day care institution. No, it may be that you do not want to, but therefore it may still be very good and important for the child to be enrolled to ensure that the child eventually gets better cards on the hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160253	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160307	We are opening the series of rapporteurs with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160329	Thank you. A quarter of the children placed in Denmark are trying to commit suicide, and about half of them get a 9th-class exam the rest doesn't. So when we talk about the location area, I think that these figures speak for themselves in relation to the extent to which changes are needed, but I also think that perhaps the most responsible figures are found in Danish politics at all. Because when you go in and place a child, the state does the most extensive thing you can do in relation to people and families, namely to go in and take responsibility for some children, because parents cannot stand the distance. So when you take on responsibility for some children, you have to make sure that those children have a safe upbringing, and we are miserable at that in Denmark, to put it bluntly. What goes wrong if you go in and look behind the numbers is very much the breakdown of placements. It's also a mismatch, which is one of the things that gets talked about a lot when you're around talking to foster families, i.e. that you haven't properly described the child, compared to what it is to a family that that child enters. But the breakdown in placements is really, really serious, and then there's another part that's not even included in this bill, and that's what it's like for the children placed in institutions. Most of the children placed in foster care are now in foster care, and entering a foster home is very good. In fact, if we put the child in place early enough, we will not be able to distinguish between children who grew up with their biological parents and children who grew up in foster families in the case of children who are stable in a foster family for the rest of their childhood. But that is where there are many collapses or where the children have grown up in different institutions, we have the problems, and I think we are very far from leaning on the table enough in relation to the institutions of our society, and I would like to say incredibly loudly that I do not think that the government is delivering a hustle and so something I must not say from this platform in this area, and that is despite the fact that, in connection with last year's investment pool, we got into the agreement that we should have a discussion of the placement area. The government has chosen to take this so literally that we have indeed had a discussion, but what comes out of it is crumbs where we believe that what needs to be done here is that a very large piece of bread should be thrown up. So, from the point of view of social democracy, there must also be extremely major structural changes in this area, and we believe that every politician, especially those concerned with social policy, should wake up every morning with one of the faces of the children placed on the retina and the same when they go to sleep at night. This is our responsibility! So when we take that responsibility to the children, we also have to deliver the biggest guns the state can take off the shelves in terms of creating as secure conditions as possible, and there is a long way to go again. We are currently negotiating reform of the Social Protection Agency and we are actually going to discuss it on the other side of what we are doing in the Chamber now. I think this is an example of not being ambitious enough at all, and I think the same thing with regard to foster families, and I think it is so much in terms of the institutions. Just so everyone has heard that discontent and maybe also prepares for that it might look different if you had another government. As far as this bill is concerned, it is an indication that we are taking a step in the right direction. I think 100 steps should be taken, but here we take 1. It is better than nothing, and that is why, of course, we are very happy with it. I would also like to say from the SF that the SF also supports this bill. Both the SF and the Social Democratic Party have been very concerned about these improvements, and we are, by their very nature, very happy about that. What we are doing here is introducing concrete new types of foster care, because the movement that has been over the last few decades is, after all, that more and more children are being placed in foster care families, and therefore there is also a need for us to have a group of heavily specialised care families, and then we will have a more general type of foster care as we know it from the old days. That's what this bill takes into account. Then we will also abolish the actual approval of foster families in the municipalities, so we will have a uniformity in the way in which foster families are approved. We are given much better support at the beginning of a care facility, because it is often where things break down, that is, during the very vulnerable period when children and foster parents have to get to know each other, and where we need to move much closer to the family as a system to help it get things running on track so that we do not have this fatal breakdown in the placements. The level of education has also been upgraded; we do not think it has gone far enough. But again, it is a step in the right direction, and it is also a good one. Last but not least, we are given proper terms to the network care family. It is where you are placed with a sister, or it may be with a friend of the family who can no longer have her child at home. There we think it has been completely crazy that you have had to spend a lot of time on all sorts of bureaucracy, instead of assessing what you need when you have an extra child in your family, and then making sure that that money is there so that you do not have to sit and spend all your strength on annexes instead of spending time hugging the child you have got in your care. So all in all, it's a step in the right direction out of the 100 that have to be taken before we can face ourselves in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160857	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur talks a lot about 24-hour institutions, foster care and network care families, but something I think the rapporteur forgets about prevention is the family. This applies to prevention at home, prevention at family centres or elsewhere where you help the family as a unit. That is why I am rather concerned that the rapporteur has not mentioned it at all, also in view of the fact that the Social Democrats have made an effort in this area to increase the use of forced abortions and to increase the use of coercive measures more quickly. Then the rapporteur could not tell us a little about what the attitude of the Social Democrats is to look at the family and family centres and really invest in families before resorting to such far-reaching intervention as it is now to force a child to be forced to adopt a child.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009160959	With the greatest pleasure, I would like to spend some more time talking about our social initiative. As the first element, we are proposing that there should be family houses, which means that we are bringing together the whole of the early effort in a unit. This means that everything in the child's life from conception to school age is gathered in one place. They are midwives, healthcare professionals, family teachers, home teachers, etc. etc. We should be able to seize the family there, so you never get to a placement. It's like the one element. You could spend half an hour talking about that, I won't. But I think that is very important in terms of prevention. The second element is something in which I really have the impression that the Danish People's Party and we are very much in agreement, namely family housing. There are a lot of people who would benefit from it, i.e. those who are in a grey area. It is not necessarily the case that the child is best placed with some others, but it may be that the parents find it very difficult to make things hang around the child organisationally, but have plenty of heart space to have a child. There's gonna be a whole family setup much better. There I and the Social Democrats believe that we should have a separate paragraph for family housing. So when I didn't pick it up here, it was because I hit the limit of five minutes' speaking time. So thank you for the opportunity to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161105	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161107	Well, I'm so kind in this area, because prevention is important. Therefore, I would also like to know whether the Social Democratic Party believes that before resorting to compulsory detention, the municipalities must document what measures have been taken to help the family as a whole, because we know that this area is full of errors and shortcomings. And my concern is that there should be forced detention which should not have happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161149	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161150	In fact, I am quite convinced that far too few placements are taking place. So I agree with the questioner that some mistakes are being made and when mistakes are being made in this area, it is so disastrous that you can hardly stand it. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we need to be much better there than we are today. But the general picture is that one in three children who have grown up in drinking parents themselves say, when they have grown up, that they would have liked to have been placed outside the home as a child. It is one in three children among them who have grown up with a full parent and one in ten children in Denmark has grown up with a full parent. Then we translate those numbers, we should have placed four times as many children as we do today, so if you ask people what they think would have been best for them. So I agree with the rapporteur that we need a much more fine-meshed system, which means that no mistakes are made. Well, we can imagine how we would react ourselves if our child were removed on the basis of a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161243	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then you switch places, because now it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, who is going up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161302	Thank you. Many children, for one reason or another, are placed outside the home and grow up in a foster family. It would be desirable for us, as a society, to give priority to helping vulnerable families, for example. make more use of family centres and preventive measures, thus preventing more placements of children and young people. When a child or a young person is placed outside the home, we have a responsibility to ensure the quality of care provision and to support the efforts of the foster family. Efforts must be targeted at the needs of each child and we must ensure that children placed outside the home are placed in the foster family that best suits their needs and challenges. In the Danish People's Party, we also believe that when children are to be placed, this must be done on a fully documented basis, and we can unfortunately note here that there are a number of flaws and shortcomings. We also want the municipalities to document what efforts they have made before placing a child, and here we are thinking in particular of the prevention clause in the Service Act, as well as the upgrading of the effort for the child and the family after placement. It must ensure that the family is taken care of afterwards and that they are not left on the platform. The Danish People's Party also wants to discuss the remuneration of foster families, of course in respect of the social partners. Of course, we also want a discussion of network care families. This is something we value very much in the Danish People's Party, that is, that a child can stay close to his network, including, as the former rapporteur said, ensuring the right match compared to where a child should be placed. Then we must ensure that there is stability and continuity in the placement, and look at the importance of the placement situation for the child's biological parents, family and other networks and foster families. It could also be considered whether it should be required that a parental competence study be carried out each time. That and many other things we want to discuss in the forthcoming pool of rates negotiations. In 2017, we were sitting around the table in the Ministry, and here we made a deal. It consisted of more quality in foster families and a better upbringing for the housed child. And here we agreed in the pool that there was a need for a boost to the care area to ensure more quality in care provision, so that children get the effort they need. That is why we agreed that new types of foster care should be introduced and that a concept should be developed in the approval of foster families, which should ensure a more uniform authorisation across the five social services, together with a new national knowledge-based basic course for foster families. In order to equip foster families for the difficult start-up and minimise the risk of breakdown, support for foster families is intensified at the beginning of a placement and a close start-up course for foster families needs to be developed. And here I would just like to say that it may be equally important to give the effort that is needed on an ongoing basis in relation to when a child enters his teens. There may also be a need for extra effort. Municipalities must be obliged to offer a foster family an intensive start-up programme when a child is in care. And then a demand is also made for municipalities to have a special function, where typically a family care consultant must stand in order to provide the foster families with continuous supervision, advice and guidance. At the same time, we set aside funds for a pool to promote cooperation between 24-hour institutions and foster families. This is then the part of the agreement that lies in the proposal we are considering today and, as the draft law shows, it is proposed that the Social Protection Agency approve all new foster families based on the new typology and continuously places existing foster families in the new categories in the context of operational supervision. And it must take place at least once a year. The possibility for municipalities to approve a foster family is removed. However, the municipalities can still approve the network care families. The main elements of the bill are the introduction of new types of foster families which, in addition to network families, become general foster families, enhanced foster families and specialised foster families. Then there is the abolition of specifically approved foster families, the organisation of support for foster families and a more uniform approval and a new knowledge-based basic course. And then it happens that we also introduce tax-free coverage of the other costs of network care families without showing evidence. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good thing, and it is also a step along the way, but it is no secret that the Danish People's Party wants more in this area, which we also agreed in the movement pool, and therefore we look forward to negotiating it in the forthcoming negotiations. But then there are two things in relation to that bill. One is that we want an audit clause, I could not just see if there is it in the bill, but the minister can answer that when the minister comes to the floor ^ in relation to us following whether it is also implemented in practice and works according to our intentions. The second point is that I would like to see more detail in relation to the authority we give to the Minister, because in the Danish People's Party we are always sceptical about giving ministers powers. So it will also be something we ask questions about in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161827	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, who is Mr. Carl Holst, coming up on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009161834	Thank you for that, President. The Left supports the proposal. I welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal. We are doing this from the same point of view as the two previous rapporteurs. I think that one of the most important things is that we try to look at what offers are being made to the growing number of young citizens who are going to be in foster care and try to recognise that it is not a group that is uniform. Well, in Greek mythology, you have the procrust essence of that bed where you cut the legs of people who are too long and make those who are too short, too long, because everyone has to fit in the same box. But we must not talk to young people who are socially vulnerable as if they have one challenge and there is therefore one solution, because it is more complex. And that's where we'll be hoping that with the number of more types of care better individually could hit what's the need of the individual. Now I'm not gonna throw myself into this professional-level fight. There are some of these young people who so much need a high, high, highly specialized offer, but then there are also some of those who need security and presence. After all, the way forward is that in public welfare Denmark we take individual consideration and do not put people in boxes or in prokrustessenge. And why do I say that? I do so because the figures mentioned by Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil are quite right, given that we have a backlog which makes social mobility disappear, even negative. Well, you grow up with parents who are alcoholics, you become a drug addict. Now I am marking it a little, but it is, after all, a picture that I have carved from some of the interpretations of the social policy statements of recent years which show that, as we have given more and more money, we have received a social mobility that has become negative. I just didn't think that was the purpose of the welfare state. Where things go wrong is in relation to the group of citizens we are talking about here, and I am absolutely convinced that what we are now doing in broad political agreement is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162144	There is a question from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162148	Well, here we go. Carl Holst get rid of saying it's a step in the right direction. I cannot help asking: if we now disregard the proposals on the Social Protection Agency that the government has made and on which we shall have a discussion when we are done here, Mr President, we shall have a debate. Carl Holst saw that the legislation is not, therefore, the law as far as social security supervision is concerned, but the law which the Social Inspectorate must ensure is complied with is sound as it is today? Or, for example, we need an education requirement, so that when you have a child on a 24-hour offer in Denmark, you know that there is no such thing. Does an Italian exchange student, who does not understand Danish, sit as a night watchman? Or does Mr. Carl Holst, that it is quite okay that there are no training requirements in our legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162235	I may not have said it clearly enough, but I actually tried to say it: there are some of these fellow citizens who so much need and demand a high level of education in the meeting with the public sector, and then there are some who need stability and quiet, and what do I know? My point is that we cannot say that it is either or. But yes, we must say to the institutions that they have obligations to provide a necessary high level of education for some of these young people. I just don't think a rigid education focus alone is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162323	Then there's another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162324	I do not think so. I believe that this is one of the 100 measures we need to take. But what is my specific question is, after all, about training requirements. You can screw that up any way you want. It could be half the people who have to have it. You can do it in any way you can. What is, after all, the big question is whether the government is going to come up with any initiatives at all in this area, or whether the government is not going to do so. Because the rest of us have been waiting since last autumn, when we last negotiated this, and the only thing that has come is a few little bites on one and a few bites on the other. However, it does not seem that the government is planning to propose major structural changes, i.e. to make a definite reform of the area, which I think is completely hopeless to put it bluntly. So I'm very interested to know if something's actually coming or if nothing's coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162411	What we're celebrating today is that we're going the right way with this bill. We do not believe that we should transfer it to people with a certain level of education that can be used. We don't want to go after what you have in educational terms... we want to go after what they do for good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162437	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten and Mrs Stine Brix. The rapporteur is on the right track. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162451	From Enhedslisten's side, we share the intention behind the bill that foster families should be strengthened to ensure that vulnerable children and young people who cannot live with their biological parents have better opportunities for a safe and good upbringing with close and stable relationships with adults. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today, when the risk of conflict and breakdown in care provision is high. And today more and more children are being placed in family care, which also means that foster families must be equipped to care for children with increasingly varied and complex needs. Of course, it also makes greater demands on the support and training provided by the public authorities to foster families. We are therefore in favour of the proposal to increase the intensity of the support and training programme that foster families receive at the beginning of a placement, and we are pleased that the quality of the basic course which is mandatory for foster families to complete is increased. So, although there are certainly good tactics in the proposal, we also believe that more could be done to increase the quality of the placements. Most noteworthy is the fact that matters relating to the remuneration of foster families are not addressed in the proposal, although it is generally known that wage disputes often create major problems in the area of housing. Uncertainty about pay and conditions for foster families increases the risk of conflict and breakdown with potentially major consequences for a exposed child or young person. We would like the foster families to be employed on contractual terms which ensure a fair wage, the right to a pension, a period of resignation, the development of competence, education and training, far more than is the case today, as well as protection against sudden changes in the working conditions of the foster families. This would help to create peace of mind for the good of the child, the family, and the authorities. In addition, Enhedslisten believes that we should look at whether a ceiling should be imposed on how many children a family must have in care at a time, so that we ensure that there is the necessary time and the necessary surplus for the children who are placed. So, overall, we support the bill, but we lack more initiatives to ensure the necessary quality in foster families. Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162725	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. The next is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162732	Thank you. It is not often that happens, but it happens today that I can say that I largely agree with everything that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, said when she stood on the platform a moment ago. In the Liberal Alliance, we also find it grotesque that we are not doing better in this area. We think that the figures for children placed in care are not good enough for other children. So this is, just as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil said, a step in the right direction and, of course, we support the bill. But we also think that this is an area we need to look at a lot more. We need to look much more at how we can lift children placed in care, put children better through the education system, give them better opportunities for a freer life. So we support this bill because it is a step in the right direction, but we also want to look more at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162839	There is one question from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162842	It is quite true that it is not often that we agree. On the other hand, one can only make it clear that if the Liberal Alliance agrees with what I said, then we have a majority in favour of making some changes. It's that easy. That is why I am incredibly interested to hear whether it is just something the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is saying from the platform, or whether it is actually something where the Liberal Alliance is willing to put its hands on the hot plate, that is to say that it may well be that there is intergovernmental cooperation, but on the issue of children placed in it they think it is so serious and that some improvements need to be made so that they, on the part of the Liberal Alliance, intend to add votes if the Social Democrats bring forward a proposal in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162919	I do not think that is how I can stand here and say on behalf of the Liberal Alliance that one is willing to vote against the government. I don't think we are. But I am willing to fight to get some things into the government and pull the government in the direction that I am quite sure both the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democrats think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162941	I think it's worth it, and I hope you'll be better off with it than with the top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162950	Yeah, I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009162957	With that we thank Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009163004	Thank you. I will conclude by saying that in the alternative, we are pleased that both the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democratic Party and the Alternative agree completely on what is being said from the platform. That is a fine ring, and I would like to put my hands on the hot plate, although this is not my rapporteur's, and say that I think we are actually quite ready to enter into negotiations. It can't overthrow a government, but everything else is just a start. I have been told that there was in fact a very good cooperation between SF's Mrs Trine Torp and our own Mr. Torsten Gejl of the Alternative, who helped push for these things. Now I was not myself in the negotiating room, so it may be that there were many others who pressed too. At least we are now where everyone is in complete agreement. However, I would like to thank the SF for the good cooperation at that time and to the other parties, and thank you for now strengthening the situation for the children placed, and not least the families. We have an obs-point which I think has also been discussed in the negotiations, namely that we must ensure that the process does not become more lengthy than necessary when some decisions are centralised, and the urgent needs that may be here, we must not delay, although we have now made this new agreement, where perhaps there may be some bureaucratic things that could be barriers, as I understand it. However, this is an obs point that several people have mentioned in the negotiations, and we also agree with that. All in all, however, we are very, very satisfied with the agreement and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009163126	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009163135	Thank you. The Radical Left supports the draft law as it has been put forward and recognises that there are efforts to do things better, to use the experience we have at the present time and to improve some conditions. I believe that differentiation of foster families can be a grip which can be the right way to go. That is why we want to support it very warmly, and we want to contribute to a creative follow-up. I would urge the Minister to follow up in some way and see what happens. Can we get some situation reports once a year, or can we have some conversations with the Social Protection Agency, which, after all, comes close to the differentiation of the foster families that is the subject of the bill? It's just that we can keep up with the experience that's being done around here. But we can come back to that. That does not have to happen here in Parliament at first reading. Many of us have been involved for many years about these issues that we are dealing with when we talk about children placed in care, and that may be surprising, I think, including myself, that it is so difficult to make use of the common knowledge we have and get the children's needs put at the centre and do something that makes the children actually have a childhood that is good enough for them and that can make them have an adult life that is fine. I have come to the personal recognition that we may need to improve on the past obsession with children, because it is the child who is suffering, it is the child who will pay the price that will have to be paid if we wait too long in the systems. We look at the time a little longer or try something new, a new educator in the children's institution, or whatever it may be. I have also become more open to forced adoptions than I have been before, and that is because I am beginning to look for the grip that actually enables some children to develop better in childhood and better childhood experiences by intervening in the past, also with more harsh things. Thus, previous placements are better than waiting and looking at the time. We all know that children are affected from the beginning of pregnancy, and families are different. But to achieve that a child may have been subjected to massive neglect of care and now I quote from a passage in the consultation note and need urgent placement, yes, so much has already happened which should not have happened and which must, of course, give both municipalities and everyone else who has had to do with those children and that family to do, really, really black and bad conscience. And we're not getting anywhere with that. That is why we must in some way make a call, which means that we are telling the citizens around us that we need help. What we are talking about here are authority tasks, where it is both employees of the municipality and of the institutions, who are representatives of the public authorities, and so they also have a responsibility to shout at gunpoint. Children in custody often have weaker schooling and more neglect than other children have and are doing worse for the rest of their lives. And schools must also recognise the responsibility they have, and I have noticed that there are some municipalities that are now beginning to talk about the fact that schools have now also had a policy of neglect, that is to say, keeping an eye on who is neglecting school, and they are doing something about it. In fact, I have experienced children who have been neglecting school for six months without anything happening and without an adult who has taken care of it. A few years ago I did a committee work in the municipality of Frederikshavn and in the municipality of Hjørring together with people who have worked in this area, and we came to the conclusion that what goes wrong is, if there is not always an adult who takes the child into one hand and only lets go when there is a responsible adult who has taken the other hand, i.e. like in the relay race. The child is the baton, and the one who lets go of the baton has lost, and the child is the one who loses the most. After all, we need to use some pictures to understand that we all have a responsibility for the children we are talking about here and therefore also have to try to find the solutions that are the best solutions we can find. Perhaps we should also look at the remuneration of the people who work with those children, that is, the foster families. We also need to look at the interaction between the municipality and the foster family, and unfortunately what happens is not always satisfactory. Sometimes the foster family experiences it as if they are being punished in some sense if they make demands because the child's best interests are not being taken care of well enough. There I have been wondering whether you should arrange with a moderator who could well be someone who left the social services department.I shouldn't be smart about that right now, but I am thinking of the function; a moderator with insight into the problems that arise in the foster families and in the development of children and in the conditions of the municipalities, and who may in some way be the one that allows there to be a better conversation between the municipality and the foster family than we sometimes hear about. It is all for the sake of the children we are talking about here, who are getting a good law now, but which we have not finished working with in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009163646	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then we have reached the point where the Minister comes to the floor. Minister for Children and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009163658	Thank you, and thank all the rapporteurs for some very inspiring speeches each. After all, the proposed changes, which we have arrived at in the pool of rates, must ensure a boost to the foster family area, so that children placed in foster families get the effort they need. Sir. René Gade mentioned Mrs Trine Torp as just one spearhead along with Mr. Torsten Gejl, who had made a real, very big difference in that room of negotiation, but in fact all the rapporteurs in space could be mentioned. I hope that the rapporteur will forgive me if I say that this was something which was very, very important for all the rapporteurs sitting around that table. With the bill, we will therefore introduce new types of foster families that better reflect the breadth of the needs of children placed in care, precisely in recognition that children who are placed are very, very different, and because it is important to ensure the right match from the outset. We will also ensure a uniform approval of foster families across the country, and at the same time we will ensure a new knowledge-based basic course and intensive support at the beginning of the placement to minimise precisely this risk of breakdown in placement. These are important relationships with a great importance for the children that we, as a society, choose to place with foster families, and that is why I am also pleased with the good discussions we have had today. Then there were a number of questions and comments that I would really like to address. The Danish People's Party asks if there is a revision clause in the bill. There isn't. In order to answer this question about authority, I think I need to know which part is being asked. However, if possible, please ask written questions, and I will of course be happy to answer them. The unitary list and, in fact, the alternative and radicals also mention this here with the remuneration models. I think that is something that concerns us all, because we can see how devastating it is when the economy gives rise to irritations and poor cooperation between a foster family and a municipality. It should not be a secret that I would have liked to have seen you go beyond what you have done. However, I am sensitive to the fact that I think it is positive that this summer's financial agreement contains the agreement that different remuneration models should be looked at. In fact, it is all very well to have systematic work on it too, and that, on the basis of that disclosure, KL will draw up recommendations for a new remuneration model, which will therefore be recommended to the municipalities prior to the economic negotiations next year. I think that is something that we can all at least attach ourselves to. Then it happened to me that I actually had a comment written down before it fell off the platform. However, I do not always succeed, but it did in relation to Mrs Marianne Jelved of the Radicals. Because I had written Mrs. Marianne Jelved and placed children's schooling, and then I waited for the comment. And it fell rather late anyway, but it fell, and I was very pleased about that, because that is something we have been discussing on a regular basis. It is a great challenge and a real problem that so many children who are placed do so badly in school that there are so many shifts and that there are so many breaks where they do not go to school. Last year, we had the agreement that will be put into effect in the legislative proposal we have now before us, and it is quite right, as several people have said, including the Social Democratic Party, that we have had a number of discussions and also in the forthcoming wage-pool negotiations, which will therefore begin shortly, we also have the area of placement to discuss once again, including the actual schooling of children placed in care. I therefore agree with a recital which also came from the Radicals. This is the one about the possibility of going in to make more forced adoptions. I also agree that this is something that not everyone in the Folketing agrees with. But we just have to recognise that even though the law was amended last time, very, very few forced adoptions are still taking place. It is not because we have to open up to many; we still have to leave few, but we just have to make sure that it is not structural considerations that do not make compulsory adoption. I understand that a municipality which sits and looks at a process that can take up to two years before there is a definitive clarification of whether a forced adoption can take place, chooses to say that then you place the child in a foster family. Up to now, it has not been possible to place with the family who would like to adopt, and that would mean a change for the child after two years. I can understand the municipalities who think that such a shift would also be too much. So we are already getting to grips with that. We have started work to look at whether, without compromising legal certainty, we can ensure a little more forced adoptions. So I note today that the location area is something that affects all parties. This is an important area. We discussed it last year, we will also be discussing it this year, and I hope that we will be able to conclude together some very, very important agreements for the children involved. As far as this draft law is concerned, I am, of course, available to answer any committee questions that the committee may have during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164312	There are also questions. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164315	I would really be quite concerned if I were the Minister for Social Affairs, since today, in this debate, a majority has crystallized that wants something other than what the government wants. In fact, there is a majority in the Folketing who would like to see a major change in this area. These things we had done last year in connection with the rate pool settlement, and then there have been some small proposals and some proposals for minor adjustments by the government, but a majority in the Danish Parliament actually wants a major change in this area, not least because we are all aware that one in four children who have been placed is trying to commit suicide and that only about half of the children get a primary school exam. Does it not really concern the Minister that, in the area of housing as a government, there is a majority against him in the Parliamentary Chamber? And could it not encourage that, as a government, we say: okay, there is obviously a problem and something that needs to change? It is not so much in relation to one's own ability to preserve government, but one should perhaps think more of the children involved. It is actually incomprehensible to me that the government does not go a little harder, especially when there is a majority in the Folketing who says: yes, we want to be extremely keen. What is it that prevents the government from going further than what the government has proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164434	I see no contradiction in putting forward a legislative proposal such as the one we have debated today and the discussions we are discussing in connection with the rate pool agreement, which directly concerns the placement area, where, of course, every party is welcome to make proposals, and then also the discussions we have on the social inspectorate. So I would just like to say that I think we are quite, quite strong. It is many, many years ago, that we have worked as intensively with the housing area as we have done in the last few years. That is why I am also looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations. We are already well under way with the social inspectorate, and with regard to the pool agreement, I am absolutely convinced that we will find each other. On some points, I think it must be said that there may well be an ideological disagreement across the Chamber, but basically I see that there is a desire to make some changes for the benefit of the children who are at risk in that part of them is placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164538	I just don't understand why you choose to take mouse steps. That's very nice. I do not have anything against mouse steps in all kinds of areas, but when elephant steps are needed, and when a majority of the Folketing would like to do so, I do not understand why the government is not proposing reform. It sounds almost to the Minister as if it were the first time and that we have just discovered that there is a problem. It's not like that. In fact, we got written into last year's pool agreement in connection with the fact that we were doing exactly what we are discussing today that we should continue the discussions. After all, this is an opportunity that you can either take mouse steps or use to take elephant steps. There the government then chooses to take mouse steps, although a majority in the Folketing calls for a definite reform. We can, of course, take the legislation down into the Parliamentary Chamber and vote through it bypassing the government. We can do that. My experience is that, having been in here for incredibly many years, the work that you can do when you have the state apparatus in your back is the best. And I don't understand what prevents the government from making a move that allows us to do this, so it's thoroughly worked and properly for one of the most vulnerable groups in Denmark. So just again: why these mouse steps, now that we want to take some that are a little bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164648	I do not think this is a mouse step. I think it is important to say that there is quite a good need for a common approach. I actually find that there is. We have delivered what we agreed last year. We have delivered through legislative proposals and we have delivered through a series of discussions that we have had. I've been saying all along: bid in with suggestions. Well, now we're gonna have to discuss it. We have not even started because the negotiations have not started. The negotiations are about to start, and I hope that the parties will act with the wishes they consider essential. We have already heard from the Radicals and from a number of other parties. The Danish People's Party has also resigned. It's really, really good. So I'm actually just gonna say, "We're in a really, really good place." Of course, we can do better. We shall also do so, and we shall also do so together. I hope there are common ground on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164739	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164741	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's speech. I would actually like to ask what the Minister said about the fact that there is no review clause, that there is not in the legislation. I would like to ask whether we cannot have some assurance that the legislation we are making will be followed up. We have often and often seen that the legislation we make in this Parliament is not always implemented as intended in practice. So that's one thing. The second point is that I find it deeply unfortunate that no solution has yet been found, even though we have been discussing the issue of remuneration for many years now. It is only now that the government and KL have started an analysis in this area or what it is they are going to launch and I think that is quite problematic, because in the meantime there are, in fact, children who have been taken hostage in some pay negotiations where foster parents have been told that if they do not get paid, the municipality can remove their foster children. So what is the reason why the issue of remuneration has only now been placed on the agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164846	In relation to the first question, I would like to say that I am, in fact, open to that. Let us take this into account in the work of the committee, in other words how we can ensure proper follow-up. I declare myself open to that. In relation to remuneration, I would say that this is an agreement between the foster family and the municipality, and a remuneration model will not change that. What would be really good was if the KL decided to recommend a remuneration model, that is, a remuneration model, perhaps a little towards what has been seen in Aarhus, where one has the so-called average model, which I think will help to reduce conflicts more, so that one should not hear the claim that it pays to speculate on making a child worse. No one, either families, children or municipalities, can stand up to that discussion being allowed to simmer on the surface.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164945	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009164946	Thank you. After all, it is very good that education was mentioned, that is to say, that education should also be considered. But something else to think about is, of course, the time after school, and when the placement ends when the child reaches 18 years of age. Unfortunately, we also see there that many children placed in care do not move forward in relation to education. So I would like to know whether the Minister will ensure that the municipalities where there is a need also follow up with a defense to secure the money that has actually been invested in a placement. Many say, when you talk to them, that they cannot understand that you do not ensure that children and young people are protected when they need it. Because you've invested so much money in a placement, and then you let them go when they're 18 years old. So perhaps the Minister could just unveil his thoughts in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165042-2	This has nothing to do with the draft law, you might say, but I would just like to remind you that it is no more than a year and a half since we concluded the agreement on the development and investment programme, in which defense was, as it were, part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165101	But we can then thank the Minister for that. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165119	We'll open the series of speeches with sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165146	We in the Social Democratic Party are particularly pleased that proform marriages are finally becoming illegal in Denmark, as is already the case in other countries. It is excellent and it is also excellent that many foreigners want to get married in our country. It creates tourists and thus revenue for a large number of communities, and that is good. But I also think that many of us were provoked when we read a document from the National Police in April, just as we have opened our eyes when we have followed the journalistic coverage in, among others. Berlingske. Here we could read about criminal backers who, in cooperation with marriage agencies, organised marriages between men from, for example. West Africa and East European women, and in this way third-country nationals could obtain access to Europe. We could also read how Bulgarian women did not even know that they were actually registered in a marriage, and subsequently some of the women were forced into prostitution, and we must of course put an end to that. Denmark should not be an illegal back door to Europe. The bill to ban pro-form marriages and strengthen control in a state unit is an important step in this direction. Social democracy therefore backs the bill and we are pleased that we could agree on a sensible agreement. However, there is also a single addition to the legislation on marriage which we think could be sensible, and we might as well discuss that in the same rebirth. We would like to give the municipalities an opportunity to charge fees from foreign couples when they choose to marry in Denmark. We want to introduce this because we want to take account of wedding tourism. The municipalities where wedding tourism is an important source of income would like to have this opportunity to make something extra out of the ceremonies themselves, and we think they should have the opportunity to do so, just as we believe that there is some reasonableness in foreign couples who have not paid tax in Denmark paying a small fee for the ceremony, which can cover the municipality's costs. We also hope that this small proposal will be able to secure a majority in the discussions in connection with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165346	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165356	Thank you for that, President. Because of illness, I am also responsible for Pernille Bendixen's rapporteur today and have not, of course, covered all the details of the bill. But the ban on pro forma marriages is an agreement that has been made bypassing the Danish People's Party. It is clear that we in the Danish People's Party find it quite regrettable that the government has thus agreed to fight illegal immigration outside its support party, which should of course be the ones the government is first leaning on. Instead, the government chooses to rely on the Enhedslisten and the Alternative in the fight against illegal immigration. We are somewhat puzzled about that, but the agreement has been reached. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party will vote against the proposal? No, I don't think we do. After all, we agree that the problem is there and we recognise that the proposal here is a step in the right direction, and of course the Minister must be praised for doing something about it. We just do not believe that this agreement will solve the problem seriously because we do not think it is tight enough. We believe that by holding talks with a much larger proportion of the foreign couples, even more pro-form marriages could be revealed, and that is essential for the fight against illegal immigration. We will therefore be tabling an amendment calling for as many foreign couples as possible to come to a personal interview and it is not just via correspondence via e-mail where it will be easier to decide what it is about in relation to pro-form marriages. In this way, we also believe that this illegal immigration is a bigger problem than maintaining wedding tourism in the municipalities, and would therefore have liked the government to have tightened up somewhat more in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165557	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165606	Thank you, President. The Left supports the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support it. We do so on the basis of the good arguments put forward by the two previous rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165624	That did not give rise to any questions. So we say thank you, sir. Carl Holst and goes further, and it is Mrs Stine Brix who is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165634	That is correct, President, and thank you for the floor. Like almost all parties in the Folketing, the Enhedslisten is part of the agreement that was made in the spring to prevent pro forma marriages entered into in Denmark from being misused for obtaining a residence permit in another EU country. In Denmark we have some very restrictive rules on family reunification combined with the fact that it is so relatively easy and unbureaucratic to enter into a marriage in this country. It is of course no secret that we in the Enhedslisten would like to see the rules on family reunification in Denmark relaxed, but that is not what is on the agenda today. The current draft law is not at all about obtaining a residence permit in Denmark, so it is not about Danish immigration policy. The only aim of the bill is to prevent pro-form marriages entered into in Denmark from being misused to circumvent the residence rules of other EU countries. When such a bill is needed, it is due to the fact that the police have found that the rules to date are being used by organised criminals who take good care to bring EU citizens together with nationals of non-EU countries, only so that a pro-marriage concluded in Denmark can allow third-country nationals to stay in one of the other 27 EU countries. We are aware that a number of municipalities in the Region of Southern Denmark have developed significant wedding tourism over the years and that this tourism is of great importance, especially for the smallest of these municipalities, and that is why it has of course been very important for us to ensure that the legislation we are discussing here today will not put an end to wedding tourism, but only the pro forma marriages which are an abuse of the rules. After the adoption of this bill, marriage in Denmark will continue to be much easier and less bureaucratic than in other EU countries. On the other hand, the small minority of married couples who have previously used a Danish marriage to circumvent rules in other EU countries will probably be caught in the procedure set out in the bill. We have made provision for the group of parties included in the agreement to be kept informed of the development of the processing period and, in the event of a sharp fall in wedding tourism, we will also be aware of it. We expect that in the new procedure the duration of the proceedings will be short and that legitimate wedding tourism can be maintained to a much the same extent as in the past, so that this bill does not affect a number of small and medium-sized municipalities in Southern Denmark. If this proves to be the case, then it is a new situation, and then we must meet in the circle and look at the rules. But with those comments, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165915	Thank you. Then we reached Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165921	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is a very good agreement that has been reached. It is, of course, a good thing that action is being taken against pro-form marriages, which are used to enable people to have unjustified access to live in the European Union. The fact is that a model has been found, so there is still room for wedding tourism. We must, of course, constantly evaluate whether we have succeeded in closing the gap that we would like to see, without the cost of this particular wedding tourism, so we are also interested in following the area closely. But we are positive and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009165958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll give you room. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170006	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also very positive about this agreement. We have ourselves a mayor of Fanoe who was in the debate at the time, and I am thinking of the fact that the balance between brullyps tourism and pro forma marriages is as clear as it can now be. Well, there's a very big difference between those two words and what it is. We would like to have a wedding tour... that's nice... we need to pay close attention to this... and it's a balancing act that makes sense in this. As the Enhedslisten rapporteur also said just now, we would very much like to call out more vigilantly in terms of the general rules in this area in order to obtain citizenship, but this is a completely different debate, and that is why I am very much in favour today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170045	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170052	Thank you. The Radical Left also supports the bill on pro forma marriages, with which, of course, we, like everyone else, disagree very much. And I broadly agree with all the rapporteurs, so there is no reason for me to repeat the wise words they have said, I had almost said on our behalf. So thank you for the bill to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170112	Yes, the great consensus is spreading in the Chamber. Then we shall see whether Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party also participates in that circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170126	Exciting, it's so exciting. Let me just be as brief as Mrs Marianne Jelved succeeded in doing so: in the SF we also support the proposal. Of course, we think that the right to love and marriage is important, which is why it is also important that the people who get married actually intend to marry each other. We have supported the proposal, despite the fact that we would have liked the municipalities of Southern Denmark to have been allowed to deal with these matters on a case-by-case basis. We have accepted the solution that has been found with a specialised unit to take care of the task, but with the reservation that we then also follow the area closely so that we do not make it unnecessarily difficult for people who want to marry each other because they love each other, to get married. So, with these comments, we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170218	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. These have been very precise contributions from the rapporteurs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170227	Thank you, and thank you for your contributions, including the short ones of that kind. Thank you also for your contribution and also for your constructive debate. Thank you also for your broad support, and I would in fact just like to express my understanding of the position of the Danish People's Party. About the bill itself, it should be said that today there are people who enter into pro-marriage in Denmark to cheat on a stay in the EU, and that there are criminal networks that trade with people and force them to marry pro-marriage in Denmark in order also to get them into the EU. I think that everyone thinks that is awful and awful, and that is why I am very pleased that we had this broad agreement made not only to get a ban on pro-form marriages, but also to ensure, with a specialised unit, that the ban is effectively enforced and that it is also strictly enforced. The draft law puts an end to Denmark being a back door to illegal immigration into Europe, and I am extremely pleased with that. Then, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170343	Thank you. And there are no questions for the Minister right now, so it has to come later. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170400	The debate has been opened: yes, it is not quite, because the Minister for Industry is not yet present. It is true that the previous legislative proposals have gone quite quickly here, and perhaps we have not quite been able to foresee this, but do we have any reports that the Minister is on the way? I'm interrupting the meeting for a moment. We can't negotiate if the minister isn't here. Although we have a good rapporteur ready, it does not go, so we will take a little break until we know how close the minister is to being here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170506	We shall resume the sitting as the Minister is now present. I must, of course, say that it is important for ministers to ensure that they are here on time for Parliament's readings. We are dealing with a first reading of Bill No L 48, which is a draft law on electronic invoicing in public procurement by the Minister for Industry. The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170534	Thank you, President. Sometimes it can go so fast that it's not even enough to take your feet off your neck. The bill here is about electronic invoicing in public procurement. This is the implementation of an EU directive, which is also referred to as the e-invoicing directive. The draft law now requires public authorities, central purchasing bodies and other entities that can place orders to be able to receive and process electronic invoices. The Directive sets out common European standards for these invoices. The draft law does not oblige private companies to continue to apply existing standards. There is a desire for the use of electronic invoices to be increased and, above all, there is a great expectation that the legislative proposal will facilitate the work of companies operating in several EU countries and having a lot of trade across EU borders, since they will now be able to use the same e-invoicing standard throughout the EU. Social democracy can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170649	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170700	Thank you, sir. President. This bill is, of course, one put forward by the Minister for Industry, as I said. The purpose of the bill is at least according to the Minister's written submission, and it will be true that we should increase the use of electronic invoicing in the different compositions where there is a Danish company, for example, which wins an order against a state company. In other words, it must become easier to be a business and there must be less bureaucracy. It must provide a more efficient process and it must also result in lower transaction costs. These are some of the things that are being proposed. There is, as Mrs Karin Gaardsted said, an EU directive. I am not particularly fond of the European Union at all, but it is the case that when there is a directive that can be of benefit to both Danish consumers and Danish companies, we will, of course, also vote for it in the Danish People's Party, so that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170804	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170813	Thank you. Generally speaking, we are at the forefront of digitalisation in Denmark. Fortunately, in the vast majority of cases, the Danes are safe when we travel online, and we are quite confident that access to and primary communication is digital. When others see the same good benefits, you get uplifted. Without having to re-tell in detail what the real content of the directive is, I would just like to say that for many years back home we have been ensuring that invoicing for our companies to the public authorities is done electronically. We have a good Danish standard for this, and of course we stick to it, but with the bill we make sure that when Danish companies win orders abroad, it can be done on a pan-European standard. This means that Danish companies that win tenders abroad do not have to worry about different systems in each country. We also ensure, of course, that Danish authorities can deal with the new European common standard. After all, this helps to ensure better competition, and we are basically very much in favour of this: opening up the European market to electronic commerce even more and allowing business to submit standardised electronic invoices makes real sense. That is why, of course, we in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009170950	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The unitary list is not in the Chamber, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171012	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to increase the use of electronic invoicing across EU Member States. We in the Liberal Alliance welcome this proposal. It is positive that we want to standardise invoicing in the EU's internal market. This will create better competition and increased accessibility through public procurement, and will create more efficient processes and reduce transaction costs. It is always extremely positive when we, from a political point of view, can help to facilitate the work of both the private sector and the public sector. This is essentially what we are doing with this legislative proposal, which promotes and facilitates free trade in the European Union. It is precisely on a point like this that close European cooperation with some common standards makes very good sense. The scheme is voluntary for the private sector. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's just sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171122	We also support the proposal. After all, it is an implementation of several different things, a directive, and when it comes to directives at European level, it is very, very rare that we in the alternative should not back up. And we were just discussing at our group meeting here earlier today what we are actually doing if there is something that is contrary to, for example. Union law. Is it merely our standard in the Alternative that we should then say that we simply cannot say yes to that, because even if we wanted to, must we turn it around and then press for a European solution? Well, so far, I don't remember standing on the platform and having a bill that had a hand in a pan-European initiative where we didn't support it. And so do we now. It is good that we can have standardised arrangements when we act across borders. And the only thing I could wish there was something about were sustainability elements, so we also had it in the tendering phase. This is not the issue here, but the green element I will almost always try to get in, just as I would like to speak out loud about the fact that the European Union is good for us. And if there are any elements here where you could say: What about the very small businessmen, there are some of them who can't make invitations to tender when it happens in this electronic way? It may be that we must push from the public and help if we find out that there are problems there. It must, of course, be something that everyone is able to offer. But from the outset, we are clearly positive about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171240	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171246	Thank you very much. After all, this bill only obliges the public and not the companies, so it should be possible for small businesses to be able to cope with it by other means. It is simply the case that the public sector with the bill, and we think this is a good idea, makes it as easy as possible for companies to trade with the public sector, and we also think it is a good idea that purchasing centres and contracting entities should be able to receive and process electronic invoices. At the same time, it is good that it does not impose obligations on private companies, since they will continue to be able to apply the existing standards. This also makes it easier to act across borders within the European Union. After all, there are more than hundreds of thousands of Danish jobs that depend on exports to the EU. So we think it is a very good idea that the European Union has now come up with a directive that makes this trade easier for Danish companies, which, as several rapporteurs before me have mentioned, are indeed hugely electronic already. So this is something that should benefit Danish companies, not least the many who trade with our colleagues in the European Union. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171354	Thank you. There are no questions. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171408	Thank you. After all, my fellow Members have examined very carefully what the proposal is about, namely that there must now be electronic invoicing in public procurement and that we must have a common European standard. That makes a lot of sense. Therefore, there is not so much to add from up here, other than that I think that when we discuss these things, one cannot say enough that there is a mismatch between that we are the world's most digitised country and that we are in a 34th place when it comes to security in IT systems and in our digitised systems. I think we all agree that this is not satisfactory and that there are some risks involved. It is not today that we have to solve it, but I just think it is important. Now I am also looking at the Minister, and I also know that the Minister for Innovation is on the issue; that is something we all need to help each other with, because it is not fair that we digitise loosely it is very good but then cannot also promise citizens and businesses that their data is secure. SF supports, and I should welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171516	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171524	Thank you very much. The draft law, as several previous rapporteurs have said, is about making it easier for companies to act across EU countries in public procurement. Today it is the case that the countries of the European Union have developed technical solutions that do not work together immediately, and in practice it acts as a technical barrier to trade. This also makes it more difficult for companies to tender for public contracts, and it also reduces the legal certainty of companies. The bill makes it easier to use electronic invoicing across EU countries and thus makes cross-border trade easier. This means that transaction costs will be reduced, which means that the public sector will have better prices. The legislative proposal is also the implementation of an EU directive, which means that the rules will apply in all EU countries. This will also benefit Danish companies, and their transaction costs will also be reduced when they offer assignments in other EU countries. I also think it is important to emphasise that the proposal will not require companies to apply the European standard when making electronic invoicing, and thus will not impose increased costs on businesses either. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that free trade and the least possible barriers to trade, including, of course, technical ones, are an advantage for Denmark. Denmark is a small and open economy, which is why we have great benefits from trade. Trade makes both Denmark and the EU significantly richer, so we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171705	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. In fact, we have reached the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171716	Thank you for your comments. That's my maiden speech as a minister. I might have hoped for something more memorable than a bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, but nevertheless it is an excellent draft law, to which I am pleased with the support of the rapporteurs, and of course I am also pleased with the comments that have been made along the way. E-invoicing is nothing new to us in Denmark. Since 2005, we have been demanding e-invoicing when dealing with the public sector. The bill here implements the EU directive on electronic invoicing in public procurement in Danish law. The bill requires Danish public authorities, central purchasing bodies and contracting entities to receive and process electronic invoices according to the European standard. Danish public authorities have been using e-invoicing for many years, and the bill will therefore not bring about major changes for the public sector in Denmark. For companies, there is no requirement for them to apply the European standard when sending electronic invoices. They can continue to make use of the Danish invoice standard as the bill only requires public authorities. Companies will therefore not have increased costs of the legislative proposal, as they are not subject to conversion to the European standard. However, for companies trading with other European authorities, the application of the European standard would be beneficial, as it would be possible to invoice in the same way throughout the European Union. As has been the case in the public sector, business will have considerable savings to make by increasing the use of electronic invoicing. This is an important part of digitising and thus making the entire procurement and procurement process more efficient, as several stakeholders have pointed out in their consultation responses. The next natural step is to standardise electronic orders and catalogues in order to further streamline the process, which is why the government is giving priority to the development of European standards in this area. With this bill, together with other EU countries, we are taking a major step in developing a better and more technologically up-to-date way of handling e-invoicing. This is an advantage for businesses and provides better opportunities for cross-border trade. I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009171951	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no brief comments and no one else has asked for the floor at all. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172011	The debate is open. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172035	Thank you. This bill, too, is about the implementation of an EU directive. It must modernise and harmonise the trade mark systems of each Member State and the EU trade mark system. There is simplification and more laws in this area are being put together to benefit understanding and legal certainty, and this is also a relief for companies. Trade marks are used to identify the goods or services of an undertaking. And the bill also includes amendments which are not a direct consequence of the directive. The draft law will no longer require the registration of a trade mark to be reproduced graphically, but only in an appropriate manner so that the content of the trade mark right can be clearly and precisely established. And some of the consultation answers question that, because can we be sure that it can be described when we have had to show it graphically so far? Over the years, a large number of rights have come into conflict with each other. These are now being adjusted to reflect the practice of the European Court of Justice. The draft law also allows a right-holder to prevent counterfeit goods from entering the Danish customs territory for commercial purposes. And there is a simplification and harmonisation of the structure behind the application fees, so that in future an application covers, as a starting point, one class of goods or services against previous three classes. In addition to the Trademark Act, the bill also provides for an authorisation in the Gas Safety Act to lay down penalties. Finally, new provisions are introduced on the transfer of fee revenue from the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office to the House of Names in Viborg. It is a slightly mixed bouquet, you might say, but the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172302	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172309	Thank you, sir. President. Now I don't want to sound like a record, but Mrs. Karin Gaardsted has told you very well about some of the things that this bill contains. As I have said, the aim of the draft law is to modernise the regulation of trademarks and the way in which they come into being are registered and controlled and approved in Denmark and also in other countries. It is the case that before a trade mark is registered, the Board prepares a search report containing, for example, the identification of earlier registered trademarks with which the applicant may be involved and may infringe in the application for his new trade mark. For an extra fee, you will also be able to draw up a detailed search report which will particularly benefit many of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which may find it very difficult to navigate around these legislative processes, in relation to the fact that you are afraid of conflicting with other registered trademarks. As Mrs Karin Gaardsted also mentioned, it is the case that it is often a case of copy production, counterfeit goods, and some of them also often transit in several countries, and there is a good thing that with this bill and the changes that are coming, we will have the opportunity to make an effort in relation to the illegal goods that are transiting in a Danish customs territory. Finally, the proposal also states that we need to harmonise some of the application fees with the EU Trade Mark Office. So these are a number of small changes, adjustments that make the current trade mark legislation in Denmark a higher level and where we are also able to better honour the demands that we expect there to be on an international market and on an enlightened basis. And, as I said, it is also the case that SMEs in particular will be better placed to examine and clarify their possible trade mark applications at a qualified level. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172533	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then we reached Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172540	Thank you. There are, of course, some parallels to the previous draft law, but let me start by saying that we are very much in favour of European cooperation, and we are for very many reasons, and one of them is that we are promoting cross-border trade in Europe. That makes us all richer. However, when we have free trade, it also requires that the conditions and the regulation that apply should, of course, also be the same across national borders. The proposal implements the EU directive to provide both rightholders and customs authorities with better tools to intervene against counterfeit products before they are placed in trade in Denmark. As I said, when it comes to free trade and equal conditions, one must of course also have proper protection of one's trademarks, so that what one has acquired the right to, no one can cheat on, and therefore one also has the opportunity to make better efforts, for example, to be able to intervene against goods that are in transit, where the rules are being broken. There are a number of amendments to the Trademark Act and a number of other laws. We will have the regulation modernised and harmonised national trade mark systems in all EU countries, so that it will be more efficient and user-friendly to register as well, and then I think that it was Mrs Karin Gaardsted who mentioned that there is a certain amount of technological development going on, and this is taken into account in the draft law, by relaxing the requirement so far that a trade mark should be reproduced graphically. This means that you can now also get a record of, for example, a sound I know that we should be careful with English words with a jingle, such a characteristic music that various producers also use, so when you hear an advertisement, you know the company on the sound. It can, of course, be just as strong an instrument for enforcing your rights, and you already have the opportunity to do so, but it is now made clear that it is a little easier without having to submit a larger notebook. The application structure is also simplified, as others have already explained. I would just like to mention two things that I think are quite important: today it is the case that if somebody else registers a trade mark that you disagree with when it violates your own, the second trade mark must be registered first, and only then can you start a case. There will therefore now be an opportunity to object to new attempts to register trademarks in the process before registration takes place, and that provision, together with the possibility of making such a search for older and existing trademarks, should thus ensure that there are fewer who might inadvertently break existing trademarks. I think we all know many examples of how expensive such a legal fight can be, and if you do it quite unintentionally, then it is kind of nice to have a clarification that now you are moving into something that can cause problems. Then you can handle it at the forefront instead of having to start a long and difficult process. So this again helps to ensure that perhaps particularly small and medium-sized enterprises registering trademarks come through with it a little more easily. There is also a provision on amendments to the Gas Safety Act. There is no need to spend further time on that. Basically, as others have said, this is a quite sensible legislative proposal which helps to ensure that some of what is really important in relation to the proper functioning of the market is that people who develop products and build a trademark and register it must, of course, be able to protect it, and the whole regulation around it will therefore receive a much-needed update, and we of course support that from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009172954	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it became Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173002	Thank you. The proposal should bring the Danish trade mark system closer to the EU trade mark system. And it is clear that the effective and effective protection of trademarks must take place at an international level. For example, Danish designers would be incredibly ill served by the fact that one could only protect one's trademark in Denmark, or that the trade mark systems are so different that it is difficult and expensive to enforce one's rights. It can be noted that implementation is close to directive, that consultation answers are basically positive and that the Ministry has listened to requests for clarification etc. It is a very good legislative process and the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173048	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173054	Thank you. We in the alternative are also positive about the proposal. We would like to support the protection of trademarks, not least at European level. I am a little less sure of how close it is to the directive. My fellow rapporteur, who was here just now, said that it was a close directive. We are also comfortable with this so far, but there are a few things we need to examine. As always, when you are also an IT rapporteur, it is a little interesting to look at trade marks. Because when we ensure copyright and trademark protection really, really well, we can sometimes see that there is some innovation going on, because there are actually some people who do not have the opportunity to develop it in a sensible way, or we get new initiatives made, because there are some big players who are too heavy on the trademarks. But we are clearly in favour, as it stands right now, of the draft law. But I just need to figure out how the Gas Safety Act fits into the bill, so we may only be ready to say 'yes' at second reading. But we're in favour so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173200	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173207	Thank you. If someone has traveled around the world... some may have come across the very famous Dolce & Banana clothing brand or bought ice cream in the Hague Booez ice shop, or some may have bought toys such as the very famous PolyStation for their children... you can play all kinds of games on it. You could also have bought coffee from BuckStar Coffee or StarFucks Coffee or if you're into the hot stuff, you might have been inside one of these shops with the little rabbits, also known as PaperBoy's Store. All these are examples of trademarks where you can see when you're standing outside and watching that it's probably Kentucky Fried Chicken they're playing around with here. I think McDonald's probably also experienced their trademark loaned out to every type of weird food anywhere in the world. And it is clear that we can discuss trademarks from here to the other end, but it makes very good sense in the world we live in today, that we also protect trademarks and that we do so at European level, so that we are more united. For it is now stronger that the European Union is united against the larger players in this area. So even though I'm sure Dolce & Banana is doing some really nice clothes and the ice cream at The Hague Booez tastes good I'm a little more unsure if StarFucks Coffee tastes really good, so it's a good idea to look after the brands. So we can radically implement this directive and the other amendments contained in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173347	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173403	After all, the legislative proposal must implement an EU directive, but it also goes further than what is in the directive. There are some further changes to what follows, purely textual. From the SF we need a little more time to look at this proposal, so it doesn't look like it changes so much about the status quo. However, as my colleague from the Alternative said a little bit, it is a two-edged sword here, if you can put it that way, because on the one hand, of course, people must have the right to their own products, to the things they have produced that they have obtained through research and whatever it may be. On the other hand, we also see many examples of it being used by those who bring proceedings to bring small businesses into court for years in various legal fights that may be reasonable, but sometimes also unfair. So we need some more time to get a look at whether this bill is moving in one direction or another, and that is why we cannot explain our position today. We will do so at the third reading. I should also welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they feel the same way, so they will also explain their position at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173535	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173544	Thank you. The proposal aims to modernise the regulation of trade marks and harmonise national trade mark systems and the EU trade mark system, and then it implements the EU directive, as mentioned by several of the previous rapporteurs. The amendments must include, inter alia: ensure an efficient and user-friendly recording system adapted to the needs of users and technological developments. From now on, for example, there will be an increase in the number of young people in the Community. not be required to be able to reproduce the trade mark graphically in order to be registered, and rules which generally support digital commission will also be introduced. The Conservative People's Party supports the amendments to the Trade Mark Act. We believe that there is a need for the rules to be modernised and adapted to digital communication, which is at the heart of today's development. It is of no use that we in the public registration systems make some inappropriate demands on companies. The consultation answers also show that there is strong support for this much-needed modernisation of the law. Of course, we need to adapt the systems to the needs of companies, so that systems support lower costs, more efficiency and increased productivity. A streamlining of trade mark protection across EU countries will also help to increase competition and efficiency and to reduce costs and, above all, be part of the fight against cheating and counterfeit goods. Of course, we also welcome this in the Conservative People's Party. Of course, we can back up the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173720	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the trip to the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009173726	Thank you. Well, now I've got my virginity taken as a minister. Now I stand here and am more routine than I was ten minutes ago, but also with another exciting bill that deals with the trademark law. I would, of course, like to express my thanks for the speeches in the debate and for the support that has been given to the proposal so far. After all, the legislative proposal is primarily the implementation of an EU directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks. We are implementing this by means of an amendment law which is textually close to the directive, in order to reduce the risk of interpretation issues. The purpose of the Directive is to modernise the regulation of trade marks and to harmonise national trade mark systems and EU trade mark systems. The draft law, like the directive, also contains business features which are currently covered by the collective mark law. For this reason, the collective mark law is proposed to be repealed as a separate law. As I have said, most of the legislative proposal is an implementation of the directive, but some amendments have also been proposed in the light of the wishes of users of the trade mark system and legislation. The requests for the bill, which is beyond the directive, have been made at a number of user meetings held by the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office during the preparation of the bill, where representatives of professional organisations, the consultancy industry, companies and universities have participated. For example, the rules governing the creation of trade mark rights have been clarified. In addition, the scope of the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office's investigations as part of the application process has changed, and the time for submitting objections has changed before registration of the trade mark, and options are introduced in relation to the Danish Agency's search reports. An important change to the draft law is that it will no longer be a requirement for trade mark registration that the trade mark be reproduced graphically, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. The trade mark may instead be reproduced in an appropriate manner using generally available technology, such as: I'm sorry, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen said that in the future you can reproduce a sound mark via an audio file and not know that you need to write it down on music notes as you are doing today. And it certainly seems a little more modern that we can do it that way. In order to strengthen trade mark protection and combat counterfeiting more effectively, the draft law also provides that a rightholder will be able to prevent counterfeit goods from entering the Danish customs territory for commercial purposes. So if there are a lot of fake Louis Vuitton bags somewhere in Denmark, we can stop them from being in Denmark. It is also proposed that the structure of application fees be harmonised in relation to the structure of the EU trade mark office. This means that in future an application covers only one category of goods called commodity classes against the previous three. The purpose of this amendment is to prevent the filling of the trade mark register with unnecessarily extensive registrations. Before registering a trademark, the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office shall draw up a search report identifying earlier registered trademarks. The applicant may infringe those earlier registered trade marks by registering a new trade mark. The proposal here provides for the possibility of obtaining a detailed search report for a fee, so that you can get some of what you need instead of having such a general search report. In particular, this possibility will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, which wish to receive further information on the reason why the trade mark applied for is likely to infringe earlier trade mark rights. The risk of accidental and costly infringement proceedings will thus be reduced and the applicant will have a better basis for seeking assistance from professional advisers. An opportunity to opt out of the search reports will also be introduced. This can result in a faster and more efficient procedure, which has been demanded by some of the professionals who work with ip rights. A similar fixed track system already exists at the EU Trade Mark Office. In the end, there's this, which, among other things, is... Mr. René Gade mentioned the question of the Gas Safety Act, which provides for the possibility of imposing a penalty for infringement of the European Parliament and Council regulation on appliances burning gaseous fuels, as the regulation states. And no, it has little to do with trade mark law, but is there simply because we had to put it in somewhere. Then we need to put this into the law and, by the way, we consider it to be relatively uncontroversial. There is one more thing that has nothing special to do with the trade mark bill as such, and that is that we also transfer some fee revenue from the Patent and Trademarks Board to the House of Names. This is simply because the Patent Complaints Board has moved to Viborg to the House of Names, which is why we would also like the money to come with us. That was the main thrust of the bill. I look forward, of course, to further consideration and hope that there will be a good and constructive debate during the committee work, and also that SF and Enhedslisten will be able to get answers to any questions they need. Of course, we are also available in the Ministry if there is anything we can help with there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009174336	There are no brief comments. I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009174355	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009174412	Thank you. When we discuss annual reports on the Arctic cooperation in this Parliament and have done so since 2011, it is basically because climate change makes the Arctic more and more accessible. It is in the fields of shipping, fisheries, the exploitation of natural resources, tourism, etc. The ambition has been fortunately across not only the Folketing, but also across the countries that are geographically up in the Arctic area • that the Arctic should remain a low-voltage area where the conflicts that exist are resolved peacefully. In fact, the report presented describes very well the international cooperation that is taking place on the Arctic and the various areas on which cooperation is taking place. I believe that the only substantial addition that I will make today on behalf of the Social Democratic Party is that there is indeed reason to be concerned about the trend towards increasing tension in the Arctic which is growing in these years. Let me mention a few of the major players first the Chinese. In January of this year China published its first Arctic strategy, stating that, in the Chinese's view, the Arctic cannot be seen as a defined region and that it is not up to the Arctic states to lay down rules and standards for the region. China also has a role to play, they say themselves when it comes to research, sailing, extracting resources, fishing, laying cables and pipelines, etc. This is compared to how the tones have been previously brand new and much more offensive from the Chinese side. One of the other major players, the Russians, has opened in recent years or is currently planning to open, reopen or expand up to ten Arctic military bases from the time of the Cold War. Most recently on the island of Alexander in the archipelago of Franz Josef Land, where a 14,000 m2 building is built, and where a 2,500 m long asphalt runway is planned, which allows to operate the area with both combat and transport flights all year round. Finally, of course, there are the Americans where, in addition to Denmark's efforts to avoid Chinese financing of new airports in Greenland, we saw that the US Department of Defense was perhaps a bit surprising and announced that it was ready to analyse it and possibly invest in Greenland airports. I say all this because it illustrates what is happening in the Arctic region at the moment, namely that some of the major players are taking steps that risk increasing tension. Now this is a statement, and we are not going to make any texts and not vote on anything. However, I think there is reason to call on the government to have a special focus on this in the context of next year's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009174726	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Henrik Brodersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009174747	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the statement on cooperation in the Arctic. It is, of course, a recurring event, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, which we would very much like to take part in. There can be no two opinions that interest in the Arctic is growing. The world's great powers will enter the Arctic and exploit the new opportunities for making money, but not everyone has the necessary understanding of nature and the people of the Arctic. Therefore, it is very important that the Kingdom has a strong voice in Arctic cooperation and that our work to develop the Arctic is sustainable and benefits the people who live up there. The ice melts in the summer, and the ice sea is virtually without ice. It opens up new opportunities. There are opportunities for new fishing, it opens up new shipping routes and there is a growing interest in tourism in the Arctic. Fortunately, the Arctic coastal states have now agreed and signed an agreement that fishing should not be carried out in the Arctic Sea until we are sure of the level of fish stocks and before we are sure that fishing is sustainable at all. I am pleased that the Government's foreign and security policy strategy gives priority to the Arctic and that it places particular emphasis on economic development for the benefit of the people of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is the Kingdom of Denmark that is a member of the Arctic Council, and therefore it is only natural that the government should do as much as possible to safeguard the interests of the Greenlandic and Faroese peoples in the Arctic. I also welcome the fact that interest in the Arctic is great and that there is a possibility of a new development that can benefit the people of the region. That's what we need. But I am also concerned that the great opportunities in the Arctic also pose a great risk. Unfortunately, we see that many actors who want to enter the Arctic do not understand the level of risk involved. During the last debate on the statement, I mentioned that the cruise industry was dissatisfied with the requirement that cruise ships should sail two by two in the Arctic. They believe that it destroys the competition and they protest against the demands so that they can earn a few more hands on an exclusive trip to the top of the world. However, you ask Arctic Command, who is responsible for safety and must move out when the accident is out, they say that there is no possibility of saving passengers from a sinking cruise ship with up to 3,000 souls on board if there is no other and equally large ship nearby. If there is not a similar large ship nearby, we will certainly face another ship disaster of dimensions such as the Titanic and thousands of deaths. So it is not without reason that great demands must be made on all actors who want to pursue a profession in the Arctic. The cruise industry is only one of the many different industries that have big plans for the Arctic. And we must make great demands, just as we must take into account the extreme weather conditions and the vulnerable nature of the Arctic. The defence stands for the Danish part of the task solution in the Arctic. The main task is, of course, of a military nature. There must also be a defence of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But the defense also carries out much of the other tasks in the Arctic. These are rescue operations, fisheries control, environmental monitoring, and this supports police tasks, etc. In December 2016, we reached an agreement with the government to strengthen the defence's future task solution in the Arctic. The defence solution has been strengthened in many areas in recent years, but as there is increasing interest in the Arctic, we need to do even more to strengthen our efforts in this area. This also applies to the efforts to improve the relationship between land and sea mapping, where there is still a long way to go before we are in the end. With regard to the environmental and natural areas, a great deal must also be done to protect the Arctic nature. The Arctic is a vast and resourceful area. As one of the five major actors in the Arctic, the Kingdom of Denmark has a great responsibility to ensure that people and nature can go hand in hand. We must ensure that those who want the Arctic to do well and who have the opportunity to work in a region, but also have a responsibility to ensure that development benefits those who live there. We have an obligation to ensure the Kingdom's interest in the Arctic, whether it be in fisheries, the environment, raw materials or tourism, and we have an obligation to ensure order in the Arctic. We must ensure that those who want good and with the necessary respect for nature have access to the Arctic. It must be the pointers of the Danish People's Party, the Folketing and the government forward-looking. As the previous rapporteur said, there is a great deal of interest in this. When you sit and have these negotiations on the Arctic, you have observers from such exotic places as Brazil, Turkey, Singapore and India. Maybe that's not exactly what you associate with the Arctic. I certainly did not do so until I became aware of how much interest is actually in the world. With these words, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175328	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175333	The previous rapporteur made it very clear that there is a risk of tension in the Arctic region, given that there is increasing interest in the Arctic and its potential, and the rapporteur also says that there are a number of countries which are showing great interest in making money in the region in the future because of the opportunities that exist. However, in the report by the Foreign Minister himself, the Chinese are not mentioned in a single word, despite the fact that we know that in the previous debates we have had here about the Commonwealth, but also debates on the Arctic, the Chinese have filled a great deal, as we have heard from other rapporteurs. What is the rapporteur's view on this and what is the rapporteur's view of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175422	The fact that the Chinese are interested in precisely the Arctic is not a secret, and that is perfectly understandable. Every time you sell goods in China and Japan in Europe, you will be able to save 40%. of the transport by sailing north instead of south, so it clearly gives an interest in what is going on in the area. The fact that in many other ways the Chinese have started to play with their muscles and, in particular, spread their money all over the world is not a secret either, and that is possibly one of the reasons why they also now actively go in and say that they feel like a natural part of the Arctic. I do not share that view at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175509	I would like to ask a few questions about the Americans' interest in co-financing airport buildings in Greenland. Every time there have been other countries that have shown greater interest in Greenland and want to help finance major projects in Greenland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always been out to say that there is a foreign and security policy issue that plays a role here. This is also true in this context where the Americans are showing direct interest in the military field. What does the Danish People's Party see as a foreign and security policy aspect in this matter that Denmark should be aware of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175549	Greenland now lies where Greenland is located, and Greenland is close to both the United States and Canada, and because the United States is our allies, it is obvious that they are part of it. They solve many tasks for us with monitoring and other things, which is why I think that the Americans are in every possible way a perfectly natural part of it and have in every way been a shield for the Greenlandic population for many years. Then, of course, there have been plenty of examples that they have been somewhat lax with the environment and so on. But I think that the Americans must certainly be preferable to any of the others that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175630	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175634	Thank you very much for your contribution. After all, there are many of us in the Arctic who want to preserve the Arctic as a low-voltage area and have it as a peace zone, and we have succeeded in doing so so so far. At the same time, we also see that there is a build-up. Among other things: arm the British in northern Norway, and the Russians are also more and more, what to say, present in Greenland, just as Chinese state ships are. We heard that when we were in Greenland with the Parliament's Greenland Committee here a month and a half ago. I think that one aspect that we may not be talking about in the Folketing, at least not in Greenlandic or Arctic terms, is cybersecurity. One of the things we were told at Arctic Command was that with these Russian and Chinese ships there is a risk that you can short-circuit the Internet connection to Greenland because of these sea cables that we have in Greenland. Is this something that we really should pay more attention to in the Folketing in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175741	Well, I certainly think so. Well, we have to be in relation to everyone. All those who enter the territory of others and, for example, carry out such attacks, typically do so because they do not want to be well, or at least because they want to have some information that they really should not have. We can just see here in the house how many steps have been taken to protect us better and better, and that is how it is all over the world. That is why it is clear that this is also a place to focus on, and I believe that our allies and partners are fully aware of this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175820	Thank you very much. The rapporteur also mentioned that people live in the Arctic. Many times we talk about climate change and we talk about the environment and nature in the Arctic. We are talking about defence and security policy, all these other things, but it is extremely important to remember that people live there. An obvious area to focus more on is education and research. Could you imagine, for example, that we are going to be able to do something about it? Was a leader in Arctic research? Some of what is being pointed out is an arctic research hub. At any rate, I find that very interesting perhaps to discuss something more, and in the same way it can be said that we are challenged when the European Union cuts down on their contribution to Greenland's education area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175905	Everything else equal: yes. After all, research has taken place for hundreds of years at a higher or lower level and the fact that one has to research and find out what is really moving in that part of the country is quite natural. We could easily see that much more massive efforts were made to create a good framework for research in the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175934	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009175948	Thank you. As the usual rapporteur of the Left in this area has been acutely prevented, I have promised to give the speech. After all, the Arctic is a priority foreign policy area for Denmark and the Commonwealth. It is absolutely crucial that Denmark, together with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, has a clear and sharp focus on this area. For even though the Arctic is currently one of the more anonymous geopolitical scenes, no mistake should be made about possible conflicts in the area or the possibilities for it. That is why it must be stressed how important the kingdom community is in the Arctic, and our voice is much stronger when we stand together and when we cooperate. We must be wary of possible conflicts in the Arctic, in particular Russia, we must be aware of the fact that we have also heard about the Chinese. And with the increasing aggressive foreign policy of recent years, for example. Putin's side, we must look at the possible intensification of conflict levels in the Arctic with great concern. In Denmark we have experienced violations of our own airspace as well as military exercises close to our borders, and even Sweden has, for example. have been forced to increase their defence budgets and re-establish military service because of Putin's behaviour here in the Nordic countries too. That is why we must also be wary of increased Russian military activity in the Arctic region. And that may lead us to ask ourselves whether we should then increase our military presence in the Arctic, without, of course, in any way helping to escalate the militarisation of the area. We need to send out a clear signal that we are united in the Commonwealth, and we are united in the Arctic, and of course we will not let ourselves be squeezed out of that. Despite the challenges with Russia, it has fortunately been possible to work together on the Arctic in a so-called path alone and find solutions along those lines. The Reich community wants strong cooperation with all Arctic countries, which is why I am pleased that we, together with the United States, Canada, Norway and Russia, as well as China, Japan, the EU, South Korea and Iceland, have reached an agreement on fishing in the Arctic. And it must be quite clear that fishing should not start in the area without an adequate scientific and therefore sustainable basis. Denmark is actively participating in the Arctic Council, and this is where relations between states are very much handled. Denmark is an active member, especially in the environmental field, because we know that the ecosystems in the Arctic are particularly vulnerable. Then it is also important, as previous rapporteurs have also said, that we have a readiness to prepare, in the event that it is needed, it may be oil spills, or it may be accidents or other situations where there is a need for preparedness. There is a higher risk of oil spills or other situations where there may be a need for preparedness, because of the increased activity, and of course also somewhere due to climate change, which has made the Arctic more dangerous for ships, as well as, of course, the need for sea rescue, which is particularly topical with the increasing number of cruise ships in the waters. It is important that the Arctic Council acts as a focal point for coastal countries and conflicts can be avoided and that the militarisation of the Arctic does not escalate, because with the more aggressive behaviour of recent years, as I have mentioned earlier, it is important that we pay attention to this. Then I would also like to mention that it is therefore also regrettable that the European Union, for example, has not been able to do so. not even have observer status in the Arctic Council. It is against our interests that the European Union cannot participate on an equal footing with, for example, China and India, which have observer status, but fortunately, as I would say in conclusion, the entire Kingdom community is a strong voice in the development of the Arctic, which is why it is incredibly important that Denmark continues to strengthen cooperation with the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the Arctic, so we work together. Together, of course, we stand stronger and reach the longest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180417	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180420	I hear from the rapporteur words such as conflicts of interest in the Arctic and aggressive policies of the Russian side in the Arctic. These conflicts and aggressiveness on the part of the Russians are not mentioned in the Foreign Minister's report. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: what risks and tensions do the Left see in the Arctic, and on what basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180449	We don't think of it that way in a physical sense either. But we have seen that the various powers, other countries, foreign states have tried far from us, we can say that they are exercising their interests in the area, and we must, of course, be wary of that. But, of course, we should hope to resolve this in a peaceful manner, as I have also indicated in the rapporteur's speech, through continued strong and good cooperation in the Kingdom community and in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180518	Arctic Five rusts up the Arctic area, especially around the Arctic Ocean. What should Denmark do to ensure that there is a strong position in the Arctic Five, according to the rapporteur of the Left? Another thing is the European Union's observer status in the Arctic Council: what is Denmark going to do to ensure that the European Union joins as a possible observer in the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180545	There, through the opportunities offered by participating in the various forums, meetings, meetings, arguments for the matter, we must work in a democratic, dialogue-based way to promote these views, which I have also highlighted in the rapporteur's speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180601	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has not arrived, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009180621	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, and also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the very fine and, as always, very thorough statement. In the light of the statement, I believe that it must now be quite clear to all of us in this Chamber, as well as outside the Chamber, that cooperation in the Arctic region has never been more important than it is now, not only to ensure stability, but also to ensure economic growth in the region, and these two things are difficult to separate. If there is no political and security stability in the Arctic, we certainly cannot expect private companies or tourists to be able to put their money in the region. That is why we must continue to strengthen cooperation, not only with the other Arctic coastal states, but indeed within the Commonwealth, and in this respect I would like to begin by commending the government for having a great deal of focus on strengthening cooperation in the region. Among the initiatives taken by the government are the cooperation agreement with Greenland's Self-Government on preparedness, which means that Greenland can now request emergency services from the Danish Emergency Agency for Accidents and Disasters. Last summer, we actually saw how important it may be that the preparedness works in Greenland, when the tsunami hit the west coast, and if a similar disaster hits again then it must not happen.The Greenlanders are now better equipped to deal with such a situation. If you are to attract private investment to the Arctic regions, including Greenland, the companies must of course also be able to feel safe in the beautiful, but at times also quite harsh landscape that is in that part of the world, and be assured that if the accident is out, yes, the help is actually on the way. The same applies, of course, to the many tourists who hopefully will visit both Greenland and the Arctic region for many years to come. Among other things: That is why cooperation within the Kingdom Community is also so important, so that economic growth can be achieved, among other things. in Greenland. However, if you are to attract private investors, the infrastructure must be in place and therefore I am delighted, and of course also the Liberal Alliance, that the government has indicated that Denmark is now ready to cofinance the great ambitions of self-government when it comes to the expansion of airports in Greenland. As I said earlier, Arctic cooperation is also important internationally, perhaps even more important than ever, and here too the government, if I may say so, keeps the sled in the track, among other things. in connection with the fact that the decade of the Ilulissat Declaration has been reconfirmed between Denmark and the other Arctic coastal states, and there is support for the declaration, as if something is enough the foundation of continued international cooperation in the region. Very recently, Greenland and the Faroe Islands signed an agreement on fishing in the so-called Arctic High Sea with the other Arctic coastal states as well as Iceland, the EU, China, Japan and South Korea on behalf of the Kingdom Community. That agreement is extremely important in terms of ensuring the possible future exploitation of fish stocks in the Arctic and its sustainability, and forward-looking close cooperation between partners must ensure compliance with the agreement and prevent illegal fishing. In this context, however, we will probably not avoid talking about the Russian presence in the Arctic either. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned this in the past. In recent years, Russia seems to have reopened several arctic military bases, which have otherwise been closed since the end of the Cold War. Most recently we have seen an extension of a runway on Alexandra Island, as I know is less than 1,000 km from Greenland's north-east coast. With the expansion of a Russian base in this way, both military fighters and transport aircraft can now be serviced on site. In view of this, I can be a little concerned as rapporteur when I read the Reichsaudit's report on defence requirements in order to carry out its tasks in the Arctic. It's got, among other things. concluded that the vessels of the fleet in the Arctic do not have the necessary equipment or staff to perform their duties satisfactorily. The defence settlement back from January this year confirmed the 2016 Arctic Agreement to strengthen efforts in the Arctic, which is why the Liberal Alliance will certainly also follow very closely the development of defence's task solution in the Arctic and, of course, help to keep the government up to the objectives of the Arctic Agreement. All in all, I welcome the strong cooperation in the Arctic, both within the Kingdom community and internationally. This is essential in order to ensure the political stability needed to bring about economic growth and prosperity in the region. Finally, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that it has been thought from several quarters, most recently with the formation of government back in 2016, that Denmark might be able to appoint a minister for Arctic cooperation in the same way as we do today with a minister for Nordic cooperation. And who knows, maybe this is the last time we have this debate with the Foreign Minister. After the next parliamentary elections, it may be that this honour falls to an entirely new minister for Arctic cooperation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181256	Thank you, and there are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181300	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. It was, of course, an interesting comment which the rapporteur made at the end, so I would also like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to perhaps make what it could actually be. At least this is something that we from Inuit Ataqatigiits seem really, really exciting. After all, we ourselves have already proposed an Arctic minister in a future government, so it could be a ball that could be played with. As the rapporteur also mentioned, a number of measures have been taken by the government in order to strengthen the security of the Arctic, not least in the defence settlement that has been concluded this year, and that is a broad palette, one might say, by the parties of the Folketing, which have supported the initiatives that we have pointed out from the IA. So it is really, really positive with the good cooperation in that area. If you look at the Arctic parliamentarians, they meet about every two years. We have been to Lapland not long ago, where I represented the Danish Parliament together with my Faroese colleague Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, and here we are talking about both climate change, but we are also talking about economic development, and we are talking about digitalisation in the Arctic, i.e. issues quite different from what we actually see in this Arctic statement. I think it's kind of in contrast to each other. I would like to give the rapporteur an opportunity to reflect on how it might be that there is such a contrast between what is being talked about by the government and what many Greenlanders are preoccupied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181433	The word contrast, I think, maybe is a little exaggerated in this context. I actually think that the government and also the parties of the Folketing generally focus on many of the issues that, it might be said, concern both Arctic parliamentarians, but also more internationally. After all, it is not necessarily only the Arctic coastal states, as we have also heard in several other rapporteurs, that have an interest in the Arctic region. There are many things you can put emphasis on, and you can put more or less emphasis on one thing and the other. As the questioner may have noticed, some of my own points in my rapporteur's speech were precisely economic developments in the Arctic. The link between economic development and political stability is one of the things that I certainly attach great importance to in the approach I have to Arctic cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181531	Thank you very much. It is also something that Inuit Ataqatigiit is very concerned about, in other words political stability also in Greenland, which I also mentioned in my speech to the opening debate a few days ago. There is no doubt that we ourselves have a huge responsibility to create economic development in Greenland, and we also have that in relation to digitalisation. But there is, of course, a working group under the Arctic Council which is looking at how we can look at such little alternative solutions in terms of strengthening digitalisation in the Arctic. Because we are not very many people living in the Arctic, and that is why we need to think in other ways than only commercially. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181612	Thank you. There is certainly no doubt that digitalisation is, in general terms, a very important issue, no matter where we are on the planet, and of course it is also in the Arctic. Perhaps there could be an increase in cooperation in the field of satellite broadcasting, or something else, in terms of increasing digitalisation. This is perhaps an area in which engineering is very heavy, so I am not sure that I will go all the way into it in that respect. However, there is no doubt that cooperation is required, as in all other areas of the Arctic, and cooperation between the Arctic states will be required if digitalisation is to be increased in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181655	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181700	As the rapporteur also says, there is increased interest and activity in the Arctic, including in terms of armaments in different degrees and different countries. Arctic Five signed an agreement back in 2008, which says that the Ilulissat Declaration is the declaration that all Arctic Five countries and other countries must respect. Is it linked to that armament now with the Ilulissat declaration according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181729	Thank you for the question. I think that if the questioner had listened very carefully, the questioner would have discovered that I was just making an effort not to use the term 'armament'. Whether or not it is a question of armament, I will perhaps allow more defence experts to assess, but there is no doubt, as the questioner also draws my attention to the fact that there is increased activity, among other things. I also mentioned, in my rapporteur's speech, the re-establishment or, at least, the extension of a Russian runway in the Arctic area. Of course, as a kingdom and as a community of kingdoms, we must pay close attention to this in our security and foreign policy, and which I also emphasised in relation to the defence solution, the Danish Government must be ready to follow up the political agreements that exist, the Arctic Agreement, which has been reaffirmed in the defence settlement of January, etc., so that in Denmark too we are in any case able to solve the tasks that we have politically agreed on in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181853	The Americans want there to be a dual use purpose to finance the new airports in Greenland. Does the rapporteur see this as an increase in activity on the part of the Americans? Another thing: the rapporteur wants a minister for Arctic cooperation. What is the Minister for Arctic Cooperation specifically going to do in addition to what the Foreign Minister is doing today, and Denmark already has an Arctic ambassador?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181920	Again, with a great deal of attention to what I actually said in my rapporteur's speech, it was certainly not possible to say the intention to say that I wanted a minister for Arctic cooperation. I just found that it might be, in that it has been recommended from several quarters, among others. from some of the Members here in the Chamber, an advantage for Denmark with a minister for Arctic cooperation. Of course, I will leave that entirely up to a future prime minister when a possible new government is to be formed after a parliamentary election, i.e. whether or not there should be a minister for Arctic cooperation in such a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009181958	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I have been informed that the alternative rapporteur is in the process of advancing on this, but unfortunately has not yet arrived. So we'll save him for a little later. That's why we've reached sir. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182020	Thank you very much. At least I've moved forward, President. There is no doubt that the Arctic region and the developments in the Arctic region are part of what makes the kingdom of Denmark more and more than a small state. The climate change that is coming, the agreements that have been made, means that we are being looked at all over the world. The choices we make, both today and for the future, are being carefully studied, because the Arctic area will have such immense importance in terms of security policy, climate, economics and so on. Therefore, I would like to start by saying that if there is one thing I regret that I did not get done as Foreign Minister and that I will therefore give as a great tip to the current Foreign Minister, it is, whether you call it a Foreign Minister or an Arctic Minister, or what the future brings in that area in purely resort terms, that we strengthen the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Arctic area. It is in a way paradoxical that an area and theme that has such far-reaching consequences both in our time and in the future is being handled by so few people, very skilled people, preserved, not to overwhelm the Arctic office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but still by very few people, given how incredibly big things we are going through. Now there are actually signs in the sun and moon that we are going to turn up our Arctic efforts. This applies, as many have said, to the whole area of security policy, from the rescue of civilian services to the rescue of needy people through environmental disasters to the actual presence. After all, what are we to call it, the affair of how the territory is to be shared in the Polar Sea? The Ilulissat Declaration, which has happily been re-affirmed, and congratulations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that. But these are huge players we've got going on here. It is a huge responsibility of the only nation, the only kingdom that is a member of NATO, the European Union and the Arctic Five. No other country in the world is. Maybe we should take this a little seriously. When it comes to the climate, we are also a great power here. It is in Greenland that the main measurements of the changes in the climate of the planet take place. We are a great power when it comes to climate research, and it is one of the biggest things we contribute to the world's assessment of how much and how to act. These are the research efforts undertaken by both Danish and Greenlandic and Faroese and many other researchers and specialists. It also calls for greater coordination and strengthening. Finally, there is the whole economic area. Several speakers have mentioned this, among others. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, the need for digitisation and infrastructure in every sense in Greenland. Denmark has chosen to engage more actively in the infrastructure with the airports. We very much welcome this from the radical side. We are also now working on a new business fund to push for developments in all parts of the Commonwealth. We welcome that too. But we must do it wisely and also do it wisely. There I agree with those who say that why only Denmark should be invited? How do we get other players, not least European players, to contribute to the many private investments that need to be made? It is also something that requires diplomatic knuckles and advocates greater resources to be included in this. I think they will come back many times. Just to anticipate the issues that will certainly come, it is not really about strengthening the voice and power of Southern Denmark in the northern part of the kingdom. On the contrary, if you want to facilitate increased Greenlandic self-determination, an increased Greenlandic and Faroese opportunity for economic self-determination and to commit more, as you have a great desire for both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, a greater independence of foreign policy, then I think it takes more resources in the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs if you are to facilitate that path, regardless of how you choose to do so. So it will be today's call to the government, in other words to give strong consideration to the manning in this area and to consider how to integrate it into the many other policy areas that are pressing on, whether it is the traditional foreign and security policy, whether it is the European agenda or so many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182520	There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182525	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for an as always interesting speech. The Prime Minister has mentioned here not long ago that we have to rethink the way we conduct foreign policy, including when we talk Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I understand the rapporteur's wish that the competences and resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be increased a little, but, in Greenlandic spectacles, I can also be afraid that there might be a distortion, because this was the same discussion we had on the basis of the recommendation made by the Taksøe-Jensen report. And we can risk that in reality there will be more in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Arctic side than there actually will be in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs in Greenland's Self-Government. How can we do this wisely? Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that, for example. were more exchanges of officials between Greenland and Denmark, and that in this way some Greenlandic officials were better dressed, but in this way also helped to give officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a greater understanding of Greenland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182632	I haven't thought that through, to put it bluntly, but I think it sounds like an excellent thought. If you imagined that in the future you would turn up both in Greenland and in Denmark to strengthen what you might call the Atlantic voice in the world or the kingdom of Denmark, then I think it would be a very good idea. When I was Minister for Climate Change, we had some rather amazing experiences in exchanging officials in the climate field, both Greenlandic officials who were allowed to participate in the Danish negotiating delegations in the EU and other international forums, but also vice versa, i.e. Danish officials who came up and became wiser on the Arctic climate etc. We had great pleasure in this and I do not see why we should not be able to do the same in the field of foreign policy, which I believe is also the safest way to give Greenland, in this case, the greater voice and influence in the areas of foreign and security policy which are of great importance to Greenland. When I think it requires some extra staff in Denmark too, as it certainly does in Greenland, if this is to succeed, then it is simply because we also have experience with, among other things. When Mrs Aleqa Hammond was the chairman of the national government, that if we are to create greater cooperation in this area, among other things. invite Greenland to several meetings and more automatically, if I may say so, participate in important meetings that affect Greenland, so it also requires some preparation between Greenland and Denmark for it to succeed, and that applies to all diplomacy, in order to have previously balanced expectations and what it is that you have to prioritize within the narrow time frame you have and so that you do not duplicate each other etc. etc. So I think it requires more resources, but it certainly does on both sides, as well as greater interaction. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182823	When I went to the polls to become a member of Greenland's parliament, I said that knowledge is power, and one could in fact add that experience is also power. I would like to see more Greenlanders in the External Action Service, for example, thinking about our talents greater than Danish applicants. Now, for example, we have. Just got a good young Greenlandic girl going to New York and working at the United Nations with the rights of indigenous peoples, a position that I had 12 years ago. I think it is fantastic that you get that experience from foreign policy under your skin, instead of just reading about it or hearing about it. So I think this whole thing about thinking a little creative when it comes to developing competences in Greenland, because I think that's the whole foundation. One has to create one, what to say, a food chain, in that we have these foreign policy competences and understanding of diplomacy, including in Greenland, if we want to play a greater foreign policy role in Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182921	There is no doubt that this is a very important point. Without comparison, we are discussing a great deal in Denmark how we can merge more Danish citizens into the EU system, and it is a bit from the same thinking, namely to learn more about what is going on down there, so that we can better influence it later and understand the mechanics of it. I think there would be a great deal of perspective in getting more representatives and more employees from all parts of the national community in the Danish foreign service. That's for sure. You can just see what that can lead to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182952	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009182958	The Chinese have appointed the Polar Sea, the Polar Sea, as one of their areas of action in the future and call them the northern silk road, and since the Chinese interest in co-financing airport construction in Greenland is now taken over more by Denmark and the United States, I do not think that Chinese interest in investing in the Arctic area will disappear. What does the rapporteur see as a possible risk or benefit of the Chinese's entry into the Arctic regions in this context for the kingdom's waters? Another thing: What must the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to be geared up to the task that stands before us as a kingdom and part of the Arctic Five?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183054	I share the analysis. Nor do I believe that the Chinese interest will disappear either from Greenland or from the Arctic region as such. I think I will say in general terms that all investments in developing the private sector in Greenland I welcome, and I think Greenland will also need that, but I am one of those who believe that when it comes to critical infrastructure, that is to say, I should greet and say, even in our part of the kingdom, and I would prefer to see that owned by independent actors, if I may say so. I would say that if there were some things I could do about Danish politics, it was among other things. the sale of the airport in Kastrup to private persons; it was the sale of TDC's broadband; it is one of the things that I think I do not know if I am taking too many for revenue • is one of the things that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament would have liked to have changed if one could today, whereas the fact that we had our energy infrastructure in an independent publicly owned company, which one cannot accuse of pursuing security policy or monopoly interests, is a very good thing. So when it comes to critical infrastructure, I want to say that I think you should be careful who you invite in. It does not just have something to do with China, but is a position of principle that I have. When it comes to ordinary investment in private companies, etc., I think everyone should be welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183220	Greenland has been calling for very clear cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on foreign affairs in Greenland for many years. Especially when Denmark talks with large countries and other countries around the Arctic and possible investments and military and similar, it is rare that Greenland is present. Denmark has a commitment to this under the Itilleq Declaration, but it is very few times that Greenland is invited to sit at the table when Denmark discusses the Arctic and discuss military bases in Greenland with other countries. What does the rapporteur think should be done to ensure that this dialogue and closer cooperation in the field of foreign policy is ensured?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183310	I actually agree with the Prime Minister that we need to look at this field a little openly. It may sound banal, but with the experiences I have, as I have among others. I believe, with the rapporteur, that it is to a very large extent about trying to build up a trust which has at some point gone the whistle over the past few years. I see nothing more than that Denmark, understood as the southern part of the kingdom, has an active interest in involving the Greenlanders and the Faroe Islands and thus also becoming wiser and more qualified on what can be done and cannot be done in those areas of the kingdom. Nor can I see anything other than that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have an active interest in coordinating closely with Denmark, because Denmark also sits in some forums where Greenland and the Faroe Islands do not sit, among other things. in the EU and NATO, and although we are also a small state, down here we have some opportunities for it, but which only become stronger by coordinating closely with Greenland. I really think that there is a lot to be said for the fact that all parties have a strong interest in a trusting dialogue and joint coordination here, but we also know that in practice it has been harder than that, because of course the conflict arises if you disagree on what is the right way to go, just as you can disagree on what is the right way to go, and just as you can disagree in Greenland and the Faroe Islands on what is the right way to go. So what do you do in these situations? That is what we need to be better at finding out how to handle, because it must also be so in a trusting relationship; sometimes one disagrees, and then a majority decides.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183455	The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183458	Thank you. The rapporteur recently published a book dealing with cooperation and getting out of the trenches and meeting in the middle. Congratulations on that. But meeting in the middle and putting the conflicts aside is not something that is easy in politics. We can just look at the reporters who have mentioned the book. They've been looking with light and light for the conflict in this book, which is about cooperation. Where's the conflict in this? And what kind of conflict is this? This is how we always look for conflict. However, when it comes to the Arctic, we have seen a dilemma between cooperation and conflict in Russia. There's a very large shadow resting all over this field. That is the question: should we enter into the clear conflict that is there with Russia and thus perhaps lose the opportunities for the cooperation that we have, or should we continue with the cooperation that we have, and perhaps close our eyes to the conflict that we have, and perhaps be equally naive and lose in the long run? It is such a major dilemma that all foreign ministers currently have: cooperation or conflict? Are you naive, or are you risking too much by doing one thing or another? What is the rapporteur's position? How does the rapporteur, as former Foreign Minister, view this dilemma? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183619	Thank you for your congratulations. I can totally confirm what it feels like to be in the media when it comes to my book. There are a lot of people who are interested in seeking out the conflicts that I otherwise deliberately try to avoid. After all, this is a huge question being asked here: how best to deal with Russia? I believe that we need to move forward with what one might call a firm hand towards President Putin and the oligarchs and the regime surrounding him, which I see as a regime and more like a dictatorship than a democracy. It is not an art to be elected if you liquidate your opponents and control all the media. But we have to combine that with what might be called an outstretched hand for the Russian people. This includes trade and cultural exchanges, student exchanges, etc. etc. Where, of course, it will be really difficult and delicate in the Atlantic relationship, after all, when Putin and Russia have responded to the fairly targeted sanctions we imposed against him and his minions precisely, by introducing more general sanctions back on European countries. And that, of course, puts the Faroe Islands in a very special situation. Because, on the one hand, the Faroe Islands are not part of the European Union and are therefore not obliged to do anything that the European Union may have done, and are therefore not affected by the sanctions that Russia is shooting back with. On the other hand, the Faroe Islands, like all of us, are interested in promoting peaceful and democratic development in Russia. So I could almost turn the question back. Perhaps I could have the opportunity to do so later: what does the rapporteur think is the right thing to do here? Because that's a delicate balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183808	There is no pressure for a follow-up question. Then I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, so that is why we move on to Mr SF's report. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009183826	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. There is increasing interest in the Arctic, and it has been there for several years. The Arctic has become increasingly important, not least in relation to environmental measures and the prevention of climate change. Fortunately, the kingdom has a strong presence in the Arctic and a cooperation that actually works very well. But it goes without saying that any conflicts will be handled and resolved peacefully... we will have to work hard to make them stay. Nor is it self-evident that the Kingdom has such a strong voice as we have today. This requires that we continue to focus on the area and that we continue to have strong cooperation internally with our Kingdom colleagues Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Denmark's foreign and security policy strategy for 2017-2018 points out the Arctic as one of the five priorities with a particular focus on peaceful economic development. We're focused on the area, and it's going well. This year is the tenth anniversary of the Ilulissat Declaration. Here the Arctic coastal states reaffirmed their support for the Declaration. That is something we attach great importance to. The declaration marks the desire of coastal states to cooperate through international bodies and legislation. It is an important signal to the outside world that we can work together despite the differences we may have with the other coastal states. A good example of international cooperation here is that Denmark and Canada have now set up a working group to look at the maritime border crossing between Denmark and Canada. Denmark and Canada have long disagreed on the limit within and outside the 200 nautical miles. Then there is the question of His Island: it is a border crossing which is not insignificant and which we are cooperating peacefully with the Canadians on. In the new defence settlement, emphasis was also placed on the Arctic as a new focus area. In the settlement there was broad political agreement on new initiatives in the Arctic, including the establishment of emergency training and military service testing in Greenland. In addition, the previous Arctic Agreement is being continued, in other words, the great efforts of the armed forces in the region are being maintained. Furthermore, pollution control equipment is being strengthened in the waters around Greenland. The Arctic must, of course, continue to be demilitarised, but the crucial thing is that we have emergency and environmental opportunities in place in the area. It has been under-priority in the past, but with the new defence agreement the focus has again been placed on the area. Traditional patrols and deterrents must continue to be part of the defence repertoire. This is in the interests of the whole Kingdom community, and we must, of course, take the same measures in the Arctic as in other neighbourhoods. There is great potential in the Arctic. When the Kingdom speaks with a common voice and has strong cooperation around the Arctic, it gives us the opportunity to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by the area. When there is stability around the borders and the waters of the Arctic, it offers opportunities for investment and sustainable economic development for the benefit of the local population. We can therefore welcome the fact that closer cooperation is being worked out within the Arctic Economic Council, which is central to private engagement in the area. We can also welcome the signing last week of an international fisheries agreement between the Arctic coastal states, as well as Iceland, the European Union, China, Japan and South Korea. It was Greenland and the Faroe Islands that signed on behalf of the kingdom, and this testifies to the fact that Denmark's members of the kingdom are certainly also at the forefront of our joint international cooperation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been at a conference on sustainable economic development in the Arctic. Here, the focus was on the UN's global goals and on how to implement them in the Arctic. In addition, the Kingdom has been very active in identifying growth and investment opportunities in the Arctic through the EU. It is crucial that the EU plays a role in future investments in Greenland. We can't talk about the Arctic without talking about the Kingdom community. After all, we have a very proud Kingdom Community that we are very pleased about, and there we believe that the goal for us must be that we can constantly develop and adjust the cooperation in the Kingdom Community to ensure that it benefits all three countries in the Kingdom Community. This is the only way to preserve a voluntary community which the Kingdom community is, namely by all parties involved in it feeling that it is beneficial to them. At the moment that the kingdom community does not benefit either Denmark, Greenland or the Faroe Islands, it will fall apart. So if we are to preserve it, we must always ensure that it benefits all three parties. We believe that there is a great deal we can work together on. I certainly believe that we have had a great deal of joy from the community • what we have had over the past 200 years. There is much that binds us together: culture, history and the economy, and, above all, cooperation around the Arctic and the challenges and potentials of this vast area that are of increasing importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184425	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184430	There is factually an armor in progress in the Arctic area. We recently saw this when England's deployment of soldiers in northern Norway took place, and this was alone to protect Western interests in the Arctic. We also see an armor from the Russian side, and not least we see the Chinese bet very big on using the Arctic area as the Arctic Silk Road. All this is not mentioned in the report. What does the rapporteur of the Conservatives think could be the possible consequences of the great interest we see from other countries outside the Kingdom? And what should the Arctic strategy of the Kingdom be aware of in the coming period, when we see all these initiatives taking place despite the Ilulissat Declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184524	So, on the one hand, you can understand the great interest, because it is a very important area and major powers have a great interest in the area. But personally, I am sceptical that both the Chinese and the Russians are so offensive in the area. That it is not mentioned in the report, the rapporteur will have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184549	The questioner has nothing more, and then we thank the Conservative rapporteur and move forward. And the next speaker is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009184606	Greenland is one fifth of the Arctic and is therefore an important player in the Arctic. It makes no sense, therefore, to begin by describing that relations between Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not included in this statement. The empire is represented in the Arctic among powerful and influential countries primarily because of Greenland's role in the Arctic. Of course, efforts together with the North Atlantic countries should also be considered and respected. I do not know whether it is such a slightly clumsy wording that may have been made, but that is the feeling that you have when you read the statement. The international political work in the Arctic has been very much about climate, biodiversity, new shipping routes, security policy and sustainability. The Arctic report also bears the hallmark of this. Therefore, it is also gratifying that in recent years the 4 million people who live in the Arctic and form an important human capital in the Arctic have increasingly been highlighted. In Greenlandic, Greenland is called Kalaalit Nunaat or Inuit Nunaat, which means the land of man. For the people who live in Greenland and the Arctic, it is about development in the Arctic both in terms of looking at climate change and its many consequences, but equally in terms of jobs, housing and good schools for your children. It's about education, and it's about research. These are many of the same things that this is about for the people of the rest of the world. Therefore, there is also an important point for Inuit Ataqatigiit to say that we must focus on the human dimension in the Arctic. We are not very many people in the Arctic compared to in the southern part of the world, and therefore each human resource counts in the Arctic. As Parliament's representative on the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, I am fortunately also seeing that we are talking much more about business development, job creation and increased digitalisation in the Arctic. In Greenland, 83 per cent have. of the population access to the Internet, and out of the 56,000 people we are in Greenland, 43,000 people are on Facebook just to give some examples. Greenland is also a modern society, just as it is a very traditional society. With the few people we have in the Arctic, we cannot only think commercially. We also need to think creatively and alternatively. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we would like to find solutions to increase digitalisation in the Arctic in cooperation. In many parts of the Arctic, we have either the Internet via sea cables, via radio chains or via satellites. But Internet access is also expensive, and it is unevenly distributed among the almost 80 settlements that are in Greenland. The Arctic Council has previously set up a working group to look at solutions across the eight Arctic States of the Arctic Council. This is an important work that we follow from Inuit Ataqatigiits, as we know that digitisation also strengthens other business areas such as tourism, entrepreneurship and many other areas. The Government supports the research and training cooperation in the UArctic area of cooperation between universities in the Arctic. Inuit Ataqatigiit will encourage the government to maintain their financial support for UArctic in the coming years, for when we exchange knowledge when we let the Arctic students visit each other, it is extremely valuable for the development of the Arctic. It opens the eyes of Greenlandic students to the rest of the Arctic and the rest of the world when we are also challenged by our habitual thinking and our way of living and solving the social challenges. Across the parties in Greenland, we agree that education is a high priority. We use barely 20 per cent. of our bnp in Greenland on education, and even if we in Greenland are also told that we have one of the world's most expensive primary schools, it is something that is really, really important to us. Due to the many scattered settlements, it may be difficult to ensure good quality in folk schools, but it is of real importance for Greenlandic society and development in the Arctic when we focus on education and research. These days and these months, the European Union is discussing a future budget for 2021-2027, and it is proposing a massive reduction in support for Greenland's educational efforts in the so-called partnership agreement. In the draft that we have seen, a saving of 22 million has been proposed. EUR 165 million, or equivalent to EUR 165 million. Danish kroner. This is something that can be felt in the Greenlandic education system, and it will have a massive impact on training measures, which are otherwise very well under the current partnership agreement. It is also a breach of the joint declaration between Greenland and the European Union from 2015 and the practice that has existed for many years to negotiate the fisheries agreement and the partnership agreement at the same time. The joint declaration, which is also called the partnership agreement between Greenland and the European Union, intends to develop and extend cooperation and not to weaken the cooperation that is now being proposed. At times you can look at it together and there we know that Greenland's fisheries negotiations with the EU have not always been beneficial to Greenland, and that is why we need to look at this from a broader perspective. That is why I also believe that it is a mistake for two such important agreements for both parties, both for Greenland and for the European Union, not to be seen in the context that they should. The British exit from the EU also affects the OCT countries; there are fewer of them. And if the EU's reduced budget for aid to Greenland would be 22 million. kr. We are not even sure of that. It goes to some pools that Greenland has the opportunity to search. But it can be said that it is more uncertain money than the agreement that is currently in place. The present proposal will be a clear deterioration for Greenland, but also for the Kingdom community. And the losers in this game will be the Greenlandic students that we need so badly in Greenland. Therefore, it is also important that the government addresses Greenland's case in this matter and ensures direct consultation and negotiation with Greenland. It must be done close and early in the process. It must be a common objective that the amount allocated so far should also be guaranteed in the next budget for future years. The latest model that has been presented means quite specifically that the funds are much more uncertain in the case of Greenland, as this really is a very severe cut in the agreement with Greenland. On the Greenland side, we often find that we are involved late in the process in relation to the European Union. And a call from us is that Denmark could be a pioneer country by proposing that, after the European Parliament elections, an intergroup focusing on the Arctic should be set up. It could, for example, do so. be called Friends of the Arctic, and it could be in cooperation with some of the other Nordic countries, which are also part of the Arctic. This could ensure a closer and more proactive involvement of the Arctic countries in the European Union, and this is one of the objectives that Inuit Ataqatigiit will be presenting in a forthcoming globalisation exercise that we will be bringing forward here later this month. Another important area is climate. The UN climate panel has just published their latest report here yesterday, and this is worrying knowledge when we talk about the research that is in this area. The report stresses that a much larger amount must be set aside than in the past in order to maintain the goal of a global warming increase of only 1.5 degrees. In other words, we can say that the climate action that is being done right now is inadequate and there is a need for more massive action. It is now well-known knowledge that the temperature in the Arctic increases at double speed compared to the rest of the world. This means that the higher temperatures in the Arctic affect the life and everyday life of the 4 million people in the Arctic twice as much as in the rest of the world. This also means that the melting of e.g. The ice sheet in Greenland affects the oceans around the world, which rise around the world. You could say that what is happening in the Arctic is also something that affects the rest of the world. Therefore, it is important that both we in Greenland are involved in doing what we can in order to stop the consequences of climate change, but also that this is done very much by the government. In conclusion, it is very positive that the government is maintaining the Arctic as a priority in the foreign and security policy strategy for the coming years. Inuit Ataqatigiit looks forward to the report on corporate finance and work for sustainable and economic development in the Arctic. We want to take part in this work as Greenlandic MPs as much as possible, because the more we stand together, the easier we can also promote good intentions and turn them into concrete actions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185653	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185657	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for an always constructive and good speech. I would like to ask a few questions about the desire of both Greenland and the IA for greater influence in the field of foreign policy. What are the hottest dreams that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen could imagine here? Is it that within the existing framework, if I may say so, the current constitution will be much better at intensifying cooperation and dialogue between Greenland and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or is it a whole new form of foreign policy division that we are thinking of? Could the rapporteur elaborate on what she is dreaming of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185741	Thank you for the question. After all, there is such an underlying discussion about when we are self-employed, and I think so too I have to deal with ultracards, because I do not have much time. But I do not want to say when Greenland will become independent. In fact, I think it is an important process towards independence that we have greater involvement. I often think that we are getting a little bit behind in terms of what is happening in foreign policy and what is happening in relation to the Arctic. So one of the things I dream most of is much closer coordination, much earlier coordination on the short and medium track. Then I think of the long track, and it is a very complex question to have to answer in such a short time: but I would like to see there also being a cooperation with Denmark in the future, even when Greenland once becomes independent, but that it is in another constellation. That constellation must then be found jointly: how can we work together, and what is the relationship we should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185847	Thank you. Is there, then, in the short run any particular foreign policy areas which are of greater interest than other areas of interest, if I may say so? Of course, there are, but which are the main points that it would make sense to start with in the rapporteur's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185906	Thank you very much. I think that the areas which have an impact on economic development in Greenland have a particular interest in Greenland. We look, for example. In the Faroe Islands, where you have more free trade agreements than what we have in Greenland, it could be something that you could develop together. Greenland can, of course, conduct foreign policy in taken over, i.e. reclaimed areas, and it could be interesting to see how one could strengthen the competences in Greenland precisely in order to take over more and more and in order to become more and more equal partners. That is actually the objective I think there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009185955	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then the next one is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009190020	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. It is a thorough review of a number of the initiatives Denmark is part of in the Arctic. It is good to see that most of these collaborations work well and that Denmark remains actively involved and is even firstmover in several areas. The purpose of this statement is to provide information on the progress of concrete work in the Arctic, with particular emphasis on foreign and geopolitical agendas and international cooperation in the Arctic. The most surprising thing for me, however, is the points that the report does not mention. It seems that all potential conflict areas between Greenland and Denmark have been taken out of the statement. There is nothing about Thulebasen and new contracts, there is nothing about China's interests in Greenland, and there is nothing about seal and whale catches within the EU. Similarly, there is no mention of what Denmark intends to do in the form of new initiatives or visions about what Denmark can get out of a future effort in the Arctic. The Kingdom of Denmark's Strategy for the Arctic 2011-2020 focuses both on addressing the challenges and on the potentials of the Arctic. All the while, we hear again and again about Russian military policy actions in the Arctic region. Most recently, information has come to light that Russia is now reopening and arming a base only 1,000 km from Greenland, while at the same time it is reported that Russia is also developing new submarines with missiles so powerful that there are no current means of stopping them. I wonder whether this is also linked to the investment interest recently expressed by the United States in relation to Greenland. The United States needs to arm itself in Greenland. In other words, the mantra of peace, low tension and cooperation, repeated in the statement as an objective already achieved on Greenlandic and Danish initiatives through the Ilulissat Declaration, unfortunately does not look as sustainable as the statement prescribes. There is a factual build-up going on in the Arctic area, which was firmly established with England's recent deployment of soldiers in northern Norway alone with the aim of protecting the western interests of the Arctic. The new build-up takes place both on land, on water and in space, and Greenland is again a focal point in this new cold Arctic war. There is nothing in the statement about the government's attitude to Russia constantly arming itself in its Arctic region. Nor does it say how the government feels about the US upgrading their radar at Thulebase and now itself declaring that the base is directly involved in the operation of the missile shield. There is nothing about China's new Arctic strategy and the plan for an Arctic Silk Road, a project that can lead to huge increases in Chinese investment and cooperation in the Arctic. The EU's Arctic policy and approach is a rights-based approach. This should be the main tool for integrating support for indigenous peoples into the EU's implementation of the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Where are the references to Denmark and the EU's different positions on whaling and trade in seal skins? And what initiatives are being taken to use this issue actively in connection with the Arctic Council and the European Union's observer status? The EU itself has concluded that the EU is underinvesting in the Arctic. What is the government doing to ensure that future EU investment goes to Greenland? The Kingdom is covered by the Biodiversity Convention and the work of the Arctic Council on monitoring biodiversity supports the work of the CBD. The OSPAR Convention, which includes the North-East Atlantic, is currently working on the protection of marine waters. In this context, Greenland and Denmark have diverse interests, which are not mentioned in the report, and I am calling for Denmark's arguments not to follow up Greenland's interests in this matter. The report praises the new digital mapping of the Greenlandic land area, but fails to mention the disastrous charting of the sea caused by the government's relocation of jobs. A new strategy for the entire Arctic Council is on the way, and I am curious to see whether it also includes a defence of whaling and seal capture and a more active response to the pollution in the Arctic which has recently led to a warning now in East Greenland against eating specific whales. It also shows that there are studies on industrial development and investment opportunities in the Arctic, and this can only be welcomed. The first Danish container ship has recently sailed through the North-East Passage, which offers future opportunities for Danish maritime transport in the Arctic. The Arctic is developing rapidly in the economic, transport and military fields. All the great powers are in the process of placing themselves in new positions in relation to this development. With its geography, the Kingdom has a responsibility and an interest not to be denied by developments in the Arctic. The climate will change, world traffic will be changed and the security situation will look quite different than it is today. It is important that the members of the Danish Parliament understand how extensive the changes in the Arctic are and what game Denmark through Greenland has become a part of. In this context, it would have been desirable to have a more visionary and analytical presentation for Parliament's debate on the Arctic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009190652	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009190720	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement and the opportunity to talk about Arctic relations. I must admit, however, that the form of the report is characterised by a summary by officials of what is happening in various cooperation forums linked to the Arctic on an operational basis. Politics and vision are not so much, and that is why we do not see the great political brush strokes in the presentation. However, I will immediately sign for the focus on sticking to the Arctic as a low-voltage area. It is an immensely important ambition, and it is gratifying that the great nations too, at least so far, are helping to meet that agenda. After all, we know that the Arctic is developing as one of the geopolitical hotspots in the world, as the ice melts and both sea and rural areas become more accessible. This creates great interest not only among the countries bordering the Arctic but also in other countries that see opportunities in new transport patterns and the exploitation of natural resources. The people must switch from a life on the outskirts of the world and move into a life that can develop into a political melting pot. We have recently seen that Denmark, in agreement with the United States, took an active part in the airport projects in order to prevent Chinese involvement and dominance in this field. So it is not just about working groups and climate, but also about a geopolitical race for influence in the region. It is foreign and security policy that Greenland and the Faroe Islands will naturally relate to. It is our existence that is affected by it. That is why it may also seem a little bit taken over when it is stressed at the beginning of the report that relations between Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands will be dealt with in another forum who will say: we will not interfere in this debate. But that cannot be avoided. The geopolitical interest among other nations and actors thus creates new opportunities and threats in relation to the existence of the Arctic. This is, of course, positive when more people want to participate in research of different kinds. However, it is not enough to put money into projects of a scientific nature or to strengthen the interests of individual third countries and organisations. For those of us who live up north, Arctic politics is primarily about the people who live in the area and their welfare. They are greatly affected by major climatic changes, which have a major impact on the interaction between man and nature. The withdrawal of the ice can be followed almost by the naked eye, but what happens below sea level is not so visible. But climate change also affects the temperature of the sea, current conditions and the flow of cold water from the Arctic and south and cold water north. We do not yet know how much it can affect life in the sea on our edges, but if it has negative consequences, then it is serious for the Faroe Islands, Greenland and other parts of the Arctic, where life in the sea is very much the basis of life for the population. That is why pollution of the seas and the warming of the planet are a threat that must be addressed. And not only do we do that, but we do it together with those countries that have large CO2 We need a joint effort, so that all over the world we direct towards a more sustainable relationship with nature. And more sustainable use of the world's resources. This leads me to the objectives of the world, which are mentioned a few times in the report. I think it would be quite natural in the future to calibrate efforts in the Arctic in relation to the global goals, because it is precisely about finding the necessary sustainable balance between people and nature, which can give our descendants roughly the same opportunities for a good life on this planet as we have ourselves. If we can get the actors to lift up together and measure our results so that we can see if there really is a momentum, then we can also avoid these more airy ideas in the debate on the Arctic. It would be a good starting point to identify the priorities of the people of the Arctic, because we cannot relate to them all at the same time. Nor will we get anywhere with this global target agenda in the Arctic unless the Arctic countries themselves lead the efforts. The global objectives of climate, education, the sustainable development of business and the sea are very relevant. The blue economy or Blue Growth is just ahead, and here we have more development opportunities and improvement potentials. Shipping and cruise activity are two of the kinds that require great vigilance, so it is done in controlled forms that also benefit the Arctic areas. As there may be massive sizes of ships and the number of passengers on board, for safety reasons a model for a rescue service must also be developed which can measure traffic. I do not think that the relatively sparsely populated area of the Arctic is able to pay for this alone, but why should they also, when it is mostly about transit or tourist traffic, which has its registered office elsewhere than in the Arctic? Some form of charge could be envisaged in relation to distance travelled in Arctic waters, which are part of the financing of surveillance and rescue services. The system is known from aviation, where everyone pays an aviation tax, which also contributes to the rescue service. But the greatest potentials in the blue economy lie in fishing and farming and products that are developed against this background. 700 million people go to bed hungry every day, and if the world's population grows by another two billion people within the next thirty years, a lot of food will have to be produced. It will be difficult to continue the growth of food production on land, but the oceans are large and cover 70% of the globe and deliver a relatively small part of the food to the world's population. We can do something about this in the North Atlantic, so that we both create a sustainable welfare basis for the people of the Arctic and help supply the world with food. Of course, we must constantly adapt our use of resources so that we get an optimal benefit from, among other things, fisheries resources over time. But we can also develop more products so that none of the biomass is lost. The West Nordic cooperation has shown by examples how marine products such as seal skins, fish skins and seaweed can be used in the fashion industry, which is desperately looking for ways to reduce their high levels of pollution. At the experimental stage the project has been a huge success, and now it remains to develop the market economy. In the Faroe Islands, the development of sustainable salmon farming is at the forefront, which is very much related to both sustainability and global goals. At the same time, we are engaged in sprouting seaweed farming, which can, in the long term, develop into regular seaweed forests that can both reduce CO2 Let us see more business breaks that serve the Arctic area and the Arctic people. But remember, it is all useless if markets like the United States and the European Union keep out the products produced in the Arctic. This was done after the seal campaigns many years ago, and the result is that the amount of seals has grown tremendously by several million and each consumes 10 kilos of fish a day. This means that the Arctic population both lost its seal catch, but also that seals keep fish stocks at a significantly lower level than before. It costs money for the Arctic population and provides a smaller supply of food for the world's population. But it probably gives more voices among those who have grown up in a city and have no other relationship to meat than what you get from a freezer disc in a supermarket. For many years, Faroese and Faroese professions have worked in the Arctic region. We have fished on the coasts of Newfoundland, the coasts of Greenland, in the Bering Sea. We have been up at Jan Mayen at Svalbard, and as far as I know, the Faroese fishermen are the ones all over the world who have fished farther north. We think that a sensible agreement has been reached on the Arctic the other day, but that means that we can only release it to normal commercial fishing in approx. 16 years after a trial period. We have also confirmed agreement with Norway and Iceland on the border crossing of the continental shelf north of the Faroe Islands, which means that our base area is expanded by 27,000 square kilometers, so that it covers a total of 310,000 square kilometers and the northernmost tip is now north of the Arctic Circle. Then you've got it with you. Let me conclude by saying that I lament the obstacles which Danish formalism sometimes places in the way of the natural development of cooperation between Faroese, Icelandic and Greenlanders. We do not need such obstacles in a world that rotates as quickly as it does today. Of course, we also have to develop our cooperation, and if you place more obstacles, it also damages the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I am delighted, however, that the Western Nordic Council has received observer status in the Arctic Council and I hope that political cooperation will forge us together as a strong voice in the Arctic in the future. Because we cannot ignore the fact that it is we who live in the North Atlantic and Arctic region that have to live with and with the development that is being created in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009191800	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. It was a nice time course. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009191812	Thank you. In the much - mentioned Taksøe report, which came some years ago, the Kingdom community was referred to as an Arctic great power. That's what it said. Perhaps the more correct thing would be to say that this is something that the Kingdom community can become, because the future that position does not come of itself. But of course there are possibilities, primarily because of Greenland and then because of the Faroe Islands, which shows how important in Greenland and the Faroe Islands is for Denmark's position and Denmark's weight in the world. It also shows how important and how dependent Denmark's foreign policy is on a good relationship and strong cohesion within the kingdom community. That is why I have to sign for everything that has been said about it from the platform here tonight. Of course, we also have great common interests. I am sure that in the Arctic one plus one plus one can give more than three, mainly because of Greenland's huge area, which is clearly the most important asset. Since then, the Faroe Islands are located in the middle of the coming sailing route north of Russia, it is also a major asset, and Denmark has a much greater diplomatic force than the other countries have. Therefore, it is important that we take advantage of these three factors together in order to have a synergy effect. These opportunities should create interest, they should create dynamism and a debate that was heated. They don't, maybe because you're doing it a little wrong. Now, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few brief comments on this subject. It is a list of factual facts and it is difficult to get upset about it. And then it even says explicitly that what has a Community-wide character is not part of it. It's a new word, the internal character of the national community. It's the bow. That's weird. There's nothing to do with the Arctic that isn't a community within. It's almost absurd to say that. We have seen the government invest relatively large sums of money in Greenland's infrastructure lately in order to avoid the money being borrowed from China instead. It's about preventing a Chinese influence in Greenland. It's big politics, isn't it? It's about influence on a big scene. Two days later, there was an announcement from the United States that they would also like to be involved in financing these things. This shows that there is a major policy in this. This should be something that was more heated up about, because there are certainly many things that could create a dynamic conflict-filled debate in this Chamber. What is going on is so much a community within, to use that word now. What we are discussing today is a statement that is full of very fine words, very fine intentions. You agree with all things, and when you agree with everything, someone has said too little, because if you say something that everyone agrees with, you have not said so much. And, unfortunately, the truth is that now I have worked a lot with the Arctic in recent years - that throughout the whole debate on the Arctic there are very such fluffy word streams about it. Three weeks ago I was in Inari, northern Finland, where the Arctic parliamentarians had their annual meeting. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen was also involved. Several days of debates then led to a vote, and it was fine, the debate was good. It was then adopted, and it was then sent to all governments and the Arctic Council. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he knows whether his ministry has received this approval from the Arctic parliamentarians and, if so, what happens to it. How is it treated? Is it used for inspiration, or what happens to the decisions that are made? Sometimes you're afraid that all the discussions going on around are going on in closed rooms like Facebook's echo rooms, and they're not going anywhere. There's no command line from these rooms, and that's a problem. In a few days, there will be Arctic Circle in Reykjavik, and it's also packed with lectures, conferences and breakout sessions and panel discussions and sticks and cake and coffee and sushi and all these people and officials who are experts in walking around with these plates with a clamp that you hang on the wine glass and swap business cards. There's a lot of it, unfortunately. But there is a content that is very important, and that can be a shadow of content. But the content is very important and therefore it is also important that an Arctic working group is in the Folketing. For us who live in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, it is important; it is not just talk. We have an Arctic working group that will also be at the next conference in Arctic Circle. We are trying to focus on the real things, not on the completely fluffy things where you talk about sustainability, sustainability and again sustainability, but on something that matters to the people who live there. In 2 weeks, the focus will be on shipping and business in a mutually dependent Arctic. We have had initiatives in the past which have really moved something that has created interest and where people have really attached some ties that they have further developed since. So it is very important that you do it and that you have a focus and not let it drown in the conferences that are there. We are focusing on fishing, on business opportunities, on transport, on tourism, on infrastructure, on telecommunications, etc., and I think that has given something back. It has moved something, and it has brought out some people who might otherwise not have been involved in what is happening, would not have been involved in the investments being made. Sometimes it helps to cut through the flow of empty words that roll out. The elephant in space, when it comes to the Arctic, is of course Russia. At the congress I attended in Finland and which I spoke about before, I asked the Finnish Foreign Minister a question. I said: we are now sitting here, some representatives from all the Arctic countries, and all the countries have shown dozens of diplomats from one country, namely Russia. The conflict on Crimea, on Salisbury, on support for Assad in the Middle East, etc. After all, it has created a very serious conflict between the West and Russia. How can we cooperate in the north while we have a very big conflict in the south? Britain will send 800 soldiers to northern Norway and place them there permanently because it is believed that the danger of aggression from Russia is so great. On our way home from Inari we stopped in Kirkenes, Norway, as far as northern Norway. There were posters hanging on the walls around the village, where it said: Help Frode home. Frode is an ordinary citizen of Kirkenes, who was in Russia and was taken by the Russian authorities and has been sitting there for a long, long time, but cannot come home again, accused of being the messenger of the Norwegian intelligence service. As is understood, there was evidence that that was what he was. Another place in Kirkenes is a great monument, in memory of the liberation of the Churches in 1944: thanks to the valiant soldiers of the Soviet Union. So, in 1944 it was the Soviet Union, the Russians who freed the Churches, and now there is a great conflict between the countries where the Russian authorities take a Norwegian citizen and accuse him of being a messenger to the Norwegian intelligence service. This shows how much the conflict has become and how much things have changed lately. That is why I would like to ask the Minister about this balancing exercise, which I also mentioned earlier in a question: how does Denmark tackle that balancing process? One can be naive and not face the conflict and cooperation and cooperation until one has gone too far or one can face confrontation and risk losing cooperation. It's also a lose-lose situation, as it used to be. What is the overall view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this dilemma? Should we cooperate with the risk that the conflict will go too far before stopping, or should we take the confrontation at the risk of losing the opportunity for cooperation, which is extremely important? What is the overall view of government? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009192739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the case that sir... Rasmus Nordqvist did not have the opportunity to be here, as it was actually the alternative's turn, and as we are very friendly here, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist the word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009192754	First of all, I would like to thank the President very much for giving me the opportunity to speak now, and I regret to my colleagues that I could not be here. There was a bit of a mess in the schedule, and I'm afraid that happens. But I am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak in this statement. I think that some of the previous rapporteurs have said that it is really problematic simply to discuss what is in the paper, because there is not much. There are a lot of obvious things about what we do, with whom we cooperate, but what do we want, and why do we want to do that? That is actually what I think should be the interesting thing to discuss. When I say what the alternative wants, it is, of course, about the sustainable development of the Arctic. This means sustainability on the social bottom line, on the environmental and climate bottom line and, of course, also on the economic bottom line. I think we have some major steps to take to look at how we can create the necessary investments, but also how we do it with respect and with the knowledge that already exists in the area, in other words that we involve the local population, the indigenous population, much more in the development that is to be done by the Arctic. The alternative is dreaming of a green world, and it is not necessarily the color green, but that we are sustainable all around, and that also applies to the Arctic, of course. We need to look at how we are continuously working to strengthen biodiversity, we need to look at how we also view sustainable development. When it is unfortunate about climate change, i.e. that the sea ice is melting, then we should not start drilling for oil and gas, and just as we should have drilling in the North Sea, we should not of course start new searches elsewhere in the world, because we must get rid of fossil fuels. But what is interesting also in this statement is a little bit about the fact that it is clear that we are hardly allowed to discuss the Commonwealth, but that is the only reason why we are discussing it. After all, Parliament's only role in relation to the Arctic is played because of the Commonwealth, which is why I think it is absolutely vital that we dare, even when we are talking about the Arctic, to talk about the role played by the Kingdom Community, including the role played by the three parties in the Kingdom Community. In fact, I think that one of the positive things on the part of the Prime Minister in the opening speech was that it was said that we should look at how to create involvement and insight into foreign and security policy, and I would really like to go further to say that I really think we should also open up to look at how we want to cooperate at all, precisely so that we can also play a role here on the part of Southern Denmark in relation to sustainable development in the Arctic, but also to look at how we are developing this work for the future. I hope, then, that we all want to have some sort of cooperation, but it will have to be on the basis of our time and our future and not on the basis of the past. That is why I think it is, of course, a fundamental task to look at how this involvement in foreign and security policy will be created, precisely when it comes to the Arctic. One of the important points in this statement was, of course, the whole relaxation, peace and security, and Mrs Aleqa Hammond referred to it in her rapporteur's speech on the armament that is happening right now, and I think that is deeply, deeply worrying. This applies both to what we see from Russia, but also to what we see in Norway, for example, and we should really go in there and try to push it with a friendly and loving smile, so that we can create that relaxation again, so that we do not start to see armament on armament at least that we do not participate in that armament, because it would be very, very unfortunate for the Arctic if that is the way forward. Then there was something I did a little bit about the statement about fishing. After all, it was positive to hear that agreement in principle has been reached, which ensures that fishing is not started in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean until there is sufficient scientific basis for it to take place in a sustainable manner, and I hope that we will then attach great importance to the sustainable nature of all fishing we do, not only in the Arctic, but also in Danish waters and in general. That must be our focus, that is, how we also work with the marine resources in a sustainable way. So I really think we should use this explanation to also dare to start a discussion about what our visions are for the cooperation we have, the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark between, in relation to the Arctic, and how we can support our planet, also with a sustainable Arctic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193254	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193257	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. That was a fine, concrete proposal: should we allow drilling for oil in the Arctic? One of the reasons why Britain will send troops to northern Norway next year and station them there is that they will be present to bid for when the ice melts and you can start looking for oil in the Arctic. It could be an internal discussion in the Kingdom community: should we have a fundamental opinion on this? I think, as Enhedslisten probably also thinks, that we should close that down. We're not looking for oil in the Arctic. We need to get away from oil in any case and to use the opportunities that open up can lead to natural disasters, and that is also completely wrong in terms of climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193355	I am sure that the Enhedslisten agrees, and that is the alternative at least. We know that 80%. of the oil resources, of fossil fuels we already know today, must remain underground, so of course we should not start looking for new ones. That is actually what I think should be our starting point in the work we should be doing for the Arctic as well: it should of course not be an oil hunt, because it will have really disastrous consequences for the environment in the Arctic, and when we pick up fossil fuels, we use it, burn it and emit CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193428	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193433	Thank you very much for your speech. The rapporteur came to say South Denmark, and I do not quite know whether it was a speech or a language flower, or what it is called in Danish. I actually thought we'd gotten rid of this word, because it's kind of running me down my back a little cold, and I've said that before. We don't usually say Norddanmark in Greenland, so it sounds like that, quite wrong. That's more of a comment. But the other one is also about the oil extraction in the Arctic. We have a discussion in Greenland about this with HFO, heavy fuel oil, where there is a wish from Inuit Ataqatigiit that we should not use heavy fuel oil, that it should be phased out, but that there may of course be some, what to say, concrete consideration, so it can take a few years before we get there. I also think that this is not necessarily the way to go in relation to oil extraction in the Arctic, and that is also what I hear from a great many players in Greenland: Perhaps we should focus on something that also takes account of the environment and climate and the people around the projects that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193542	First of all, I should like to express my regret: that expression was not intended to be used either. I actually meant the southern part of the kingdom, that is, of our kingdom community. And, of course, I understand the rapporteur's criticism of the use. The oil issue is just so difficult a question, because you can say that on the one hand we shouldn't discuss this at all if, for example, I should take my own words for face value because it's entirely a Greenlandic matter, and therefore we shouldn't discuss it here at all. However, on the other hand, I allow myself to get involved in discussions about climate and the extraction of fossil fuels throughout the world, which is why I will allow myself to do so when it comes to the Arctic and Greenland, for example. Because I think it is necessary to shout about this at all times and everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193639	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193641	Thank you very much. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we don't think it matters that you have an opinion on things, and we also sometimes have an opinion on how things are in Denmark, and then you can always discuss who has the decision-making power. But we can always have a political discussion at least. I know that the rapporteur and the alternative are also very concerned about climate change, just as Inuit Ataqatigiit is, and in particular this about stopping the consequences to the extent that we can do so. It may not be so interesting to discuss whether it is humanly created, but it is interesting to discuss whether we can do something about it, and the latest report from the UN Panel on Climate Change shows that we can. Inuit Ataqatigiit has wanted Greenland to join the Paris Agreement, but there is no political majority for that in Greenland. But in many ways I think Greenland has a special responsibility because we feel climate change so clearly. Could there be an area where you could work together across Greenland and Denmark in order to focus on climate change and the consequences they have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193743	In many ways it would actually be very symbolic too, I think, if Greenland were to accede to the Paris Agreement, precisely because what has very often been used when you have had to persuade world leaders to take the climate crisis seriously, and yes, we have stopped discussing whether it is man-made, indeed nature is in the Arctic and especially in Greenland. That's why I think it would be strong. That is also why, in debates with the questioner, I have asked a lot about what is happening in relation to the Paris Agreement. I think this would be an important step for the rest of the world too, because unfortunately we are seeing a development right now, when there are some countries that should have a great interest in still being included in the Paris Agreement, which has turned its back on it, such as the United States. There it would be strong to see a country like Greenland come and say: We are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193839	There's a new questioner. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193841	Greenland considers it extremely important to follow up on the UN's global goals. Greenland already stands and is self-sufficient, at least up to 75%. of our light and heat from clean energy, because it is based on hydropower. By 2030, Greenland will be completely free of all energy sources other than hydropower. Greenland is one of the world leaders, and whether you are part of the Paris Agreement or not, I think Greenland will take its share in that area. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur what he thinks about the Arctic region at the moment in terms of NATO's interests, the interests of the European Union, the interests of Arctic Five? Where does the rapporteur see the Kingdom in 20 years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009193940	First of all, I would like to stress once again that it is not really about whether you take your share of responsibility in Greenland in relation to the conversion to renewable energy, for example. I have just spoken for the symbolic strength of Greenland's accession to this agreement. Where do I see the Kingdom community moving? Well, I think that within the next seven years we will have a very new composition, because we will have to look at the time we are living in now, i.e. that we are equal countries that have joined together in a kingdom community where we can handle some things much wiser together than we can individually. I am not so interested in having to decide how and at what pace some will discuss independence or not. I don't want to get involved in that. I'm actually just gonna have to be available for it. But I would like to discuss how we work together. That is where I think it is important, particularly in the area of security and foreign policy, that we get it done in a much, much more equal way and that it will not be something like that where we always have to knock to be able to participate, but that it is an equal cooperation. Then, of course, there is the European Union, which is something special, because it is something that Denmark is involved in, and that is where we take care of the interests we do for Denmark. However, I think it is important that we start to see our way of working together, in other words that it is equal cooperation, and, in particular, in relation to foreign and security policy, it needs to be developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194104	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194106	In relation to the Arctic, we see that we very often have to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to get our vote through. Very often Greenland feels overlooked and not invited to the table when discussing issues related to Greenland; e.g. when Denmark talks to the United States about possibly airport construction or armament in the Arctic areas where Greenland is mentioned, but does not sit at the table. After all, Greenland is a major part of foreign policy in Denmark. What should be done to ensure that the equal is strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194145	Well, first of all, it has to be a matter of course that Greenland is involved when things are discussed about the Arctic, because it has to do with Greenland. In fact, we have proposed from the alternative that we look at the whole way of cooperation in the Kingdom Community. Should you have a government minister, then, a post held by the three countries on shifts who sit and make things work in cooperation? That could be a way to do it. But first of all, where it is obvious that when things concern Greenland, Greenland is of course at the table when we discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194219	Good. In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, and so we have come to hear the Foreign Minister now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194233	Thank you for that and thank you for an objective and constructive debate. Fortunately, I believe that the debate has confirmed the broad political support for the Arctic being and should continue to be a clear foreign policy priority. Therefore, the Arctic has also been chosen as one of the five areas of action in the government's foreign and security policy strategy, and the Arctic will also be a priority in the next strategy. The Kingdom's Arctic Strategy focuses on the strategic priorities for the development of the Arctic towards 2020. The vision of the Kingdom is to create the most optimal framework for the development of the region, both in terms of promoting sustainable economic development and protecting the environment, and in terms of understanding and respect for the lives and needs of local populations. However, sustainable economic development in the Arctic also presupposes that the Arctic remains an area of low tension and international cooperation. This was confirmed when, together with Vivian Motzfeldt, on 23 May this year, I hosted the tenth anniversary of the Ilulissat Declaration. Here, the Arctic coastal states reaffirmed their support for the declaration they signed in 2008 that dialogue and cooperation in the Arctic is the best way to solve the challenges of the future. At the same time, the other Arctic states and the representatives of the indigenous peoples were invited to underline their support for the principles of the Declaration. Climate change brings many challenges, but it means, for example: It is therefore very positive that the five coastal states to the Arctic High Sea as well as China, Japan, the EU, South Korea and Iceland signed an agreement on 3 October 2018 to ensure that no fishing takes place in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean until there is sufficient scientific basis for this to be done in a sustainable manner. The agreement is a good example of international cooperation in the Arctic. As another good example of cooperation in the Arctic and the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration, the Kingdom of Denmark and Canada set up a joint working group in May 2018 to look at the outstanding maritime law relations between the Kingdom and Canada. The working group shall, inter alia: Take a closer look at the maritime border crossing for Hans Island. The Arctic Council is and remains the main forum for cooperation in the Arctic. The work of the Arctic Council is aimed at the ministerial meeting in May 2019 under the Finnish Presidency. All three parts of the empire actively participate in the preparations for the ministerial meeting and seek to increase the focus on sustainable economic development in the Arctic. Among other things: We have done so through the organisation of an international high-level conference on the United Nations World Goal in the Arctic on 1 December last year. The Government has also initiated a report on corporate finance in the Arctic which is expected to contribute to the work of the Arctic Council and the Arctic Economic Council. These proactive initiatives are appreciated by the other Arctic states. An important area of action for the Arctic Council and for the Kingdom is the work to improve the communication infrastructure in the Arctic. Greenland holds the co-chair of the Arctic Council Task Force. Improved communication links are the key to addressing many of the challenges facing the Arctic in terms of climate change, environmental impacts, biodiversity, etc., but also to exploiting economic opportunities, among others. maritime routes and increased tourism that occur in these years. Improved communication over the huge distances in the Arctic is crucial for economic development and opens up completely new opportunities in the Arctic. The international interest in the Arctic is great, and it is growing. On the Danish side, we are working to strengthen the involvement of observer states such as China, India, Japan and South Korea in the work of the Arctic Council. The Arctic is therefore on the agenda when I meet with colleagues from these countries who are important partners in relation to research and the environment. As an Arctic coastal state, the Kingdom has a major influence on the development of the Arctic, and it is important that we continue to work to strengthen Arctic cooperation within the Kingdom. The Government therefore took the initiative last year for an Arctic Dialogue meeting to strengthen the regulatory cooperation between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Close and good cooperation is important in order to effectively promote the Kingdom's Arctic priorities in international Arctic cooperation. This year Greenland will host Arctic Dialogue taking place in Nuuk in December. That is what I wanted to conclude the debate with, at least in the first place, and thank you once again for a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194736	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the time being. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194743	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for listing the initiatives in progress and the good cooperation in the Arctic as a whole. We're talking about the Arctic now, and we can look at the Arctic from a helicopter perspective, i.e. see the pole from above. When we scan it through, we can see that there is a lot of activity going on in the Arctic area, also outside the 20% that includes the kingdom in terms of Greenland. It's moving on the Russian side. It's moving on the American side. It's moving with the Canadians. It is moving in Norway, where the British are also across and secure and protect Western interests. What is the Foreign Minister's view of what challenges can be seen in the near future and in the longer term, based on the great interest shown to the Arctic right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194842	Well, obviously there's a lot of activity. That is also what I have just said in my first answer. There is an increasing interest in the area, among others. because of the possibility of passing through, in general, also because many have an interest in the new business opportunities which may also arise. At the same time, of course, there are also security policy issues that arise, and the government is keeping an eye on this. I'm not gonna stand here and try to predict exactly how things look in five and ten years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194913	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194914	Now I'm not asking for a prediction of anything. I would now like to ask the Foreign Minister's own words about what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes can come up with challenges in terms of the increasing interest in the Arctic. Despite the reaffirmation of the Ilulissat Declaration, there is still an armament in progress that everyone can see. We see it in the form of the British going up to Nordnorge. We see it in the form of the Russians arming up in the Arctic. We also see American interest in dual use of airports in Greenland. What is the kingdom's challenge in the near future as regards the armament in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009194956-2	I have the impression that there is generally good will on the part of the nations with which we are working, in terms of driving the common goal that it should be a low-voltage area, and none, for example. Russia has an interest in drawing international crises into Arctic cooperation. In practice, therefore, it is my expectation that pragmatic cooperation between the Arctic States will continue in the Arctic Council and in the other Arctic fora, such as: Arctic Coast Guard Forum. So that's what I expect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195037	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195039	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. I would actually like to follow up on the question raised by my colleague Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale joined in his speech. It is the case that the Arctic Council has been established on the basis of a recommendation from the Committee of parliamentarians in the Arctic region, which we also call SCPAR on a daily basis, and while the Arctic Council represents the governments of the Arctic, we usually say the SCPAR people in the Arctic. I sit on the committee and present the Danish Parliament as a whole. We have had a congress in which several Members of Parliament have attended and where we have pointed out a large number of recommendations which are being put to the various governments of the eight Arctic countries. Is that something on which the Secretary of State has some comments? What are some priorities? And how are you going to live up to these recommendations in cooperation with Naalaksuisut, Greenland's government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195140	Everything that is being discussed we are trying to keep up with as well as possible, and the decisions that may be taken in different forums, we are also trying to keep up with and involve in the work that needs to be done in the future. I think that is the right thing to do. I do not have any concrete feedback on what may have been decided recently, whatever decisions have been taken on the table, but I think that we should always look positively and constructively at what is being contributed in various forums involved in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195219	Thank you. At least we will follow up on that by Inuit Ataqatigiits. Another issue that is important to us in Greenland is the issue of the EU Partnership Agreement with Greenland. What is on the table is a saving of some 165 million. kr., which will specifically mean that you do not have the money for the training measures that you have set in motion in Greenland. What will be done by Denmark in relation to safeguarding Greenland's interests in the future EU budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195253-2	The government has worked closely with Greenland in order to maintain that there will also be a Greenland grant in the EU budget in the future. I expect that in what is referred to and I have already indicated this to the Danish Parliament. The Commission's proposal envisages a sensible allocation for Greenland, not least in view of the budgetary challenges posed by Brexit and the new priorities of the European Union. Then it was asked whether the grant to Greenland lapses. The Commission's proposal envisages that the actual allocation for Greenland at current prices will represent a relative reduction compared to the current budget period, but at the same time that Greenland, as something new, will have access to EU support in the event of emergencies as well as to an interregional pool to finance Greenland's cooperation with other Arctic countries. And I think that is actually very positive. Overall, therefore, it is our view that this is a sensible proposal for Greenland, especially given the circumstances. We will, of course, continue to be in close dialogue with the Greenland authorities on this matter, and they also share the assessment that I have just made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195406	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195408	Thank you. It's about what I called the elephant in space. When should we react to an increasing Russian aggression, or at least an increasing Russian military presence in the Arctic? When should we react to this and thus lose the opportunity for the good cooperation that exists now? Or alternatively, how long do we have to keep quiet about this elephant in space in the various fora where the Arctic is being treated to avoid the conflict breaking out? That is the dilemma that everyone is facing. I know that the Minister cannot reply briefly to that, but perhaps the Minister could say a little about how he views this dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195501	After all, the government has heard it so that it was asked directly to Russia a two-track strategy in relation to Russia. We are tough and cash in terms of sanctions policy and, at the same time, we are seeking dialogue in those areas where there is a common interest in it being a low-voltage area. And it is still my impression that it is also in the interests of the Russians that we should not involve the general international conflicts and bring them into this area. That is what I can say at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195538	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. Thank you for that. ) The negotiations have been concluded and we are therefore moving on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195552	The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195615	Then we are in the field of health, and we shall be delighted with that for the next few hours. It is a mixed country trade that we have to deal with tonight, and this bill here is also quite a mixed country trade. It is no less than four laws that we need to make timely adjustments to improve security. It is the case that we do not have much polio left in the world. But the threat is still gone, and the first element of the legislation here is that we need to take better care of vaccines and the polio tribes around it. The WHO, like all Member States, has imposed this, and we must of course ensure this here in Denmark. That is why we need better safety and certification of the places and facilities where polio vaccines, polio viruses, are available here in Denmark. The second element of this proposal for a directive is in the veterinary field, in other words where animal welfare is being dealt with and where animals are being prescribed by veterinary surgeons. We have a challenge that very much medicine for animals comes in very large packs. This means that too much medicine is being put into circulation, and we know that can be harmful if that medicine goes wrong, for example in our environment. Where we hear it most frequently, both in relation to animals and also in relation to humans, is in relation to antibiotics and the development of resistance. What lies here in the bill is that a system can now be set up so that the large packs can actually be broken and divided into smaller portions, so that once the veterinarian has prescribed a certain dose, it can be delivered in exactly the size of the package. This means that pharmacies must break and maybe like rock and stick in the packs. That is very sensible, and one might ask whether we need to go further than what the draft law here opens up. It would have been very nice if, as a single country, it were possible to require manufacturers to supply the packs of medicines of different sizes so that they could always be supplied with exactly the package that the veterinarian has prescribed. The third element of the bill here is that we need to adjust something about the authority tasks of the Danish Medicines Agency and the economy and the fees associated with the tasks of the Danish Medicines Agency. As I said, it's a mixed country deal. It is right to do so, and the Social Democrats have no doubt that we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195919	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009195929	Thank you very much. The rapporteur before me from the Social Democratic Party has explained so well that these are the three things on which the draft law is concerned. We joined the World Health Organisation's Global Action Plan in 2015. In it we commit ourselves to safe places where polio vaccine is used and to establishing a biological risk management system. So, of course, we can agree with that. We must ensure that we are in and are doing the same thing as others, so that we can also be competitive in this way. Another part of the legislative proposal is the point about allowing people to share large packs of medicines for animals, so as to avoid the waste of medicines and perhaps also to ensure that we do not use so much antibiotics. Somehow I would like us to tighten up that part a little. Because it is voluntary whether veterinarians or pharmacists will do so. The question is whether we should not think about saying that this is something we should do, especially when it comes to antibiotics. After all, there is a difference between having antibiotics for a huge pig herd or the three little pigs that go home. And there is a difference between whether it is a small animal or a giant animal when you print antibiotics. I would even say that we should look at pack sizes when we prescribe medicines to people. There are some who get huge packs they can have at home for a whole year because they need one tablet a week. So I think we should try to work a little further on this proposal, which I actually think is a good one. I can vouch for that part of the bill, but I would like us to tighten up a little more. Because when it's voluntary, the vets can say no and the pharmacists say no. They may make more money selling the big package. Or what should they do about what remains in the pack? So I think I will put a few questions to the Minister during the course of the proceedings. A third part of the bill concerns the fact that the Danish Medicines Agency can charge fees to finance the directive on medical equipment that we adopted. We all remember the tragic incidents that occurred when we got some medical equipment from another European country that was not approved, and there were a lot of people, Danish patients, who suffered because they had not secured it. We must ensure this with this directive. This means that more hours of personnel are needed, which means that it costs something for the Danish Medicines Agency. So of course they have to pay. So we fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200222	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200230	We live in a world where globalisation and the fact that we are moving closer to each other are becoming clearer and clearer every day. The draft law we are discussing today contains a large number of different elements, and that is one of them. a good example of how health and health policy extends far beyond Denmark's borders. With the bill, we need to get past the WHO and the EU, because health and disease do not deal with national borders. Health and disease are both national and international challenges requiring cross-border solutions. This requires cooperation at international level. WHO cooperates worldwide to ensure health worldwide. There is cooperation, among other things. to eradicate the world's great and threatening diseases, where poliovirus is one of many examples. This is not an easy task. This requires, among other things, that: knowledge sharing, research and vaccines, if we are to achieve it. The WHO has agreed that all Member States that continue to work with poliovirus should introduce a biological risk management system and certify the facilities in the country that work with the virus. When the Center for Biosecurity and Biopreparedness is appointed as a national containment authority for poliovirus, we have a very good framework not only to help eradicate poliovirus, but also a framework that can help eradicate other vicious global diseases such as AIDS. measles. As I mentioned at the outset, the draft law also requires us to get past the European Union. Denmark is subject to European rules on medical devices. However, the current rules on medical devices are being replaced by new rules in the regulation on medical devices. This means that the Danish Medicines Agency is faced with a number of tasks for which it is not possible for them to charge fees. The Danish Medicines Agency has among other things: regulatory responsibility for the safety and marketing surveillance of medical devices, the authorisation and control and clinical examinations of medical devices, as well as the designation and control of notified bodies in Denmark. In order to be able to finance the performance of the tasks, the Board collects fees. In order to continue to carry out its work with control and guidance, we now secure with the bill the legal basis for the agency to charge the fees mentioned. The fact that the board can do its job creates security and benefits the industry, patients and users of medical equipment. In the more immediate area, the draft law allows veterinary surgeons and pharmacists to sell medicines to animals in measured quantities so that they do not receive as much medicine as is not needed. And with the new possibilities, we can ensure that less drugs are wasted. Last but not least, the draft law guarantees formal authorisation for the Health Data Protection Agency to pass on information from the Pharmaceutical Administration Register. This is a necessary correction in the law because the register is under the authority of the Danish Health Data Protection Agency. The information from the register shall be communicated to the competent authorities in order to produce relevant statistics in this field. As I said, the bill takes us around the world: from veterinary medicine in Denmark to the fight against polio virus at international level. The draft law is very much a consequence of our international obligations in international cooperation, which are so crucial for ensuring cross-border health and protecting both ourselves and others. The Left can support the bill as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200619	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200624	Thank you. This is a bill with five completely different elements. I've tried, but I couldn't figure out a connection. But there are points to the Left's health rapporteur to try to create such a framework around it, and I think that is very nice. Luckily for us, we can support all the parts. I would like to make a few comments on three of the elements of the draft law. The first is the part relating to polio virus. There is a chance that we can eradicate the polio virus. That would, of course, be a huge step forward for global public health. If anyone can remember back to the time when polio ravaged in Denmark, one knows that it is a disease that can have really major consequences in terms of child paralysis. And as part of the efforts to eradicate polio viruses, the WHO has adopted rules on how to contain the virus further, the places where it is handled, for example. When you produce vaccines, or when you do diagnostics. And we think that what the government is up to here is very sensible, namely that the Center for Biosecurity and Biocare will have that task in Denmark. Then there is a part of the bill which concerns the splitting of pharmaceutical packages for veterinary use, i.e. the fact that veterinarians and pharmacists have the opportunity to cut a package of pills, so that we do not have to hand over all the pills at once, but can only hand over what has actually been prescribed. And, of course, the aim is to ensure that no unnecessary amounts of medicines are used and that there are no medicines lying around which are not to be used and which are not being destroyed in the right way. We think that is very good too. This is particularly important for organic farmers, who must not have medicines that they do not need. And when I just told you about this bill at our group meeting yesterday, our food rapporteur was just so happy. Then I'll be happy too. The last part relates to fees for medical device tasks, and this has, among other things, been done. the EU has adopted a number of regulations which tighten up the rules on medical devices. And I can certainly remember a number of scandals where we saw that in other European countries there was extremely little control over the authorisation of medical devices, and that is why we think it is positive that there have been some stricter rules. It is, of course, perfectly legitimate that some money should also be able to be scratched into enforcing the rules in the Danish context. So, all in all, there are a number of improvements to the existing legislation to which we would like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200906	We thank you for that. Now it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009200913	Thank you. This bill is part of the government's efforts to eradicate the polio virus on a global scale. The bill envisages creating a legal basis for certification of the management of poliovirus by Danish authorities and companies in Denmark. It is important for the Liberal Alliance to ensure that the rules in the field of medicinal products and medical devices are always up-to-date and always take into account health and technological developments in these areas. The proposal provides for fees for supervision and control, and the Medico industry has expressed its support, but of course we must ensure that the fees are not higher than necessary. Another part of the proposal allows for the splitting of pharmaceutical packages for veterinary use, which is certainly a good development. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201015	Thank you. Then it might indicate that we're jumping to sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201026	Thank you. I have the pleasure of filling in for our health rapporteur tonight. We are also in favour of the proposal. At least three rather different elements have been well accounted for in the draft law, so I will not do so, but we support them in general. We find it interesting, when looking through the consultation answers, to read the scepticism of the Danish Pharmacy Association in relation to this possibility of voluntary division. This is one of the times when you have to look extra for whether it is simply because there will then be a small sale, that it is annoying or whether it is a real exclamation mark, in relation to whether it will change the industry's incentives to deliver smaller package sizes, as you write. We're probably mostly in the direction that it doesn't do so much that the Pharmacy Association has that exclamation mark, compared to that could be a problem. We are quite safe about it, but we may be more insecure about it being voluntary, as was also said. I think it was DF's rapporteur who said so. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201131	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201140	Thank you. We are discussing a draft law with many proposals in one proposal. And to begin with, just an appeal to the effect that the proposals are more widely shared. However, in the SF we agree that we must make a great effort to eradicate poliovirus at global level, and that is why we also support the government's proposal on the legal basis for certification of the safe management of poliovirus by Danish authorities and companies in Denmark. We are interested that the legal basis will also be used in the future to lay down rules on the safe handling of other biological substances which pose a threat to public health, in the light of WHO recommendations. SF wants vaccine production and polio diagnostics to continue under safe conditions in Denmark and thus follow the WHO's established rules. The proposal on the possibility of splitting medicinal products for veterinary use supports SF so that it is possible for veterinarians and pharmacists under certain conditions to open pharmaceutical packages and to take measured doses for veterinary use. In fact, it is important for us to reduce the waste of excess medicine, so that we also avoid the need to destroy excess medicine, and to avoid unenforced souls using the excess medicine on other animals that have not been diagnosed by a veterinarian, or selling it on the black market that matter. In relation to the proposal on the transmission of patient data, we believe that we should be sure that the proposal does not mean that personal data can be disclosed without the patient's consent. We need to be sure that we do not do that with this proposal. That is what I wanted to say. We are going to ask some questions about this, as confidentiality about sensitive personal information is important. In relation to the proposal to amend the Medical Devices Act, which provides for the possibility of charging fees for the performance of the Agency's regulatory tasks in order to comply with EU law, there is also a need here to clarify the consequences of the proposed fee. But I think we will vote in favour of it in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I can now welcome Mr. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party. This is the first time he has to stand on this platform, but it is completely safe, so just be calm. A special welcome to a debutante. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201431	Thank you, President. And thank you for the floor. As a substitute for Mette Abildgaard, I had my first working day in the Danish Parliament yesterday, so it is hard and hard that on the second day I have already to give my first rapporteur speech from the country's first platform. I've been looking forward to that a lot. The draft law we are now discussing deals with a number of things. It deals, among other things, with: control measures against poliovirus and other biological substances. It deals with the splitting of pharmaceutical packages for veterinary use and fees for certain medical device tasks. On the conservative side, we welcome all the elements of the proposal. We think it is quite sensible to introduce control measures against polio viruses, so that we follow the WHO's efforts to eradicate polio virus globally. By leaving the task of inspecting and certifying polio facilities in Denmark to an authority of the Ministry, we get a really good control. I am of a vintage that has seen several of my schoolmates affected by polio, so I know if anyone how painful it can be, and that is why we also hope that we can make a good step along the way to getting polio wiped out completely. With regard to the proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law and the Pharmacy Act, so that it will be possible for veterinarians and pharmacists to supply measured amounts of medicines to animal owners, so that a great deal should not be disposed of as waste, we see it as a very good measure. We note, however, that the Pharmacy Association's criticism of, among other things, the fact that there may be uncertainty about the quality of medicinal products if packaging is broken. But here we believe that the safety of medicinal products, among other things. must be kept up against the waste associated with the supply of excessive amounts of medicines. I fully agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that it would be much better if we could have some quantities that the individual could use so that we do not have to split this up. But that is something that we must continue to work on. It is so important to make it clear that the system of fragmentation is voluntary for both veterinarians, pharmacists and animal owners, and it is therefore possible to reject the fragmentation if you as an animal owner are not comfortable in treating your animal with fragmented medicines. The last proposal is the proposal to amend the Law on Medical Devices, which provides for the possibility of charging fees for a number of regulatory tasks of the Danish Medicines Agency, and which provides for the supervision and control of compliance with regulations on medical devices. We fully support that too. We fully support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201716	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund. That went quite well. There is just a bit of confusion here, because we have a good tradition in this House that when you have your first rapporteur's speech, you get the agenda with signatures on it and then even a small coin like a memory. So much congratulations from the whole team across all sorts of parties. That's how we can be in here, too. Then I think that the congratulations have been completed and we can welcome the Minister here on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009201754	Thank you. And thank you for the comments and the basically very positive reception of the bill. If we look at the proposed amendments to the Health Act, which aims to introduce control measures against polio viruses, this is, of course, very much about, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, that after a number of years the WHO has been committed to eradicating polio, also called child paralysis, worldwide, so that we are actually now close to achieving the goal. And the WHO, with the support of others, has. Denmark decided that Member States should set up a risk management system and certify those authorities and companies in the country that would then continue to deal with poliovirus. This is because a release of poliovirus after extinction, where children may no longer be vaccinated against polio, would pose a serious threat to public health. The bill is therefore intended to provide a legal basis for the Center for Biosecurity and Biopreservation to lay down detailed rules for the task of inspecting and certifying polio facilities in Denmark, so that the polio virus is also handled safely in the future, including in Denmark. at the polio laboratory at the SSI. In the longer term, the legal basis must also be used to lay down rules on the control of other dangerous biological substances, for example: as part of a global action against measles. Thank you, too, for the positive reception of the proposed amendments to the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical legislation, which aim to enable veterinarians and pharmacists in relevant situations to supply measured amounts of medicines to production animals and pets, i.e. to divide up medicines. The aim of the scheme is to minimise the waste of veterinary medicinal products, but easier access to broken-up medicinal products can potentially also help veterinary surgeons to prescribe preparations that are at least at risk of resistance development, rather than choosing a product that comes in the size pack that is now once suitable for the given treatment of the animal. And I fully agree with the rapporteurs who say that the optimal situation would of course be that we had much more smaller packs on the market, and that is also something that not only Denmark has a focus on, but on which we in the European Union have a common focus. The proposal lays down a framework for the fragmentation activities to ensure that the responsible supply of medicinal products for veterinary use is observed and that the safety of medicinal products and animal and public health considerations are also balanced. I would, of course, be happy to respond to the questions that were also specific to this point in the legislative proposal, in order to ensure that the rapporteurs have the necessary information in this area, including the relationship that has existed with the regulation on veterinary medicinal products and the negotiations that have taken place within the European Union. As several of the rapporteurs have also said, the proposal to amend the Law on Medical Devices aims primarily to establish the legal basis for the Danish Medicines Agency to charge fees for the performance of the Danish Medicines Agency's regulatory tasks with the EU rules on medical devices, including the implementation of the regulations on medical devices. And, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, we must also say that it is necessary to ensure that there is sufficient control in this area. This is also about the changes that are proposed that the Danish Medicines Agency may charge fees for the processing by the Danish Agency of applications for export certificates and for new tasks of supervision and control of importers and distributors, so that we also ensure that they comply with the EU rules on medical devices resulting from the regulations. The change of law thus supports the goal of a strong professional authority responsible for medical devices, but also the goal of a strong life science sector in Denmark, and where we just have a focus on patient safety in relation to the control there is. The SF's rapporteur asked a specific question in relation to the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register, where one consultation party, like this one, has used this opportunity to start a discussion about the bill. That is why I just need to say from the platform that the substantive rules are not being changed. After all, the rules provide for the possibility of transmission to other managing authorities for the purpose of compiling statistics for the general planning of health care tasks. And when it's part of this bill, it's simply because the task that was placed back in 2011 in the Danish Agency for Medicinal Products, after the reorganisation that has been done by the agencies, is today in authority within the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, which of course handles data. And that is why it is just an opportunity to say that there is no material change, but when we have the bill open, we also think it is essential, as is making the impact correction, which also relates to who is the data processing authority today. It's not in this area of the Danish Medicines Agency, it's the Danish Health Data Protection Agency. I would, of course, be happy to reply to this in writing to the SF rapporteur, but given the answer to the hearing, I also thought it appropriate to reply to this at first reading. I will, of course, answer all the questions that the committee may have and hope for good committee consideration along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009202305	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009202325	We are opening the negotiations, and we are opening the negotiations with Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009202340	Thank you for that, President. Fortunately, we have started an experimental scheme in Denmark around medical cannabis. It was a hard birth, but I actually think it seems that we have got off to a good start because we in the Danish Parliament have listened to a great many patients who have said that it was necessary to gain some more experience with medical cannabis for some particular disease groups. But now we have a legislative proposal here again shortly after we have actually got the system up and running, because it turns out that we need to make some adjustments. These are adjustments that we Social Democrats support. Among other things: It has emerged in connection with the possibility that medical cannabis can also be produced in Denmark, i.e. cannabis products and plants, where we can also hope that it will be a success in relation to exports to other countries, and it is the first element of the legislation and the changes here that one would like to have the opportunity to export the medical cannabis, i.e. the cannabis plants, in some larger portions, what is called bulk. We think that's fine. It is not, of course, a question of non-compliance with safety, no, and we must understand this: just as far as production and export are concerned, there are very strict safety requirements. The second element is that it has been shown that we find it difficult to get sufficient medical cannabis into the Danish market. On the one hand, we have not got production up in Denmark yet, but it also turns out that it is difficult to get a medical cannabis that has been grown where pesticides are not used. Therefore, it is now necessary to grant a derogation within a short period of time so that medical cannabis can be brought in, which has not therefore had the same fine requirements for production methods without pesticides as we have put in Denmark. We think that is right too, and it is a matter of a short period of time. It is also suggested in this draft law that in relation to the production of cannabis that is to take place in Denmark, contracts can be made. It will help those who have to produce it in terms of their planning and their organisation of production. We think that's okay. Then there is one point where I have a tiny bit of wormwood to sprinkle in the cup, and that is the subsidy scheme that has now been put in place in relation to those who need medical cannabis. We found it very difficult to put it in place politically throughout the broad circle, which supports the experimental system of medical cannabis, and it was because it was so unfortunate that, although we could agree on what a subsidy scheme should be, we did not have any free money, funds, crowns, to do well with. That is why it has now been settled by the fact that the government, together with the Danish People's Party in the context of the financial negotiations, has set aside some money, which is now being translated into a grant which means that there will be 50 per cent. subsidies with retroactive effect from 1 January and that is 50 per cent. within the framework and the expenditure which may be less than DKr 20,000. a year. We can only thank you for the fact that this arrangement fell into place, but I think it is a pity, and I think it hampers our political work, that in a field as large as health, where the parties could agree on something, we should cut a heel and cut a toe and weaken other arrangements in order to find money. I do not think that our setup and our democracy will be able to take place here as we would like. The last topic in the bill here is the introduction of a legal basis to charge fees for the activities of the Danish Medicines Agency in this particular area, which deals with the experimental scheme for medical cannabis. So there are five elements, and we support the proposal, and it is an experimental scheme which has certainly received many comments along the way. But we need to make the adjustments now because we agree politically that we want this to work. And that is why, of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009202814	We thank the rapporteur and the next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009202822	Who would have thought in 2015 that today we would be talking about cannabis hemp grown in Denmark, about exports and pesticides. In 2015, when the alternative came up with a motion for a resolution that we should have cannabis for medical use, it was a very narrow majority that voted yes, and that was the reason why we are here today. We sometimes get some cuts, as the previous rapporteur said. Some think it's going too slowly; some think it shouldn't be there, especially the doctors, but when we look at the latest figures provided by the Danish Health Service, it looks really good. Is it over 800 who have been prescribed today? And it's over 200 doctors who are now helping to try it. And it did just that we in the Danish People's Party could not keep waiting for us to agree, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said. We wouldn't steal a little from one vaccine and something from another and drop some campaigns here and there. So fortunately, the Danish People's Party had a pool on the Finance Act last year, where we decided to drop money, so that it was not only those who had money that could afford it. And we made an agreement with the Minister of Health that, from September this year, if you're dying, you're terminal, you can get it by 100 percent. subsidies immediately. Because there you can't wait to get it back, just as the others can, on January 1, 2019. This is a step further, because the Minister for Health also came as a minister and wanted to help grow it. Of course, there must also be a minister who wants to do this, so I would like to thank the Minister for Health for that. In the money we got set off together, it was also ensured that we get some more manpower, because there are a lot of people who want to grow it, and the few employees who have to sit and check and make sure that everything is done properly and that it is the right goods can sometimes have difficulty keeping up. So it is ensured that we will at least get paid off. That was a little over 80 million. kr. that was set aside last year for this experimental scheme. Of course, once you've grown it at home, you'd like to be able to export it, make money on it, and we think that's really good. I also think it is good that we can have it produced in Denmark, and in particular that we can have it without pesticides as the agreement stands. We also agree that until we get the Danish cannabis out to the pharmacies, we must take what we can get from Canada to ensure that there are different preparations, precisely because we have to have some competition so that we can have this price pressed down. So we're really glad that the minister has brought this bill. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen has gone through most of it, and I thought I'd come with some background. We welcome the fact that we have come so far that we can actually see that it makes a difference. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009203211	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009203222	It is almost 1 year ago that we were gathered here in the Parliamentary Chamber to deal first with the bill that became the law on experimental medical cannabis etc. It has been a turbulent time for doctors, for patients and for us politicians, but now we are here today dealing with a bill to adjust and optimise the very same law, and the bill contains five main points. When we adopted the law on the experimental system, we opened up a completely new way of thinking about treatment with all that that entails. And together we have moved down the path where we have not been before legislatively. This has given us new opportunities for those patient groups who, for one reason or another, cannot benefit from the usual methods of treatment or medicine, and it has also given us a new basis of experience, which we now take stock of and optimise the legislative framework. Because when you decide something new and you sail out of muddy waters and into something that can rightly be described as new waters, it is important to have the passer pointed and the course ruler ready so that the course can be set when needed. For one is ship to lead, something else is chart to understand. When we launched the experimental scheme, I simply do not think that many of us had any idea whatsoever that patients would be asking for a wider product range, if I may say so, just as we did not have a look at all export possibilities. Now we are opening up the export of cannabisbulk, which I learned to say when I visited one of the producers here last week, i.e. a less processed cannabis product. This is a great wish among Danish producers of cannabis. From the left we see it as a good opportunity to secure a larger market for Danish-produced cannabis. In Denmark we produce pesticide-free cannabis, a so-called organic cannabis, and that is a requirement, but that is not the case everywhere in the world. As I mentioned, there is a high demand for cannabis products and the demand for ecocannabis imports is bound to ease. Such a decision is a dilemma. For cannabis grown with pesticides is not optimal, but neither is the alternative. And it is important to emphasise that patient safety is a priority and that there will be no free play for imports. Specific requirements are laid down as to which pesticides can be used and in what quantities, and the expectation is that the initiative will only work for a shorter period. We in the Left are aware of the answers to the hearings, including the critical ones which deal with them. distortion of competition. In addition to changing the rules governing imports, as I have already mentioned, we will also open up the possibility of producers putting activities in contract. The scheme will provide more opportunities to organise production in a more flexible and appropriate way as well as for a larger product range. When we adopted the experimental scheme, there was a challenge in the bag: the price of cannabis products is relatively high. Everyone agreed that the experimental scheme had to be launched, but unfortunately there was little political will to secure patients' grants for the purchase of cannabis products • actually disappointing, considering how eager many have been to sune themselves. Back in March, the government and the Danish People's Party agreed on a subsidy scheme for patients who receive medical cannabis from the doctor. And I am incredibly pleased that we in the Left, together with the Conservative, Liberal Alliance and in particular the Danish People's Party, are now ensuring that the scheme does not get a social battle side and push patients onto the criminal black market because prices are too high. The grant will take effect from January 2019 and will be granted retroactively. In this way patients receive supplements, including those who have been prescribed the medicine in 2018. It's all missing! The fifth element of the draft law is the financing of the increased administration brought with it by the pilot scheme. The great interest in the scheme means that the Danish Medicines Agency has had more work in managing the scheme than there have been resources for. And in order to maintain a strong pharmaceutical administration for the benefit of patient safety, it is now being opened up that the Danish Medicines Agency may charge fees for the administration of the system. With the initiatives and changes mentioned here, we in the Left believe that we have now set the course so that we can safely steer ahead and accommodate both manufacturers and patients with an exciting trial scheme for the printing of medical cannabis. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009203738	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009203743	Thank you. Last year, when the Danish Parliament dealt with the first draft law on the experimental system of medical cannabis, we supported the proposal by Enhedslisten. We did so because we know that there were already many patients who messed with cannabis that they obtained illegally and without having an exact knowledge of the effect. At the same time, we wanted to help those patients not to be criminalised, but to have better access to safer products. This bill envisages a number of amendments to the law on experimental medical cannabis, etc., and we can support four out of the five proposals that are being proposed here. It is about the possibility of exporting Danish-grown cannabis, the possibility of being able to place the production of cannabis products in contract • both proposals will strengthen the Danish producers and we can also support the proposal for a special grant scheme for medical cannabis. It was already part of the debate in this Chamber last year, since there were already many of the consultation parties who pointed out that it would be a huge problem for this experimental scheme, that it was not a grant and that it would therefore be very expensive for patients who would be able to access it. That is why, of course, we are pleased that there will now be some subsidy, although for many patients it will still be quite expensive. However, we cannot support the part of the proposal which deals with the fact that medical cannabis grown in countries other than Denmark can be grown with pesticides. And we cannot do that for the sake of patient safety. We also note that there are a number of organisations, not only those for patients, but also other health professional organisations, which point out that this may be risky for patient safety. It is important that there are no pesticide residues in the medical cannabis available here in Denmark. Today, as several people have said, what is already being grown without pesticides in Denmark, because that is a requirement. That is a good thing, and it is an important vision. As far as I can understand from the consultation answers, but of course that is one of the things we would like to follow up, it is also grown pesticide-free in the Netherlands, it writes, for example. CiBiD Group, and Medican A/S, writes that today there are two Dutch and three Canadian products on the market, which are also pesticide-free. So there is also the possibility, apparently, of importing pesticide-free products. We believe that it is very important what demands we make on the development of production that is actually taking place, and there is also a great risk, as several of the Danish producers point out in the hearings, that they are experiencing very unfair competition, where they simply cannot keep up with the price at which they can produce it if they are allowed to produce pesticides abroad. Many of the interested parties who criticise this part say that at least a sunset clause could be introduced, but it would be better than being open right now, and it is up to the Minister alone to do so. But we would very much like to table an amendment to delete this part of the bill. If it is adopted, we can easily support the rest of the legislative proposal. Alternatively, we can split the draft law into two, which could also enable us to support the many good changes to the trial scheme with medical cannabis that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204140	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204145	Thank you. In the Left, we fully share the point of departure that pesticides are not optimal. We have also taken note of the fact that, among other things, we have taken note. in Canada produces part of the cannabis with some special pesticides. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the alternative is not to get cannabis in relation to the demand that is, of course, not optimal. So I just want to ask Enhedslisten: I understand how you will vote against the bill here if it is not shared. What alternative is there if it is not possible to get the cannabis organic that the market is looking for, i.e. the patients out there, the arthritis patients and the cancer patients and the sclerosis patients, will Enhedslisten recommend the patient group?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204242	I think that you gamble with the safety of patients when you open up to produce with pesticides. As I have said, there is also a risk that the pesticide-free production, the Danish, will be out of line or will be very, very difficult, and then the vision which otherwise formed the basis of the pesticide-free medical cannabis test system will fade into the horizon, and I think that would be incredibly regrettable. I must admit that I am not an expert either on Dutch or Canadian or, for that matter, on Israeli products, but I note that several of the producers who are in Denmark point out that there are also pesticide-free products abroad, that is, there is the possibility of importing pesticide-free products, and that is why I think we can solve the problem that I admit there. It takes some time to get the products we would like when, in addition to making legislation that makes it possible, we also need to run a production process. But I think that we are getting further away from the vision of a pesticide-free medical cannabis if we open up to foreign producers in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204356	Thank you. It was a long talk about nothing, because what I really asked Enhedslisten's rapporteur was: What alternative would Enhedslisten recommend to patients who benefit from medical cannabis, i.e. sclerosis patients, cancer patients, arthritis patients and other patient groups, if we cannot import enough cannabis? The idea of the bill here is, in fact, that we should only import cannabis with special pesticides until Danish production is at a lap height. But the Enhedslisten rapporteur does not answer my question: what alternative will be offered?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204437	I think it is because the rapporteur and I in the Left look differently at what the consequences will be of opening up the import of pesticides into cannabis. I believe that it will take us further away from the fact that Danish production can deliver what we need, simply because production is at risk of being out-dated, has unfair opportunities to compete with countries that are allowed to produce pesticides. In addition, I do not think it has been said that there is in fact any possibility of importing pesticide-free products. I admit that it may well be that we cannot solve the whole problem now, but I think it is important to hold on to patient safety rather than to run along ways where we risk gambling with patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204521	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204523	Thank you. I am also a little incomprehensible about saying that you want a sunset clause. After all, it is part of the bill that it should apply approximately 12 months, or until Danish production makes the market. Isn't that the same as a sunset clause? It's not forever that you take these products. So I am surprised that the Enhedslisten does not see that it has actually been taken into account. Then I would like to know whether the health rapporteur has also followed us from the outset when we were told how many patients would like a prescription for it. It was hard to catch up with everything from Holland because they couldn't sell what they wanted. That's why we needed someone else to put it in place. It was actually really hard to find some countries we could buy it from. So it's not just. I mean, a lot of gunpowder has been spent on this. I will then also complete it by saying that if the patient cannot find medicinal cannabis free of pesticides in the pharmacy, where will he buy it, and what can he guarantee it contains?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204631	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204632	I am not saying that I think the optimal solution is a sunset clause. I pointed out that several consultation answers say that at least that could be done. There is no sunset clause here. There is an authorisation for the Minister to make a decision, something else that the Danish People's Party tends to be critical of. I would prefer that the part went out completely, but I say that a sunset clause is better than just authorising the Minister. So I hope I made that clear in relation to that part of the rapporteur's question. Well, I fully understand that it is not just to solve this problem, but I also do not think that it is just that we do not know what it will mean for patients' safety to get pesticides products in, and that is why there are a large number of both patient organisations and health professionals who are warning against this part of the bill. So I do not think this is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204732	Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204733	That's not the way we're going. In other words, the rapporteur reminds us of the people who say: patients can be harmed by cannabis. Where will Mrs Hansen go if a prescription cannot be prescribed? How do we know what is being bought on the black market by pesticide-free cannabis? Is it better than the 12 months that the Minister has promised to go? For this is the agreement of the Danish People's Party with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204800	No, I do not think it is better to go on the black market, and we have said this all the way through when we were the very first party here in the Folketing to make a proposal to allow medical cannabis. So the accusation that we from the Enhedslisten should say that you shouldn't be allowed to use medical cannabis at all, I think is quite beside it. However, I think it is quite important that, when we make a system which we are behind politically, we also ensure that the products to which we have access are in order patient safety and, in my opinion, we do not do so if we allow pesticides in production.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204830	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204832	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I have expressed the same irritation or scepticism that we must now have a short period of time in which we accept that medical cannabis has been produced for the Danish market with pesticides. But in the Social Democratic Party we understand that it has been done out of need, and that is where I do not think Mrs Stine Brix is expressing an understanding that we have been put into a situation which may have arisen out of need. Of necessity we understand that we can have patients who are prescribed medical cannabis, but if we do not open up, we can face the situation that we cannot obtain the medical cannabis they need. There I would like to hear Mrs Stine Brix if there is no understanding of that. Because we're pushing for this to be as short a period as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009204929	Yes, and I think I have already expressed that understanding, but I would like to express it again. I think, on the other hand, that I lack an understanding the other way around that there is a risk of allowing imports of products with pesticides, namely the risk that we will get further away from the vision of a pesticide-free market in Denmark, because there is unfair competition in it. And there is also a risk to the safety of patients. That is why I think it is the wrong way to go. We simply cannot be sure that we can actually solve the problem in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205007	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205007-2	I think that we are politically in complete agreement that we should set very high standards in Denmark in this area. We have included this in the criteria and framework for Danish production. We're not gonna change them at all. There we are working towards the goal of producing pesticide-free products, and on the day production is up, we all hope that it will be a great success for patients and for safety. I would like to have the world's best medical cannabis products produced in Denmark. So I do not understand why the rapporteur is saying that this could be a slippery slope.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205049	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205050	That is why there are a large number of Danish producers who are very critical of this part of the bill. You say that it will give unfair competition when other conditions apply to foreign producers who are allowed to produce pesticides. After all, it risks making it more difficult for Danish producers to get to work and to deliver. In fact, I believe that there is a risk of getting further away from the vision of a pesticide-free market in Denmark. In addition, the Social Democrat rapporteur failed to address the problem raised by many quarters that it could pose a risk to patient safety. I think that is a pity, but that does not mean that it is easy. I just think it's the wrong way to go, and I don't think it brings us closer to that vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205135	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205142	I think it is absolutely fantastic that we got the medical cannabis going in Denmark. It was a rough birth, but then baby came and baby grows. Now we are making some changes that make the scheme even stronger and that must ensure that baby can grow and become big and strong. The proposal is intended to ensure fair conditions of competition for Danish producers of medical cannabis. We must make demands on foreign producers, which means that foreign producers are not placed better on the Danish market than Danish producers. And we must, of course, ensure legislation that allows Danish producers to sell their products internationally. At the same time, the proposal will ensure that medical cannabis supplements are provided. In an ideal world you wouldn't give medication because the medical evidence isn't strong enough, but it's no good that we continue to send those patients who experience getting better using cannabis into the arms of criminals. With the extremely high demands on the production of medical cannabis, prices are driven up to a level where it is significantly cheaper to go to criminals. That is why we believe that subsidies are needed. In the long term, we can hope that prices can be reduced to a level where subsidies are not necessary. Then it is great to experience how Danish producers struggle to become Europe's largest; to experience their enthusiasm, their professionalism and see how far the Danish producers have already reached is fantastic. And I look forward to seeing a big export adventure and many good Danish products on the Danish market to great pleasure for Danish patients. I must say to the Enhedslisten that I do not understand the objections raised by Enhedslisten. Nor do I think it is very optimal to import products with pesticides, nor is it for Danish producers, but it is quite different. But what we are doing here is ensuring that Danish patients can get these products until the Danish market is ready with some products without pesticides. And the intention is to do it to the maximum. should last 15 months, so when the Danish producers are ready, you should no longer be able to import products with pesticides. So this sunset clause thing isn't very relevant in this context, where there's an agreement in 15 months. For the gambling thing with the patients: I don't quite understand that either. Does Enhedslisten think that in the United States and Canada, all the many patients who have had these products for many years have gambled? I can't really relate to that. I'll tell you what. I think it's great that we've got Danish cannabis production going and that we can offer Danish patients this solution. And I welcome the change that is now coming here so that we can offer a subsidy. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205526	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205532	It's an exciting debate to be in, not least when you're from the Alternative. I think this is a very good example of what we can do in politics if we dare go in and try something. So, the experimental scheme on medical cannabis, which has been mentioned several times this evening, I think had been a foreign country for many not too many years ago and even to take the word cannabis in his mouth as a politician. I'm not an expert on this either, I'll be quick to say. But I would like to say that what we see tonight is that we are going in and improving the agreement that was made at the time, whether an experimental scheme is just gratifying. That's what you do when you try something. You go in and then you find out what works and what you need to improve, and then you find out that the need is even greater than you would have dared to hope for. And therefore it is in every way very, very happy, in the alternative, that we stand together to improve the conditions for those who would like to use medical cannabis in Denmark. Having said that, apart from saying that we support the whole proposal and appreciate the agreement that the Danish People's Party and the government have made, where there are subsidies, until it is sustainable in itself, because the prices are so high that I can really understand Mrs Stine Brix when she says that products with pesticides from abroad can be a slippery path. On the other hand, I do not think there is much to the other parties who then criticise that scepticism, because that is just around the corner. Now I am not the rapporteur in this area, but we will at least put forward proposals from the Alternative in the committee's work whether it becomes a sunset clause or a declaration of intent that it will be so strong that it is simply known that the Minister has the same desire to do so as briefly as possible that products containing pesticides must be imported into Denmark. So in the alternative, we are very positive about being pragmatic on this point, because patients must have access to what we have promised. Having said that, I think that one could also look at whether the conditions of competition for Danish producers, who must keep on the path of virtue in relation to not using pesticides, are distorted. Could it be said that there should be primacy over them? I am simply not an expert in this area, so I cannot say whether it is criminal against something. But until the Danish products without pesticides are used, there could be some kind of node that did not use the foreign imported. We'll have to look into that. But as a starting point, we are very positive. And what if we dared to try a little more in Danish politics? I am quite sure that we should probably keep each other in our ears so that it didn't get out of hand, but actually kept being really reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205809	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205817	Thank you. In SF we have been involved in deciding medical cannabis in the health system, but also the possibility of a Danish production and export of cannabisbulk. We are certainly also interested in making the possibility for users of medical cannabis better, but of course we should not compromise on quality. Of course, cannabis products grown in Denmark or imported into the country must also be monitored and we support the proposal for a subsidy scheme for cannabis products covered by the experimental scheme. We also support the proposal to charge fees for the Danish Medicines Agency's activities as long as it is an authorisation for the cultivation and handling of cannabis in order to develop cannabis for medical use and in the hope that more permits for the cultivation of medical cannabis in Denmark will be issued in the future. It is our impression that the development in relation to production is going very fast, and despite the fact that I recognise that the exception for non-organic cannabis is about being able to supply enough cannabis products, I also think that there might be a need for a renewed status of the possibility of being able to buy organic and Danish-produced cannabis for treatment. So I would ask that we discuss this in committee, but the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205948	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009205959	In the legislative proposal that we are now going to deal with, there are five main points, all of which are open to Conservatives. Everyone knows that we Conservatives are skeptical when talking about cannabis and other drugs. However, when it comes to the medical cannabis trial system, where patients have been able to be treated with medical cannabis prescribed by a doctor since 1 January 2018, we are actually pleased that the scheme has been a great success and that patients and doctors are increasingly using the scheme. Today, Danish producers have the opportunity to develop and grow clean and standardised cannabis suitable for medical use, and they can also export Danish cultivated cannabis products and cannabis intermediate products. The bill now extends this export option to cannabisbulk - I call it bulk pronounced in Danish, but it may well be that some who speak English call it bulk pronounced in English, which has been a wish of the Danish manufacturers of medical cannabis. That seems to us to be a natural extension from the conservative point of view. The talk about using pesticides can also make it run cold off the back of a conservative, so here I am a little in line with Stine Brix, but also little. Because when Conservatives nevertheless support relaxing the requirement for imported cannabis products to be grown without the use of pesticides, it is mainly for reasons of security of supply. We look forward to the product committee being sufficiently large in 15 months' time and that the Minister for Health can then abolish the possibility of using pesticides in the cultivation of imported cannabis products. And it is important to make it clear that it is not pesticides that we need in the Danish-produced products that it is only when we import foreign products. As such, we have no comment to make on the possibility of interpreting activities under contract, except to ensure that different products can be produced for the benefit of patients. We also fully support the special subsidy scheme to provide patients with as wide a product range as possible and ensure that as many relevant patients as possible benefit from the trial scheme. Since it has been shown that the interest in medical cannabis has been greater than anticipated, this has led to increased administration in the Danish Medicines Agency, which is why we can of course support the fact that it is possible to lay down rules on the collection of fees for the work of the Danish Medicines Agency. The other points add and adjust the definitions of the law and are of a more technical nature, to which we have no comment. Conservatives fully support the overall bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009210246	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009210300	Thank you for your comments on the bill. After all, since the end of the year, the experimental scheme has helped, the latest figures say 833 patients to a hopefully better life with fewer pains and that in a legal and secure way. So I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have said that it was good that we took joint initiative on the experimental scheme and that it is also good that along the way we have taken a political dialogue on how we can improve how we can ensure that the experimental scheme also meets our wishes. I would also like to say that 833 patients and more than 200 doctors who have prescribed at the end of August are, in fact, more than was immediately expected, because when the first negotiations were going on, the expectation was that it would include about 500 patients within the first year, and we are well above that. I also sometimes think, when the debate is running, that one might be a little surprised that some people like to talk about that, uh, it's a field where there's a lot of things we don't know. That is absolutely correct, and that is why we have put in place an experimental system which also includes research and a number of initiatives. But the difference between people who received a prescription for medical cannabis, who did not have a disease and did not receive any other medication, I do not recognize. For many of the patients I have met who have entered the medical cannabis trial scheme, people who have already received several other medicines and who also have side effects in some areas of the medicines they have received over time and who, for many, have not received the pain relief required from conventional drugs. That is why I think it is important, when we talk about experimental schemes, that we also stick to the fact that we are talking about sick people who very much need us to take new paths politically and who do not want to be criminalised just because they like to have a tolerable life and because they experience that medical cannabis gives them the relief that is needed. That is why the experimental scheme for me and the government is also about the dignity, dignity of patients, while at the same time it is about securing new professional knowledge and results that can benefit people who live with their disease. When I say that, it is because in some of the hearings you fall back a little to the same discussion we have had all the way through, where you say that this is quite the wrong way to go. I think it is important that, with the experimental scheme, we open up a new form of treatment, in which we also continuously build up experiences that can support better treatment and that we also provide the framework for it and that we gain knowledge. This bill is then a further development of the experimental system as well as the cultivation system. It contains five major points which should help to optimise the trial scheme even more for the benefit of patients, among others. by providing both a wider range of available cannabis products and by providing patients with supplements to cannabis products. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for continuing to lift this case and also prioritizing it in the finance negotiations and subsequently in the pool that Dansk Folkeparti got set off on the Finance Act. I therefore agree with the rapporteurs who point out that it is, of course, a dilemma when we now open up to accept products for a shorter period, i.e. medical cannabis produced in other countries, among others. Canada, the United States, which does not meet the same standards as we are setting. Of course it is difficult to move that way, but if it had only been a question of when we have a Danish cannabis cultivation, I understand the desire to just wait. However, I also believe that we have a patient concern, that is to say patient groups, which also point out in the consultation answers that it is important that there is a proper committee, because in this way it is also a question of ensuring that those who live with their diseases and who want to be part of the trial system and receive medical cannabis also see that there is an adequate selection of products in the trial system and that there is also competition between products, which means that pricing in the Danish trial system also finds a level so that it does not become socially distorted. We also want to expand the possibilities of exporting Danish-grown cannabis so that it will be possible to export cannabisbulk, and we also suggest that it should be possible to contract the production of cannabis products. We do so because we believe that it will help strengthen and professionalise the Danish production of medical cannabis and ultimately also help to support the clinical research that will result from the development of medical cannabis, and provide patients with better preparations, which we have more knowledge of, and which can help to benefit. The proposed changes should also help to ensure sensible and flexible framework conditions for Danish processing and production of medical cannabis, both for the Danish experimental scheme and for export. It is important to say that when some of the consultation answers, as Enhedslisten also states, say whether this is not a distortion of competition, then I do not think that this is a distortion of competition, because what we have clearly said on the Danish side all the way through is that a pesticide-free, organically grown medical cannabis is our competitive advantage, also in a global market, because ultimately it is about patient safety, about product selection, about credibility, but it is also about building such a strong production that Danish producers will also be able to manage on the world market. Therefore, it is also my ambition and the ambition of the government to make Denmark a pioneer both in the development and research of medical cannabis for the benefit of patients who do not experience the desired effect of the conventional conventional treatment they receive, and I think that the experimental scheme gives us a unique opportunity to do so. I would also very much like to thank you for the great support that has been given to the experimental scheme and to the Danish People's Party for the fact that we are also expanding with a subsidy scheme, but basically also for the reception that the bill will receive in this Chamber. Because one might say that reception could also have been: why do you already change it now, less than a year after we have started? And there I really think it is positive to see the spirit that has also rested on the negotiations, namely that we know that we are entering new paths. And when you enter new paths, you also have to adjust and correct as you get new knowledge and you find that we can actually make the experimental scheme even better for the benefit of Danish patients and also for the benefit of Danish producers who have now embarked on the production of medical cannabis. I am, of course, at the disposal of the questions that have been raised today and which the committee will be putting forward, and I hope that the committee will be given proper consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009210942	I do not think there were any brief comments, so thank the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009211001	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009211017	Thank you, President. Then we have another bill, which is a collection of a lot of different things, but this time only three different things. But let me say three very important things, from a socialist point of view. The first element is about the very skilled and dedicated staff who work in all of the country's ambulances and who are responsible for a very significant part of the prehospital efforts in Denmark. The ambulance training will be changed from 1 January and there will be significant changes. What we saw in the legislation here is that an authorisation system will be incorporated, as we know from all other health professionals. Although ambulance personnel are not health education but vocational training, they are now granted a licence which protects their title, whether in future they become an ambulance worker, an ambulance worker with special skills or a paramedic. We are committed to obtaining a licence, but it also gives recognition, and it is quite right that we should do so now. It has been a long time in the process and we very much welcome that element from the Socialist side. The next element is the supply of medicines. It is a question of giving authorization to pharmacists in the future. It is a new feature that you want to build in relation to our pharmacies and our pharmacy branches. We hear from time to time, yes, not to say quite frequently, that many patients come to the pharmacy and have not had their prescription renewed, although they have been diagnosed with a disease and their own doctor has prescribed medication for them. However, citizens have not been given a new prescription, and there can be many reasons for this. We are also told that patients are going to the guard doctor and are putting a strain on our guard doctor's system to get a new medical prescription, a new prescription. With this, it is now possible for the pharmacists to supply and re-ordain the medicine already prescribed by the doctor to the patient. At the same time, these treating pharmacists also get the opportunity to prescribe dose dispensation with supplements for those patients and citizens who want to have their medication divided so they can remember to take it; you might see it as some very long strips with stripes of medicine. Remembering to take your medicine may be the simplest thing for some, but for a lot of people it can be difficult. Here too, the pharmacists are given an opportunity. This is a very fine change, and the attitude of the Social Democrats is a complete runaway. Our pharmacists and our skilled pharmacists are an integral part of our healthcare system, making it more flexible and flexible. The third amendment proposed here is indeed an important change. We have had many cases in Denmark where health professionals are bound a complaint, a trial on their sleeve, because they have failed to meet the demands, duties, conscientiousness and timeliness that otherwise lie in having a medical certificate, and what is the general framework for health care activities. What is happening now is to make clear the organisational responsibility for errors and other health care conditions which may endanger patient safety. It must be understood in this way that for those who have overall operational responsibility, it will mostly be municipalities, it will be the five regions, but it may also be private companies that are health professionals, who will be given clarification of their responsibilities. It is precisely for these organizations to organize their treatment centres in such a way that the staff must always be able to carry out their duties fully professionally and comply with the duties relating to their professional competence and their authorisation. We also think that this is an important and good clarification that we are getting in place here. Social democracy can support the bill that lies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009211511	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009211518	In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that all those working in the health care sector should have an authorisation. This is because they are often involved in a process in which there may be a risk of error or lameness. So, of course, we are very pleased that ambulance dealers, paramedics and pharmacists get a license. We merely believe that this should apply to all those who have worked in health care. This will provide greater patient safety and legal certainty. The Minister will set up an authorisation system for ambulance workers and an additional registration for ambulance workers who have further training for ambulance workers with special qualifications. We also call in everyday terms paramedics and a certain kind of pharmacists who have taken an additional training. However, we believe that everyone who has a task such as this one has to do. The chemists, must have a license like all the pharmacists who work around our pharmacies, hospitals and other places where they deal with medications for the sick and the elderly. We would also like to ask the Minister how we ensure that all prescription printing devices can provide this service. We know that there are several places where there are no pharmacists. I know that the bill says that then you can call, and then you can get in touch, but we have a problem, because after the new Pharmacy Act, which we all helped to adopt, a great many units have arrived. And there are some places where there aren't pharmacists all the time. The second proposal is a better level of service for citizens and availability of medicines by introducing two new healthcare services in pharmacies and pharmacy branches. It is the duty of pharmacists to offer the reordination and prescription of dose dispensation with supplements. It is a very good thing that we get there, that you can offer the smallest package at the pharmacy to someone who has not just been given a new prescription for the medication he has been used to taking. I can see that there are some consultation answers where you are concerned that this can be very dangerous. Well, what we are talking about is many times a medicine that you may have taken for five years, for example. an asthma medicine that you need because something has just come back into the air and the doctor has closed or is difficult to reach or is taking a holiday, or there is no doctor in the area at all that we see in some places. Then it might be good that instead of getting sick, you could go to the pharmacy, where there was a doctor who could then print this prescription until you got in touch with a doctor. It's the same way for this girl who didn't just get this prescription on the pill. Instead of using the expensive guard doctor, as some do in the time when it is not open, it could be exactly where you could do it. It is not a first-time prescription to be printed. It's a prescription for something you already use. Dose delivery is something we've seen in several places. However, as is also written in the draft law, this is something that we see a decline in. There are, in fact, municipalities that gradually think that this may be a problem, also because some people get changed medicines very often. And in some cases it pays extra for the people who receive dose dispensation. In fact, it has already become more expensive today. It's user charges we've got in through the back door to our sickest and elderly. For instead of being the nurse who goes to home care and doses the medicine, it is now the user himself who pays the pharmacy to dose the medicine. And if you get the medicine delivered to a pharmacy that is not just one of the big ones in the cities, but which is one of these extradition points, which are usually located in the countryside, where there are not so many people, then you have to pay for it yourself. I just got word from someone who told me she's gonna get $250. more a month. In other words, it is the sick, and it is the elderly that we are paying for a system that we have helped to adopt. I'd like to have a look at that one. I have already mentioned to the Minister that this is a user charge that we have to do something about, because it is the worst that this is going to suffer. Thirdly, it proposes clarification of the responsibility for errors and other health care conditions which may endanger patient safety. Of course, we support that. I can see that time has passed, so I can't say much more. Of course we are positive about the proposal, but have a number of questions and perhaps some amendments. Who knows?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009212036	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009212042	Today, we are the first to deal with a legislative proposal in which the focal points are patient safety, the legal certainty of health professionals and the continued development of health care, with a professional starting point for ambulance dealers and pharmacists. It is very much about professionalism, but the starting point for us in the Left is the patient: What can benefit, and what can help the individual patient to a safer course of treatment while at the same time providing security about your treatment in everyday life? We usually meet ambulance dealers and pharmacists close to our home. Let me give you an example: the ambulance worker meets the boy Søren in his home because he has had an acute asthma attack and cannot breathe. The ambulance worker initiates immediate treatment and then follows consideration of whether Søren should be taken to the hospital or alternatively remain at home when he can again breathe independently. Both Søren and Søren's mother know everything about the local pharmacist, because it is here that they fetch Søren's asthma medicine and receive additional advice and guidance, and if Søren runs out of asthma medicine and has not received a prescription, the pharmacist can hand over the usual asthma medicine to Søren so that he can continue the necessary medical treatment until his mother gets the prescription renewed. Søren is a lucky boy, that he can be given asthma medication without prescription in case of an emergency. There are only a few preparations for which this can be done, and I will return to that later in my speech. I could have mentioned examples other than an asthma example, but the point is the same as in asthma sufferers. We need to strengthen pre-hospital efforts and with the authorisation of ambulance workers, we significantly strengthen patient safety. For the truth is that in modern health care we need a strong emergency response. Ambulance practitioners often meet a variety of tasks. It's from cardiac arrest to serious traffic accidents to birthing women. Whatever the case, the task is the same: saving lives, creating security, reducing pain and caring. An authorisation also includes obligations and both ambulance dealers and paramedics will be subject to the general obligations of other groups of authorised healthcare professionals. This also means that they will be subject to supervision by the Patient Safety Agency because supervision helps to ensure high quality in the important work of ambulance staff. As mentioned earlier, the bill also deals with pharmacies. It is recommended that pharmacists can re-order a limited range of medicinal products for patients on stable treatment. Today, the field of coordination is narrow. That is, for example, the case. insulin for diabetic patients or asthma medication for asthmatics. If we are to hold on to a vibrant, dynamic and modern health care system while at the same time ensuring that we are bonding in the near health care system, it is a good place to start putting the knowledge and professional skills of pharmacists into play. It is both in relation to reordinations and eligible dose dispensations that can help reduce the risk of the medication being taken incorrectly. Dose delivery is a good thing for the individual, especially for elderly medical patients with chronic disorders, who are often seen to have large and very diverse medicines. Here dose delivery can make a difference in everyday life and the medicine more secure, simple and manageable. With the greater responsibility for pharmacists, special training is also required in the form of a course to dress the pharmacists for the new task. With a passed course certificate in hand follows the title treats pharmacist. The last part of the bill is about the demands we make on regions, municipalities and private companies that provide health care. It should be safe to be a patient in the Danish health care system. Treatment sites must be organised in such a way that, for example: the right facilities are available so that a caregiver can do his job conscientiously and conscientiously. Such organisation shall be the responsibility of each region or municipality or undertaking. There is therefore a great responsibility on the part of the operator to organise and organize the work at the local treatment centres so that it cannot be entrusted to the individual health care provider to take responsibility for this. That point is clarified by the draft law here. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009212539	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009212546	Thank you. Here again we have a legislative proposal which consists of a number of different independent proposals. Two of the three of us think we're good, so it's such a cliffhanger for the audience. I will take the proposals one at a time and end by proposing that we divide the bill into two. The first part of the proposal is, after all, about the authorisation of ambulance dealers. We'll back that up. We think it is absolutely necessary that the staffing of ambulances should be subject to the duties and rights which come with a medical certificate. This means, of course, that we can ensure that they have a high and uniform professionalism when they become protected titles. Then, of course, there are also a number of obligations to exercise care and conscientiousness, as is also the case with other authorised health professionals. This also means that they are covered by the same rules of complaint, compensation and supervision as we know from the rest of the health services. The second part of the bill concerns the introduction of a new function, namely the treatment of pharmacists, who must be able to re-order certain medicines and prescribe dose dispensation. This is the part we're critical of. I understand the background to this proposal and what you have thought, and I can easily understand that it can be annoying if you have forgotten to renew your prescription. I've been there, too. However, I think we should be very careful that a concern for convenience does not take precedence over patient safety, and I think there is a risk of that here. We know that in the event of an emergency, for example: In relation to insulin, as the Left rapporteur mentioned, or asthma, including the adrenaline pens, you can give the medicine today. At the same time, it is also the case that if you have forgotten to renew your prescription and it is important that you continue with your medicine and that it is not interrupted because you have to wait for your doctor to open again, yes, then you can call a guard doctor. Treating pharmacists must have a training period of 1 to 3 days. I simply do not think this is enough to be able to assess whether a patient is in stable treatment. It sounds very simple when people say that if you've been prescribed a drug before, you can just continue with it. It's not that simple. It is very important that you can assess the patient's clinical condition • whether there is a development in it, whether there has been another, new medicine that may have a contra-indication in relation to the medicine. That is why the general practitioner has a long practical education alongside his university education. More than 6 years of special training need clinical experience precisely in order to assess the patient's condition. If you read the consultation answers that have come from the Danish Society for Clinical Pharmacology, you can also see that they go through a large number of examples • some of those they have listed could be subject to re-ordination • how problematic it can be, i.e. what it is for some clinical assessments you have to be able to make in order to assess whether it makes sense to re-order. That is precisely why you not only have free access to a medicine, but sometimes have to go up and see your doctor. The example of the birth control pill is also mentioned. Today it is the case that the Danish Health Service has said that you have to see your doctor once a year, because we know that there is an increased risk of, among other things. blood clots. If you just get a re-ordination it will always be 3 months, because that's how the pill packs are... we're in danger of getting into conflict with these health-care checks we've put in. We have asked a large number of questions which have been sent out today and which will ask more questions about this part of the bill. The third part of the bill is to clarify the organisational responsibility for errors and for other health care conditions which may endanger patient safety. So that means that, for example, regions, municipalities or companies providing health care must be obliged to organise work in a way that allows health professionals to do their work in a professionally sound manner. This does not, of course, change the fact that the individual health care provider also always has a responsibility for his or her own professionalism. However, this is a reaction to the fact that we see that errors in health care are often about how many resources are available and how work is organised, more than it is necessarily about a single person. I have noticed that the Medical Association does not think that it is strong enough, as formulated in the draft law. I have some doubts as to what exactly is meant. We have asked a question to clarify whether it could be stronger, because I do not see any real disagreement. But let us look at this in the committee work. However, to sum up: two out of three parts we can support and we propose that the bill be divided into two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213104	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213112	Thank you. This bill is a very good bill because it helps to strengthen both patient safety and the legal certainty of healthcare professionals. The bill also supports both emergency preparedness and pre-hospital efforts. The proposal goes on several legs. It is proposed to introduce an authorisation system for ambulance dealers and an additional registration for ambulance dealers who have further trained themselves as paramedics with special skills. In addition, the proposal contains an element aimed at improving the level of service for citizens and increasing the availability of medicines by introducing two new healthcare services into pharmacy and pharmacy branches. In this way, pharmacists' professionalism and knowledge of medicinal products are better exploited, and pharmacists will play a greater role in the close health care sector. This is very positive, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213219	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213239	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also positive about the bill. I will start by saying what we are positive about. In fact, I think that is a very good line in the comments to the draft law, which says: "The aim of the changes is to support the continued development of healthcare services and availability of medicines, as well as to strengthen patient safety and the legal certainty of healthcare professionals. These are three really, really good elements, and I think they are actually being met. We have our thumbs up for the upskilling of ambulance staff, including title-wise, and we say that is sensible. We also have a great deal of understanding and think it is a very good idea to ensure who is responsible in the system. It can very quickly be the individual health care person who will have a very heavy yoke on his shoulders. So we are in complete agreement with part three as well. Then we have the element of creating greater service compared to the product you now need if you have not just renewed your prescription. Several rapporteurs have already said that this is a situation that many have faced. I've been in it myself. If you have children, you've probably been in it more than once. Well, I certainly do. That is why we also think that we should do something about it. Well, we'll have to test that. We'll have to look at that, just like we did in the cannabis area. Even if this is something completely, completely different, let's try it. So we would like to propose in the committee's work that it was an experimental system with an evaluation. How rigid it should be, I haven't gotten to it. It must be our normal rapporteur who has to do so. But it is a good element that will improve the service. The risk that it will be decisive for some patients is that there is something safety or something irresponsible in it we need to look at. We are not really so nervous about it immediately. However, we are listening to the consultation answers, and that is why we would also like to have an established evaluation included in the legislative proposal. We'll see if we can do that. Otherwise, it could be an opportunity to divide up the proposal, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said. However, as a starting point, we are in agreement and positive with all three elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213433	Thank you to the rapporteur. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213442	Thank you. In the SF, we agree that an authorisation system for ambulance dealers and a registration of ambulance dealers with special skills is a good idea. The protection of titles will at the same time make it clear who is doing what and who is sitting on what tasks. A clear distribution of tasks will also increase patient safety, and this will also mean that ambulance workers will in future be covered by the obligations and sanctions of the licensing law. We support that in the SF. The ambulance staff today have a host of different tasks, and at the same time the tasks are becoming more and more complex. That is why we also believe that it is an advantage for ambulance staff to have clearly defined tasks so that they can help and treat both where the accident or disease occurs and in the transport to the hospital. SF also shares the conviction that the introduction of an authorisation and registration system will enhance pre-hospital patient safety, which we advocate. It may immediately make sense that pharmacists who complete a course in treatment pharmacy in pharmacies and pharmacists are given the opportunity to re-order a limited range of medicines with which a patient is in medical treatment and also to prescribe dose-dependent medicines. In fact, I am thinking that exactly the pharmacists may be the ones who really know the most about medicine. In the SF, we are very committed to improving the level of service for citizens who need the treatment, and therefore it makes sense to allow pharmacists to play a greater role in health care. In this way, we can involve far more pharmacists' professionalism and knowledge of medicines in the treatment process, while increasing citizens' availability of medicines. However, it is important to make it clear that prescription in pharmacies must take place to the extent that patient safety is adequately assessed and, if further clarification is needed, according to the consultation answers, I also think, of course, that we should take time to do so in committee. In SF, it is important to be aware of one's responsibilities. That is why we also believe that clarifying the organisational responsibility for errors is a good thing, as it can greatly contribute to improving patient safety. It is important that both regions and municipalities and private operators are aware of exactly what tasks they cover, and therefore also what responsibility they have when providing health care. Furthermore, we are in favour of debureaucratisation, but also a clear division of responsibilities, which is why the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213737	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009213744	Thank you. On the conservative side, we think this is a quite sensible legislative proposal. The three main elements are designed to strengthen patient safety and the legal certainty of healthcare professionals and to support the continued development and service of health care. The first component introduces an authorisation system for ambulance dealers and a registration for ambulance dealers who have further trained for ambulance dealers with special skills, and paramedics. We think that is quite reasonable. We see many times that I have at least seen it several times that someone is coming, where there is a paramedic on his back, and there you expect it to be someone who really knows his affairs. They can do so today, but at least now we have the opportunity to give an authorisation system so that we know that, when there is a paramedic on their backs, they also have a very good education. Protection of the titles is introduced as an ambulance processor, ambulance processor with special skills and paramedics, and this will certainly strengthen the urgent and pre-hospital patient safety for the benefit of patients, relatives and employers alike. The second component proposes that pharmacists and pharmacists should be required to offer a limited range of medicinal products to a patient in stable medical care and to be able to prescribe dose dispensing with supplements. This proposal is clearly of benefit to the individual citizen and to society as a whole. At least I'm not worried that those pharmacies and pharmacists don't have staff to do this. I'm not the big drug user, but I've been given medicine once, and I should have re-ordained it too. It was this way that I called down and talked to the secretary, and then I got it re-ordained. In fact, I think this is an even better arrangement, which we are fully confident about. The third component clarifies the organisational responsibility for errors and other health care conditions which may endanger patient safety. This is a way of ensuring that errors and non-compliance with obligations laid down in the legislation attributable to the operator's actions and organisation of work are not imposed on the individual health care professional. We think it is very good that it is not the individual health care provider who should be punked here, but it is the operators who have made the arrangements. Conservatives can fully support the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009214026	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009214029	Thank you for the comments and the broad support from this Chamber to the bill. There is no doubt that, as far as our pre-hospital area is concerned, the government wants both a strong emergency response in Denmark and a security across the country when it comes to providing emergency preparedness that covers and that can move out through damage, accidents and be there when people need it. Having a strong emergency response in Denmark also means that a great deal of attention must be paid to the fact that the citizen meets a staff who have the necessary skills to help when the accident has occurred or in the event of serious illness. We have just been through a change and a reorganization of the whole ambulance training, so that it is strengthened even more, and with the bill we are discussing today we are also preparing for the approval of the ambulance rescuers, of the paramedics, whom they are probably better known in popular terms as than ambulance dealers with special skills. We have also taken a number of other initiatives in the field of emergency, such as: with a new specialty in emergency medicine, and together with Dansk Folkeparti as part of the Finance Act last year by inserting a fourth emergency medical helicopter in Denmark. It is just to mention some of the latest initiatives that have been taken to strengthen the emergency area and emergency response in Denmark. With the authorisation system for ambulance staff, which we are proposing with the bill, we are building on the results already achieved and also supporting continued development in emergency preparedness, where we also see that, in this way, ambulance rescuers are also helping, helping out and going right into the acute receptions in relation to standing side by side with our health professionals, and that is why we can also look at the consultation responses as well as the work that preceded that, with the broad support of professional organisations in the field of health policy, there is support for an authorisation system for our ambulance rescuers. The bill also strengthens the role of pharmacists in the close health care system for the benefit of patients. I think, of course, that with this bill, we are very much putting a heavy emphasis on the fact that pharmacies are part of the health sector and not part of the retail trade, and that means that we must also look at what competences there are in the pharmacies, as well as what opportunities there are for developing our pharmacy sector for the benefit of the citizens of this country who may need the knowledge that is in the pharmacies and the services that there are. As a natural part of the patient's meeting with the health service, the pharmacists are today, and we also believe that the draft law can help even more to ensure that their high professionalism and their knowledge of medicinal products also go in and contribute to re-ordaining in cases where a prescription has not been renewed. After all, it is not work that comes out of nowhere, and I am just led to say, also to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that the report, which was, after all, launched as part of the provision of all pharmaceutical legislation here in the Parliamentary Chamber, in relation to Question 112 of the then Health Minister back in 2014, was promised that a report would be drawn up which looked at what it was like in the other countries. After all, in a number of countries there is a much greater use of the competences of pharmacists, the competences of pharmacodynamics in prescribing and redefining medicines. So this whole discussion that it is both patient-insecure or not supposed to be based on a professional basis, I simply cannot follow when Enhedslisten's rapporteur raises the question, because there has been a long-standing work ahead, and the report that both the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Patient Safety Agency were behind and on which we have also had discussions in the rapporteur's circle, is, as such, what leads to the model that we are now embarking on with this draft law, and which, of course, allows some of the competences that lie in pharmacies to be developed in new health services, which may be complementary to medical care. Of course, it cannot replace the medical assessment, but it can also be done by treating pharmacists to take part in the right of prescription, if, if necessary, of course, taking into account patient safety and therefore also in a restricted area, and can go in and reorder medicines when it is estimated that this would be a better use of our resources than calling the doctor or patient without medication for a weekend because the prescription has not been renewed. The last part of the three parts of the bill, namely the organisational responsibility, is, for me, extremely important, also to ensure legal certainty for our healthcare staff. Basically, it is also a question of ensuring that they feel safe when they go to work and they know that the health authorisation they have is not called into question if, if it is the operator, be it the municipality, be it the region, be it the private company, who has not ensured that the framework is there for them to be able to work professionally securely. I think it is important, in these times, to stress that if the computer system does not work or if the region has not organized its work in a professional manner, it should not be the individual nurse who should fear that the fault in the computer system may affect the health care provider's authorisation. We have seen some cases, including those that the Patient Safety Agency has been around, over the last few years, which have also been discussed, also in this circle, where it has to be said that it raises doubts as to whether legal certainty for our healthcare professionals is sufficient. That is why I see it as extremely important to clarify the organisational responsibility of the Health Act as being extremely important to also signal who is responsible for the overall framework and who is to ensure that the conditions for our staff in hospitals are of sufficiently high quality in the municipalities, so that you can carry out your work professionally and thus also make clear the organisational responsibility for errors and other health care conditions in cases where mistakes have been made and where it is then specifically assessed whether it is the individual health person who has made the mistake and is responsible for the error or whether it is about the organisation not providing adequate frameworks. I look forward, of course, to further consideration and make myself available to the questions that the committee wants. I just wanted to say thank you for your positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009214702	Thank you to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009214715	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009214726	Thank you very much, President. It's so nice when you come here on the platform and have to deal with new things. It is very good for our society to take new initiatives, and I simply believe that one of the fundamental conditions for us to have reached where we are as a society is that we have developed new things. We have listened to what is reasonable and thus acted relatively quickly on it. We have discussed expensive hospital medicine and medical development and prices of medicines many times. We have discussed in the rapporteur's circle, together with successive ministers, what the relationship should be like when we consider that new medical products are being put on the street very frequently: should we then be a country where we offer the patients the medicine quickly in order to get the benefits that new medicines can have, or should we hold back a little and wait for others to try things out and the medicine may have become cheaper before we offer it to Danish patients. Fortunately, we have stood together and said that we will be a country where patients and citizens will have the benefits of new medicines quickly. The bill we are dealing with here is about exactly that. Instead of having a bit of heavy workflows to be able to prescribe some new medicine, which has been found to work, but which is also expensive; rather than having to apply for special grants and the possibility of obtaining the medicine, we are now trying some of a trial scheme which will run over three years, which will be evaluated and which will provide the basis for future firm legislation. We call it a risk-sharing in connection with subsidies for new medicines. This is what we hope will facilitate access to prescription medicines and thus give patients the benefits. The idea is that when you make an assessment of a new medicine and you may find out that you have to give it what is termed a subsidy, it means that you make an assessment of how many patients it safely, possibly, will probably be discharged to the hospital you now have an opportunity to say: we hope and believe that there are 100 patients who need the new product. We are setting it off, but if it turns out that perhaps 500 patients need it, yes, then the cost of public health care will have to cover the 100 patients. However, if there are 500 patients, the pharmaceutical company that produced the medicine will have to cover the cost of the last patients, that is, those above the 100. This means that the uncertainty in terms of whether or not you can control the economy in this area disappears. In any case, we know what the maximum cost will be from the public sector. It's really good, it's really exciting to get this done. But we also have one but from the Socialist side. It is that the experimental system allows only two medicinal products, two products, to be tested in the first place within this experimental system. A number of grants may be granted, if appropriate, with the Minister's authorisation. However, we think, as several of the consultations have also indicated, that it will give us a very, very poor and simplistic basis for assessing the system. That is why, from the point of view of the Socialist Group towards the third reading, we are going to work towards extending it so that it is not just two medicines, but more. I know that one of the reasons why the Ministry has put two on it is that it has looked back a few years and seen how many preparations it has dealt with. However, we believe, from a socialist point of view, that developments are going to be much faster. Therefore, there may be a need to take more drugs into this trial scheme. We would like to enter into a constructive discussion with the rapporteur and with the Minister. But with these comments, I would like to say that we think this is a good legislative proposal. It lays out some new lines for patients, but also that it can be exciting to be a pharmaceutical manufacturer and see Denmark as an exciting market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009215239	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009215244	The priority of medicine is something we have been discussing over the past few years. There have been many large and long debates, and I have also said on several occasions that why are we not trying to make agreements with pharmaceutical companies to try some of them out? We can see that you are trying in the other countries. It is no cure, no pay and now also this risk-sharing which we can fully support around. In this debate we have had on the priority of medicines, we went in and made an agreement with the then Minister for Health on some principles, so that the regions did not overwhelm us and said that it was the economy that came first. Of course we have to think about economics, but for the Danish People's Party it is all about the fact that it is not the economy that should decide whether we can afford to treat a patient, because then there would be little medicine for rare diagnoses; for some of those who have some diseases that require something more. And that's why we think this is a very good thing for patients: we are now looking at paragraph 5, which we had, in relation to the priority, that we should have rapid entry into service for the benefit of patients. You could say that's what we're doing here. Some come with new innovative medicines, and we do not know how good it is and how it will work. We can, of course, propose some subsidies, but we also know that there will be a great deal on the market in the years we are looking forward to. Here the Minister suggests that we make this 3-year trial period, where it is the Danish Medicines Agency that is given the opportunity to announce that a prescription medicinal product can be granted conditional grants, but under the conditions that are then called risk-sharing. I think, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen made it very clear how to divide it up, and this is done by taking each one's risk so that the economy is not burdened in the same way. You agree on how large a population it will be, and if that population gets bigger, then more patients will have to have it, and then it is the pharmaceutical company that goes in and covers it financially. So in this way, we are freed from the health care that we are nervous about having to have a high cost of new medicines, because a new medicine is usually always more expensive. But what is important is that we continue to ensure that new medicines are introduced to treat some of the diseases in which we do not have medicines. The bill says, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said that these are two products. In fact, we want to talk about them in committee too, i.e. if we could not put on a little more, because how awful it would be if there were a third product, which was exactly what was better than the others, or whatever it might be. I know the Minister has an authorisation in the bill, but I think we should have a talk about whether we could open it up a little more and ensure that we can get an agreement in this area so that we do not miss this last product that we might be able to bring in. So I would agree with the Social Democrats that it is fantastic at all that we are so in agreement today almost all around. Must be a good collection we're going to start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009215637	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome to Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009215649	Denmark is a good country. Denmark has a well-developed healthcare system where skilled doctors and nurses provide treatment every day, both medically and surgically, of high quality. Denmark is also a good country to operate in. Denmark has the life science industry, which is among the world's leaders, and we can be proud of that. We have companies that contribute to the research and development of medicine and medical equipment, companies that make a difference, not only for Danish patients, but for people around the world. Some will think that we can just sit back and look at both the beauty spots that we can spot and the development potentials that life science holds. We in the Left do not think so. Danish patients need a strong life science cluster, and life science needs Danish patients. But how can this be? The fact is that in Denmark we have a well-functioning subsidy system which guarantees Danish patients a fair subsidy, for those who have the highest medical costs are also those who receive the highest subsidies. This is both fair and solidarity. But we all know it: The development roars out there, and often very expensive innovative medicines find their way out to Danish patients. Or do they? Because we have a small challenge with our subsidy system. The Danish Medicines Agency works with two types of grants. A general grant or a general clause. The general supplement is the supplement that most of us know from the general drug purchase at the pharmacy, while the generally excluded supplement can be obtained by a patient when the medicine is prescribed for the treatment of certain diseases or a defined patient group and the doctor at the prescription has indicated that the patient meets the supplement clause. However, there is a risk for the public sector, namely a medicinal product which is subsidised to patients who are not covered by the subsidy clause and where the cost of the medicinal product thus increases for the public sector. This means that the Danish Medicines Agency can refuse a grant, and it is of course not in the interests of the patient, nor in the interests of the manufacturer of the medicinal product. In March 2018, the government presented a growth plan for life science with 36 initiatives, and one of the initiatives in this context was a risk-sharing proposal, i.e. a model in which the pharmaceutical industry assumes financial risk and costs if a given drug is prescribed to patients without a given clause. With the bill here, the government is proposing a three-year trial scheme which includes two medicines for which patients are not automatically supported today. I have listened to the fact that there are more parties who think that it should be extended by more than these two medicines. I am, in effect, pleased with the life science strategy that we have and the financial resources that have been set aside for it. I do not know exactly what it is like with the Social Democrat rapporteur. As I remember, social democracy is not part of the life science strategy, but I am thinking already that we can have an economic challenge that we need to talk about. The medicinal products will be calculated on the basis of an application round and provided that the applicant company concludes a risk-sharing agreement with the public sector. In this way, the company assumes the financial risk of inappropriate first choice, so that the public authorities do not run the risk of having a medical bill which is financially out of control. Such an experimental scheme is beneficial both to the public and to pharmaceutical companies and to patients. So this is a win win win-win situation. Patients receive a supplement for a medicine for which they may not have received a supplement before. The pharmaceutical company obtains advantages on export markets because it often makes a positive difference to sales when the product has obtained a subsidy status in the country of origin. This means, among other things, that products are more likely to obtain subsidies on some export markets. And we ensure that the cost of the grant does not run away if there are more patients than expected to discharge the medication in question. As I have already mentioned, we are in Denmark's strong position when it comes to life science. We have skilled companies, a strong health service and a sovereign research environment. Denmark has the opportunity to be even stronger in the future. In the Left, we look forward to following the experimental scheme, which will be evaluated in 2021, and we look forward to following the development of life science, because there is undoubtedly an untapped potential that we must have unfolded. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220140	There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220143	I got a little curious. I would like to ask whether you should be part of life science, by the way, a fantastic Danish word in order to support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220200	No, I don't think you should. However, what I could listen to during the debate was that both the Socialist rapporteur and the DF's rapporteur wanted to extend from two to more preparations. Then it's just so quiet, I'd like to point out that there's an economy that comes with this life science strategy. And as I remember, social democracy is not behind life science, but that is why you can support the bill here. I am pleased, moreover, to hear the Socialist rapporteur say that the bill is supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220229	I ask again: if you are not part of this strategy, can you not help to recommend spending more than two, if that is what you want to set aside money for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220243-2	Yes, you can recommend two or more. I would just like to point out quite peacefully that if you want to involve more medicines than the two proposed here, which is, of course, one that you can say the consequence of the life science strategy, then there is an economic challenge. And there I have a clear expectation that when you want to expand the palette, you also have the willingness to find the economy that needs to be found. It's just the kind of thing I'm talking about peacefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220317	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220318	Now the rapporteur of the Left makes it sound as if it is the Left Government that has driven life science forward in Denmark and has made a strategy for it. I believe that everyone who had to listen to this knows that previous governments have highlighted and so supported the life science strategy, both Farma and Medicotechnical and everything else we have in Denmark. So there follows the bourgeois government just what the Socialist-led government also laid the foundation stone for. So I would say about the economy: well, we cannot read anything in the legislative proposal about what is associated with economics in relation to two preparations, two medicines. What we are just saying is: let us have a political debate on this. I have said this in order to use the rapporteur's rhetoric perfectly peacefully. However, let us look forward to the third reading if we cannot extend it here, because when we look at the consultation answers, there are several consultation answers that say that it will be too vulnerable with only two products. After all, no one knows whether both products will arrive and are still part of the experimental scheme when it has to be evaluated in three years' time. We just think that we should make the most of it if we are now making the effort to set up an experimental system, which is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220438-2	I just think that I would like to quote briefly what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I said that in March 2018, the government presented a life science growth plan with 36 initiatives, and one of the initiatives in this regard was a risk-sharing proposal. And no, it's nothing new that changing governments have supported life science, but when I specifically mention the government's life science growth plan, it's because this risk-sharing proposal was part of exactly this government's what to say priorities in terms of life science.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220518	But life science is very different, and there are plenty of forerunners for it. We had a growth forum specifically for this area when we were in government. So it's just that we don't get to pick on each other, but say we're building upstairs. We do that every day. I said in my rapporteur's speech that one of the reasons why we have the country we have is that we have taken new initiatives. At least one thing is certain: the wider the majority behind the initiatives, the more robust they become. We're gonna throw ourselves into this and say that, and I'm glad that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also says that if we can make this experimental scheme even more robust, we'd like to help with it. I also said in a previous rapporteur's speech in this Chamber this evening: how annoying it is that every time we are going to take better initiatives, we are going to cut a heel and cut a toe elsewhere and weaken good arrangements to find an economy. But we're there, I just want to say to the Left. We'd like to discuss this with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220619	Well, I am super excited to be here to experience the enthusiasm of both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. We are quite open to discussing the possibility of extending the palette. I look forward, moreover, to constructive offers of funding. So thank you for your support. I think it's amazing like this on Tuesday night at 9:00. 22.08 or so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220652	Thank you very much to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Stine Brix of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009220700	Thank you. A three-year trial scheme in which the Danish Medicines Agency is given the opportunity to grant a prescription drug in general conditional grant on risk-sharing conditions. That sounds like gibberish to me late at night. But what that means is that the public health service must be able to cover the cost of a subsidy, where it is set aside for the group of patients who it is believed will benefit from this product and where it is estimated that the therapeutic value is reasonable in relation to the price, while the pharmaceutical companies must then cover the cost of the public subsidy to the group of patients who may receive it, but who would not have been initially assessed to benefit from it. I don't know if that made it any clearer. But I think it is an excellent idea to try. We've known about experiments on this concept, risk-sharing, from a large number of other countries. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned this so-called Danish concept pay per cure, or that you pay for the treatment effect that will be. We know that attempts have been made in some other countries. I think that among other things... Italy, France and England have done so, and I really think that the principle is quite good to say that it is only if the treatment actually works that we also pay for it. But we also know in practice that this is really, really difficult. For what we can see in many of the countries where we are trying to do this kind of risk-sharing is quite a fight about whether or not there has actually been an effect, in other words really a legal wrangling between industry and the public authorities to find out how it ended up, and who will pay? That is why I think it is actually sensible to put forward a slightly different model, which is easy to quantify, namely on a fixed number of patients, who have then been assessed as being those who will have an effect. Then we must try to see whether those assessments are actually correct and so on. There are also other countries which, as far as I can understand, have carried out a risk-sharing similar to this Danish model, and I would like to know if the Minister could help us get some of the experience into this experiment. Now there has been some talk about how many attempts there really will be. In other words, there are two medicines that are directly funded, but there are, as far as I understand, also experiences with this model from other countries, and we should also take that with us when we look at it in Denmark in three years' time. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221005	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221014	Thank you. This bill is part of the government's wake-up plan for life science launched in March 2018. In addition, the proposal also stems from the recommendations of the working group which carried out a service review of the medical supplement system in 2017. The proposal is a strengthening of Danish patients' easy access to prescription medicines, but will also allow patients to use new and more innovative means more quickly and more easily. We support this objective in the Liberal Alliance because we believe it is important that Danes have as easy access to new medicines as possible and receive as good treatment as possible and as early as possible. This proposal with a three-year trial period is an excellent initiative to find a solution to cases where the Danish Medicines Agency refuses grants, especially because the risk-sharing between the public health service and the pharmaceutical companies in terms of grant costs is very reasonable. The public health service is exempted from a number of subsidies costs, but patients nevertheless receive subsidies in these cases, as the additional costs are borne by pharmaceutical companies. So there are limited costs for the public health service. For the Liberal Alliance, it is also positive that the proposal provides an administrative relief for doctors. Central to us is also the fact that the pharmaceutical companies that may be included in this agreement can withdraw their application. This ensures that no company is bound to an agreement they do not want anyway. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221207	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, and welcome to Mr May-Britt Kattrup. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221216	Before I say what we think about the bill, I just want to introduce a thought. For many years I have had an idea that the debate on DR2 with Clement Kjersgaard should have a pendant somewhere, where it was about seeing how agreed one could stay during the evening, i.e. such a pendulum and a barometer where one, the more enlightened one became, the more informed one became, the more common and one's analysis one got, because one became so and so much wiser, the more one could walk away from it. Then it would be quite obvious where it was, the differences, the differences of opinion, were, but where it was not the facts on which one disagreed, but simply attitudes, political opinions. I think it is a pleasure to be part of the Health Committee and it may be that it is because this is the first time in the new session that there is so much consensus. However, I think that the proposals we have been through this evening show that these are areas which have been debated quite strongly in the past, and perhaps that is why there is so much agreement that what is going on is sensible. I can therefore also say with pleasure that we are also in favour of this bill. In addition to that, I shall not really say so much than that I look forward to the next, where we are also expecting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221328	Thank you to René Gade and welcome to Kirsten Normann Andersen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221336	Thank you. Well, I think it's kind of nice that Mr. Simpson... René Gade is experiencing how, at least in the health sector, we actually very, very often and luckily for it is agreed. This is simply too important an area in which we disagree too much, and that is why this is also going to be a very, very short speech from the rapporteur. I would like, in effect, to assign Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen the credit for the most understandable rapporteur speech on this point this evening. That is a really difficult proposal to explain, which is why I simply do not want to try again, because we have heard it many times now. So I am completely in line with what Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen has already said from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221426	Thank you to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen and welcome to Mr. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221435	Thank you. I could almost have done it just as briefly, but I fully agree with Mr. René Gade in that the cooperation that I have just experienced today, on the one hand in the committee and on the other hand in what is going on here, is quite exceptional, and I hope it is also in other places here at Castle. However, on the proposal here, I would like to say that in Denmark today we have a well-functioning subsidy system which ensures that subsidies for medicinal products are granted in proportion to the individual patient's need for eligible medicines. The new proposal will then further strengthen patients' access to prescription medicines and at the same time allow patients to make more rapid and easier use of new and innovative medicines. We can do this by providing for risk-sharing so that public health services can be freed from the economic risk associated with inappropriate first choice. In fact, the proposal makes it possible for medicinal products where there is a financial risk of inappropriate first choice and which, therefore, would not now receive generally agreed subsidies, to be able to do so by deciding on risk-sharing by the Danish Medicines Agency with the consent of the company. After all, the risk sharing means that the public health service covers the cost of grants to a specified number of patients who are assessed to comply with the grant clause, while pharmaceutical companies cover the cost of subsidies to the public sector for the number of patients who exceed what was expected. That is to say, patients get the subsidy they need, but you share this very thing. It's not going to be a fifty-fifty division, but it's going to be where it's going to exceed what you've been expecting. From the conservative point of view, it is quite reasonable for the public health services and pharmaceutical companies to share that risk, which is why we can fully support the overall proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221640	Thank you. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Health, who is warmly welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009221651	Thank you, President. Thank you for your comments and for the positive reception of the bill. We basically have a well-established and well-functioning medical supplement system in Denmark, which, of course, contributes greatly to ensuring that supplements to medicines are also provided in relation to the individual patient's need for eligible medicines. We are also a country where we are basically good at bringing in new medicines early, but that is not to say that we cannot do better, and therefore also the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. The government wants to further strengthen patients' easy access to prescription medicines, which is why the government also wants to allow patients to experience even more rapid and easier use of new, innovative medicines than we do today. This is also the reason why, with the life science strategy we presented in March, the government is proposing a three-year trial scheme in which the Danish Medicines Agency is given the opportunity to announce a prescription drug in general, conditional grants on terms of risk-sharing, in other words, where a sharing relationship with the pharmaceutical industry is agreed in relation to getting a product out more quickly on the market for the benefit of patients. In addition to the fact that the proposal is expected to benefit patients, it is also expected to benefit the Danish pharmaceutical sector and the companies, the Danish life science sector. The proposal for the introduction of a risk-sharing pilot scheme, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, is just one of the many new initiatives in the Government's Life Science Growth Plan launched in March 2018 and subsequently made a political agreement in the Folketing with the support of the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. That is why it will also be possible to read from the draft law that the 1.5 million. kr., which is used for administration at the Danish Medicines Agency to manage a risk-sharing system, comes from the growth plan on life science, which was concluded with the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. The proposal, after all, by means of the legislative proposal that we are debating today, allows for the possibility that, in future, subsidies for medicinal products which today do not meet the criteria for this can be obtained in general. That is why, of course, there is also an economy associated with it, as well as there is a risk associated with it. In Denmark we do not currently have experience of risk-sharing in the pharmaceutical subsidy system, but there is no doubt that we in the government hope that the experimental scheme will allow us to gain that experience. Therefore, a relatively short trial period has also been planned, which will also have to be evaluated before the end of 2021, and which is also proposed in the draft law, there is also the possibility of being able to extend the experimental scheme on a legal basis, depending on how we see it going. I also think it is important to say that this is a new area that we are entering, where it is also important that we have some experience, both on behalf of patients, but also in relation to the interaction with industry, when we are now launching a new grip on our pharmaceutical subsidy system, which is risk-sharing. Of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure, and I am also pleased with the positive support that the draft law has received.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222000	There is already a question now, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222005	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I have said in my rapporteur's speech that this is the right way to go, and I note that the Minister is now saying in his reply that we must draw some lessons from it. That is precisely why I am making it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party are worried that we will have too little experience when it comes to only two medicinal products which can be included in the experimental system. I have now read carefully what is in relation to the economic consequences for the state, the municipality and the region, and it is true, as the Minister says, that the only amount that appears here is an amount of 1.5 million. kr. Every year, which will go to the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Health Data Protection Agency in connection with processing applications for this. I would just like to say that if it is a question of assessing two or four preparations, I am at least convinced that once they do the setup, it will not cost twice as much to assess twice as many preparations. I just want to know whether the Minister will not enter into a dialogue with the rapporteurs to extend it from two to four, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222124	However, as can also be seen from page 13 of the draft law, where we are over in the note section, the estimate will be associated with some uncertainty, both in relation to this estimate, which is above how many patients will be included, but also subsequently if the sale of the medicinal product, including parallel imports, exceeds that assumed. Then the company will repay the public additional cost of the medical allowance in full. There's a risk-sharing in it. But that does not change the fact that the first calculation, i.e. how many patients you would think would have received the grant on the basis, i.e. how many patients you would have thought would have received the grant on the basis. What you do the basic calculation is related to an estimate. That's why it's good to get some experience before you scale on this. That's why we set up to start with two. We believe that this can be kept within the framework of the administrative economy, with the agreement made with the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party on the growth plan for life science, but there is also a legal basis for opening up further. Of course, when we have chosen to say that this is important, it is also on the basis of what the rapporteur himself said. Backwards, we can look at seven preparations back from 2009, but in the future we can also see the need for us to have a sense of how difficult or how easy it is and whether we are hitting properly as an authority and also in terms of health economics. Otherwise, there may be socio-economic consequences associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222251	I did not really get an answer as to whether the Minister will enter into a discussion with the rapporteurs on this, but I hope so. Otherwise, I do not think you are sending the right signal, either to patients or to industry in Denmark. Because when you read the hearing answers, there are a lot of people who make it clear that it is too narrow with two. But in relation to the economy, it is the 1.5 million. kr. is for the administrative part of it, and then it says further down: the cost of medical supplements to the regions can in principle increase to a certain extent. Then it says on the next page: "However, there is no question that more patients will be entitled to the grant, as the same patients would have the opportunity to receive single grants for the medicine in question. I would like to hear the Minister: isn't the only issue in this area of economics, according to what it says here, a question of whether it will cost more to manage four products than two?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222355	I think that, from the very beginning, I said why we have designed it this way, and if you look at the consultation note, you can also see that, in essence, we are taking it down positively that there is a desire to expand it. Despite the fact that there is no historical basis for saying that it could be more than two preparations, we are in fact taking it down positively in the consultation note in relation to that legal basis in the draft law. I also have to say the same thing as was said by the rapporteur of the Left, namely that there may be costs associated with what must then be provided for in those parties that want to enlarge it. For the estimates underlying the bill are based on the growth plan for life science, which was concluded a political agreement between the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. And the assessment is that it is the economy that is connected with two. I therefore agree that, once experience has been gained, it will probably be cheaper to scale. This does not change the fact that it is a new instrument and that we need to have experience with it, including as far as the authorities are concerned, as well as having to deal with risk-sharing in our medical allowance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222453	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222454	I took the liberty of being a little overt from the platform when I had the floor myself, and I would just like to ask the Minister whether there have already been statements from industry. I do not know whether the Minister can give any information about this at all, but are there any indications of any areas where it might be interesting? Has anyone invited in already and said that it might be interesting to cooperate here, or does the Minister know now whether there might be certain treatments that are being opened up for now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222517	Well, I think that, even when we made the proposal as part of the life science growth plan, it was taken very positively both by the pharmaceutical industry association LIF, but also by some of the individual producers as well as by some of the patient organisations, who could see some opportunities also for their patient groups for new innovative means to enter the market more easily. But there is also the fact that the individual patient is with his or her doctor and that the doctor does not have the application process, which everything else is equal in applying for single supplements. So there is also a debureaucratisation in relation to that. We have not yet opened up to it, so I cannot say that in this way, but our clear assessment is that there will be an interest in it. If you look at the consultation answers, you will see that there is also something that indicates that there will be an interest in addition to the two preparations which have now been set up as a starting point, and there is also the legal basis in the draft law to be able to open up further. Then I would point out that there may be an economy associated with this, with which I also hope that those parties that have indicated that they have an interest in this are setting up to take part in the promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222615	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else seems to have asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222640	The negotiations have been opened, and the first is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009222703	Thank you for that, President. I have to make up for an oversight with a very bad conscience, because I suddenly realised that, for my good colleague Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left, during the previous four legislative proposals, I had promised to say that the Radical Left has the same position as I, as the Socialist rapporteur, have expressed. Suddenly I thought we were so few parties in the Chamber, and then I had to check a text from Mrs Lotte Rod that she had sent to me a few days ago. So I hope that the position of the Radical Left has now been noted by the Secretaries. Then I would like to say straight away that in the fifth legislative proposal here too, the Radical Left is voting in the same way as the Social Democrat Party. The legislative proposal we are dealing with here is, in fact, a very serious issue and a structure in our society, because it is very much a question of ensuring that we have a structure for control and sanctions where a law or several laws are violated. After all, it is the government that wants to reschedule which bodies are to ensure the on-going inspection and control of the retail trade on over-the-counter medicines, but also on tobacco and alcohol. We in the Socialist Group believe that this is an area which needs to be optimised and improved, both on the control side and on the sanction side. When we sat in government and we revised the Smoking Act back in 2012, we took the bull by the horns in relation to the sanction section. There we doubled the fines, and now the present bourgeois government is doing the same. What is just a little bit funny in this context is that when we did it in 2012, no bourgeois parties voted for the change of the sanction. The Social Democrats are now voting for a further increase in sanctions, and what is in the bill here is that the fine will be DKK 10,000. The first time a retailer is caught not complying with the law on the sale of tobacco and alcohol, according to the age limits we have, the second time 20,000 kroner. and the third time 40,000 kroner. We are also very pleased that further work needs to be done to ensure that additional sanctions can also be imposed if we do so repeatedly, and this may be a matter of depriving the retail trade of the right to sell tobacco and alcohol. What we have reported from the Socialist side is a complete runaway, and it is good that something is going to happen in this area. When it comes to the structure, in relation to who's gonna do these outreach inspections, the government is gonna move it over to the Security Authority. The Security Authority, which already controls our solariums, and which is based in Esbjerg, must have this function. It could be so good, I think, although we on the Socialist side have made a completely different proposal. We have come up with the proposal that this body should be located in the Ministry of Health in one of the offices of the Ministry of Health, a structure under the Ministry of Health, rather than in the Department of Safety. And why do we think that in the Social Democracy? We do so because we believe that the people who sit in the Ministry of Health about someone understand the seriousness of the sale of tobacco to children and young people under the age of 18, that the Ministry of Health understands the seriousness of the sale of alcohol to young people under the age limits we have. We have said from the Socialist side that we are willing to spend 20 million. kr. on a year-by-year basis at a truly effective inspection body, because we have recognised the great need, because tobacco is a killer in the health of children and young people, and that we have a retail trade which unfortunately does not comply with the law to a large extent. This can be seen clearly from the fact that in 2017 there were only two fines for the retail trade. The government has only added 0.7 years' work to the Security Council to carry out the big, new tasks that are, in relation to tobacco and alcohol, and we think that is what we propose as a tailor somewhere. But I have to say that there are positive elements to this. This is a step in the right direction, and that is why, as a starting point for the third reading, we are going to engage constructively in this. If we can make some improvements, we'd like it, but we're positive about something happening in this area. Our ambitions are higher, but let us look at them towards third reading. Then I say this one more time: the Radical Left has the same opinion on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009223226	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009223232	Thank you. I would like to start by commending the young people, because we can see that there is a decrease in the number of young people under 18 who smoke. Previously, it was as low as 11 years of age as they started smoking and drinking. There has actually been a huge decline. There has been such a decline that when we talk about young people smoking a lot, we need studies ranging from 17 to 24 years, otherwise it does not look as if there is an increase. So I would like to commend the young people, our primary school students: you have taken some health measures that we could have learned from when we were young, because I think you are doing better than we did ourselves. Smoking is one of the things we discuss most in this Parliament. Some may think that it is because you are against everything and we are accused of, I do not know what, for example. That it's our fault if people die in the future. But we simply do not believe in some of the proposals that some make. At the same time, we also believe that if you are an adult, we should not decide on the part of the state what you want and what you need. Maybe some people have bigger problems than just smoking. But the law must be observed, and that means, of course, that we must ensure that there are no young people who can go in and buy it. So, of course, we also support the proposal that it should now be transferred to the National Security Agency; that some more visits should be made. But I would also like to say that if we are to do something in this area, perhaps we should also look at some of the things that exist in relation to teaching some of the young people. It is often the case that when we hear about all the proposals made by the Social Democrats in particular, we always look towards Norway. In the Danish People's Party we also look a lot at Norway, but Norway did a lot of things at once. The education given by Norway to young people is actually something they have had for 20 years. Well, that's a long, cool move. Many of the things you keep coming from several parties are not something that costs anything. So you want to put taxes on and impose bans and hit people in the head because they can't stop smoking or because they're addicted, instead of trying to get into some of the things that make people smoke. In Norway, they have this teaching that they have been doing for 20 years, where the young people have to take responsibility for their health. This means that we are talking about smoking, alcohol, drugs and other things. They learn to resist peer pressure, and in this way they are better dressed than some of the young people in whom we see falling today. Because where we see an increase is actually when they come out of primary school and have to go into a youth environment instead. We are pleased that it has not been a completely tighter package that the Minister sets up in relation to it. We think it is fine to increase the amount of fines for selling tobacco to young people. Of course, we do not want to go so far as to sanction the closure of small shops. This would affect some of our elderly people who live in sparsely populated areas, but we agree that, of course, penalties must be imposed when something happens, and it is the holder who is responsible for the business. So in the Danish People's Party we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009223634	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009223646	Thank you, President. The bill here is almost like a Kinderæg with three in one: The Danish Medicines Agency's permissions to sell over-the-counter drugs are moved to the Danish Security Agency and from Copenhagen to Esbjerg as part of Better Balance II, which of course relocates state jobs from Copenhagen and creates a Denmark in better balance; enforcement of the ban on the sale of alcohol and tobacco to the 16-18-year-olds is strengthened by giving the Danish Safety Authority an additional control task; and the fines for infringements of the legislation on sales to minors are doubled to DKK 10,000, DKK 20,000 respectively. and 40,000 kroner. Hundreds of people die each year from smoking, and even more people live many years of severe diseases caused by smoking. Smoking can be a problem for the individual, but also for society. Fortunately, many of us agree with that. Although it is generally going the right way and less smoking today than in the past, too many young people smoke. That development is alarming and worrying. We must act now. We in the Left are very ambitious as far as our young people are concerned. Indeed, so ambitious that with the launch of the Cancer Plan IV, we launched the goal of having the first smoke-free generation by 2030, and it seems that a broad majority in this Parliament, a number of interest groups and patient associations share that ambition. Both I and we in the Left are pleased that we can come together to take initiatives to help achieve the 2030 objective. If we are to make a difference, it is not the time for one-sided political positioning, because there is no simple solution to the challenges posed by tobacco, either in terms of health, for the individual or from a social perspective, especially in view of the fact that tobacco is not illegal, either in Denmark or in other countries, but that is why we can have an ambition to reduce consumption. A broad majority in the Danish Parliament agreed to change the design of the cigarette packages so that the warning images became larger and refer to the Stopline. It's turned out to make a difference that actually matters. 40 per cent as a whole. now know about the Stopline phone numbers through the cigarette packages design. While it is important to support smoking cessation, efforts are also needed to push a cultural change. The first cigarette is the most dangerous. If we are to avoid young people having the idea of turning on a cigarette at all, one effort cannot stand alone. The government has entered into a partnership agreement with the retail trade, so that cashiers are better equipped and more demand for identification. I must honestly admit that I am surprised that it is even necessary for us to have a discussion with the retail trade about complying with the Danish law in force, which says that no young person under the age of 18 must buy cigarettes. Rice and praise for the retail trade. In any case, we must pay tribute to the fact that several shops of their own motion have moved cigarettes away from the counter so that they are no longer visible. It is a strong signal and a priority pointing in the right direction. But there are also other players. The fight against cancer and the exit programme show that cooperation with municipalities and focus on education for children and parents about smoking actually makes a difference. The claim is that the number of pupils starting to smoke could be halved if all elements of the exit programmes were included. That's thought-provoking. It is also thought-provoking that the YouTube campaign we have launched under the heading of the rate pool, targeted at young people in vocational schools, seems to have a positive effect. Despite several good initiatives which point in different ways in the right direction, we are now tightening, if I may say so, the screw. A doubling of the penalty for selling alcohol and tobacco to minors and new tasks to the Security Board will assist the police in enforcing the existing legislation, and this is another step that is pointing in the right direction in relation to a smoke-free generation by 2030. Later on, legislation on a new traceability system for tobacco follows, and I would like to emphasise from the Left that I hope that this bill will allow the retail trade to be denied the right to market tobacco if the legislation is repeatedly violated. We must and must ensure that young people do not buy tobacco or alcohol for that matter until they are old enough. As I mentioned earlier, we all have a responsibility: schools, parents, the retail trade and, of course, also us at Christiansborg. No one can do the job alone. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224131	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224134	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that I think it was a little tricky to get the seriousness to be sharp in relation to the harmful effects of tobacco, because the rapporteur said that hundreds of citizens die every year. Yeah, that's right. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that thousands of Danish citizens die every year as a result of smoking? 13,600 is the last official number. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224205	Well, I can at least confirm that it's thousands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224212	When the rapporteur says that the design of the tobacco packages was changed to increase warnings and bigger pictures, can the rapporteur confirm as clearly as before that Denmark introduced the minimum requirements that could be allowed to introduce the tobacco product directive, and that Denmark did not go beyond what was required and what was required?
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224247-2	I can confirm in every way that we had a good and pervasive dialogue in the rapporteur's circle, and I can also confirm that in the dialogue where there were several models at play, we had an ambition to reach each other broadly politically. And that is what we did with the legislative proposal that was put forward and, as far as I remember, all the parties backed up, but the rapporteur probably knows that better than I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224317	Thank you very much to Mrs Jane Heitmann and welcome to Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224325	Thank you. Tonight's last proposal and the third of five, where there is something we like and something we do not like. We can support the bill's part to move control of the sale of tobacco and alcohol to minors from the police to the Security Council. It has been revealed many times by Danish media that there is a daily breach, I believe, of the law that applies in relation to the fact that tobacco and alcohol are not to be sold to minors and that there is virtually no control over the age limits that apply. And that's why we support that the Security Authority gets the job, hoping that this control task will be lifted better. We think it is good that the Security Authority is given an opportunity to carry out the checks anonymously and we believe that this is necessary in order to obtain effective control. I'm worried that control will be strong enough. So, if it is rare that there is a risk that you will be discovered if you violate the law, then there is a likelihood that what we have seen so far will continue, and so we would very much like to ask how many inspections you are actually expecting a year as a result of this transfer to the Security Authority. After all, the content of the draft law is to double the fines that apply when you violate the rules. We think that is good too. We believe that there is a need for sanctions to be taken and felt. That is also why we ourselves have proposed stricter sanctions in the past. I understand that there will be a legislative proposal later in this session which will introduce the possibility of being completely denied the possibility of being able to sell tobacco in the event of repeated violations of the law. We think that is also sensible. This was one of the proposals we had in the question debate we had in the spring on tobacco. It is certainly no secret that we want more attention to be paid to preventing young people from starting to smoke at all. We are still lacking, I think, a comprehensive action plan to achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. It is, as Mrs Jane Heitmann said, a very ambitious objective, but we lack a systematic approach, and we need all the various tools that could contribute to that objective to be used. And it is good to look at Mrs Liselott Blixt's proposal from Norway with more systematic education, but we also know that there are many other proposals of a more structural nature that have an effect. It is acting, for example. on tobacco prices; it is about introducing genuinely neutral tobacco packages; it is about ensuring that tobacco is not visible in shops. I still hope that the Minister will have such a talk with all the parties of the Folketing and that we can bring it forward. This has been going on in the past, but it has come to a halt, and I am sorry, because I actually have the feeling that we are beginning to get closer to each other a little over the past, and I think we can make a huge difference to public health, not least for the children and young people who are growing up right now. The second part of the bill is to move the control of the sale of over-the-counter medicines in the retail trade from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, and we cannot directly support that part, not least because the bill envisages a substantial reduction in the number of inspections to be carried out, despite the fact that, as the draft law also states, it is in fact a control which finds quite a lot of errors. It is not unnecessary inspections that are being carried out today. I think it is strange that two parallel systems for the control of over-the-counter medicines will be set up, because the Agency will have to continue to monitor over-the-counter medicines in pharmacies. So you have to have the same skills in two different places. In fact, I cannot really read anywhere, I think, a professional justification for moving this part of the control. It may be that someone can tell me about it, but I am certainly not convinced about this part of the bill. That is why, for the third time today, I propose that the legislative proposal be divided into two. And then it's a good thing that the three strikes and you are out doesn't apply in this area. But if we can divide it up, the Minister can easily count the votes of the Enhedslisten in relation to the first part on the control of the sale of tobacco and alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224824	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224831	Thank you. This is a proposal that moves the supervision of the sale of over-the-counter medicine from the Danish Medicines Agency in Copenhagen to the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg. At the same time, the enforcement of age limits for the sale of alcohol and tobacco will be strengthened. Among other things, it has to be done. This is done by allowing anonymous control to be carried out. We think these things are quite unproblematic. The legislation in force and the age limits that we decide in here must, of course, be respected, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224908	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009224915	In the alternative, we think it is excellent that time and again we are doing everything we can here in the Folketing to ensure that fewer children and young people start smoking. If it were up to us, we should go in and do something serious about prices. It should not necessarily be because we must always look to Norway, as was mentioned earlier in the debate, but there has been strong evidence that it really helps to raise prices significantly when it comes to restricting the consumption of cigarettes by children and young people. So that is what we would have liked to have been included in such a proposal, but it will certainly come later when we have all been even more informed about the positive consequences of introducing such a proposal. In relation to this proposal, I am aware that it is the control effort that will be strengthened in various ways. We are very much in favour of this. Normally we're not that big a follower of punishment... it's supposed to be the preventive thing we're going in and strengthening... but in this area, we're positive about increasing the amount of fines. Then you could go in there and look at where it is you have to start with this control effort, for example. around schools where there are kiosks and other places where you can buy cigarettes. If there are limited resources and there is always a need to start places where there is a whole natural flow of children and young people. Otherwise, we should just welcome the fact that in committee we are considering the fact that, as some of the consultative parties have said, we might be able to include such a completely sealed ID check during a start-up period. It's not in the bill right now. But I find it difficult to see what would prevent the fact that it was actually required for a period of time to ask for ID when buying cigarettes. Because otherwise it's almost impossible. We can do enough from in here, but it's hard to believe that it's gonna be a real blow unless you introduce it. It is a bit of a hassle, it will also be for businessmen, but we would certainly like to include it in the committee's proceedings. Again, we are very much in favour of the legislative proposal, and we can also count on our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225131	Thank you, sir. René Gade and welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225140	Thank you. In SF we are very concerned about the culture of alcohol and tobacco among Danish young people. Many young people under the age of 18 drink more than they should, have relatively easy to buy alcohol in stores, which they are not old enough to buy, and then the alcohol onset of young people falls on average at a very early age. That is why, in the SF, we also want better enforcement of age limits for the sale of alcohol and tobacco to young people under 18 years of age. The SF wants to protect young people from starting to smoke and therefore from the harmful consequences of smoking and alcohol. Therefore, the SF also supports the proposal that the amount of the fine should be increased in the event of a breach of the law. Greater sanctions for infringement of the age limit will hopefully lead dealers to comply with the law, which will make it more difficult for young people to buy alcohol and tobacco. In this way, we can hopefully contribute to the objective of a smoke-free generation 2030. In relation to the bill, SF does not directly support the fact that the supervision of negotiating points or the supervision of compliance with the prohibition on the sale of alcohol and tobacco to young people under 16 and 18 years of age are moved from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg. It is important for SF that the control of medicinal products is carried out by the board with the greatest expertise in the field, and we believe that the Danish Medicines Agency does. That is why we also believe that the Danish Medicines Agency should maintain supervision, as a division of tasks within the two agencies can lead to confusion and discommunication, and we think this is unnecessary. In order for it to make sense to divide the tasks into the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Safety Authority, it will require both agencies to have comprehensive pharmaceutical knowledge, which will require further training in both agencies, and why not just retain the task at the Danish Medicines Agency. In order to ensure the best possible control in relation to the sale of alcohol and tobacco and the largest medical knowledge, we therefore recommend that the Danish Medicines Agency should continue to carry out the task of supervision, with the possibility of further sanctions in breach of the law on the age limit, and therefore we do not simply support the proposal to move the supervisory task from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The point is, in principle, the same as that expressed by the Social Democratic Party, namely that supervision is a health issue. I therefore hope that there will also be room for further discussions on further strengthening supervision until the third reading of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225432	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225440	Thank you so much. Well, I saw that mr. René Gade, who was up here before, could get the speaker desk up and down. I don't know how to do that. Okay, you do it here. That was really smart. Thank you. That's it. The draft law we are now discussing here contains, among other things, the following: a transfer of supervision of dealers authorised by the Danish Medicines Agency for the sale of over-the-counter medicines. It must be moved from the Danish Medicines Agency in Copenhagen to the Danish Safety Agency in Esbjerg, but it also strengthens enforcement of the ban on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to persons under 16 and 18 years of age respectively. The last thing we do is to provide supervision with an additional control task, following on from the control activities already carried out by the Board in the field of tobacco. At the same time, however, we provide for the possibility of carrying out inspections without showing identification, so that the checks are carried out as anonymous checks. We think that's really good. We think that the fact that we have to enter and legitimise ourselves first and then check is perhaps not a lot of control. Here we can come unannounced and without legitimising ourselves and carrying out the checks to be carried out. At the same time, the proposal provides for a doubling of the fines for infringements of the ban on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to minors. That's really good, too. The transfer of the inspection mission from Copenhagen to Esbjerg is part of the negotiations on better balance II. We support this. And with an additional control task in the sale of alcohol to people under the age of 18 and a doubling of the fine, we look forward to smoking among young people being significantly lower than today and young people getting a sensible relationship with alcohol. There is no doubt that this cannot stand alone. Several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. One of the best ways to do this, and we will have to discuss this in other contexts, is, of course, the price of tobacco. Conservatives would like to see a marked increase in the price of tobacco; it could be about 60 kroner. We know that for young people who may not have that much money, it will hurt a lot if they suddenly have to pay 60 kroner. for a package of tobacco. And I've heard young people say they probably wouldn't have started. Conservatives fully support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225659	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund, and welcome to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009225709	Thank you for your comments. The aim of the government is to achieve a better balance between Denmark and Denmark. This also means that the jobs of the state must be widely distributed in Denmark and that we must benefit from the competences and professional environments that exist throughout the country. There was the background for better balance in which we relocated around 4,000 government jobs to the whole country. This is the reason for better balance sheet II, where we are again taking the initiative to relocate in the order of 4,000 government jobs to the whole country. As part of Better Balance II, the government wishes to bring together a number of product safety regulation and oversight services, which are currently spread across several institutions by ministries, in one market surveillance centre at the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg. It is essential, when we talk about Denmark in a better balance, that we not only talk about it, but that we also act on the basis of it, so that we bring together the supervision precisely so that we can ensure a quality, coordination across supervisory tasks, just as in the end we will also reduce the burdens on the shops that are supervised, because we have coordinated supervision, where we also use resources together and reach longer. As part of Better Balance II, the government also wants to strengthen enforcement of the rules on age limits in stores. This means that we are providing additional competence for the enforcement that is currently exclusively with the police, and the additional enforcement competence we are also placing on the Security Board in Esbjerg. We just have to note that the enforcement of the rules on age limits has simply not been strong enough. Several of the rapporteurs have also pointed out that, if you did not know in advance, the series of articles published by the Politiken revealed it, at least to a large extent. Too many young people have too easy to buy tobacco, and one can say that it could be because the legislation was unclear, but it is not. Danish legislation is very clear and clear: tobacco cannot be sold to children and young people under 18 years of age. I also hear that we all agree in the House that we must make it easy for young people to opt out of cigarettes and alcohol, and the more ways we can help them along the way, the better. It is about control, but it is also very much about culture and cultural change, both in the community of young people, but also in the shops in relation to the sale of tobacco and asking for identification when someone wants to buy tobacco. It is the sole responsibility of dealers not to sell tobacco and alcohol to minors. Danish legislation is very clear. That is why I am also pleased that the bill strengthens the control of age limits in shops, and with the bill we are also sending a strong signal to shops and dealers that it is not a free round to violate the ban on selling tobacco and alcohol to minors. They can risk both control and now stricter enforcement, including possible anonymous controls and also large fines if they are caught selling to children and young people under the age of 18. There is also a link between the bill we are discussing today and the bill on the track and trace system for the whole of the tobacco sector, which the government is putting forward a little later at the meeting, where we are also calling for a further tightening of sanctions, in relation to the fact that, in addition to the three infringements, the Security Agency can also, in the event of repeated infringements, impose a quarantine and thus a sales ban on the retail shops involved. Of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may be in the committee, but I hope that there will also be support for the part that is about ensuring a better balance for Denmark, where this bill is part of ensuring that state jobs are concentrated and assembled in several places in the country outside the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230109	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230113	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the structure that now exists and the resources that remain within the Security Council and the supply of the 0.7-year work to the new tasks in the field of tobacco and alcohol are expressing the Government's ambition in relation to the muscle and the real risk that will have to be for the retail trade if they violate the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230141	But this is an element we have discussed several times, both in consultation and, I think, in other contexts. We have considered from the government that we will thus gain more control over the money by placing the additional enforcement competence with the Security Authority in Esbjerg than we would have obtained by setting up an independent office elsewhere. And the 0.7-year work must be counted on top of the annual work already in the Danish Security Agency, and seen in the light of the fact that the Danish Safety Authority is now carrying out more than a thousand controls in the retail trade, where one of the elements they will then look at in the future is also the age limit for the sale of alcohol and tobacco when they are already in the retail trade. That is why I do not agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that this can be an isolated, narrow discussion about the exact number of years' work. It is a matter of using resources wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230235	Now I asked the Minister whether it was an expression of the government's real ambition to be placed here. I did not get an answer to that, but the Minister will have another opportunity to give an answer. For one thing, at least, is certain: if you listen to what the National Police have said, they are the ones who have had the task so far, they say that precisely if you are going to introduce anonymous controls, as they have recommended, and which they say is really necessary in order to be able to seize the retail trade in violating the law, then it will require quite a lot of resources to do control in this way. That is why I think it is rather a pity that the government does not express a higher level of ambition and find more resources for this, considering, as the Minister has just said, that we will later discuss those opportunities politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230330	Well, it's not like we're depriving the police of jurisdiction or opportunity. This is an additional competence, which is added to the current control system, because we know very well that the resources of the police are not unwieldy. That is why, in the end, this is also a resource discussion, and we in the government have estimated that we will get more for the money by putting the additional control function at the Danish Security Agency, which is already out to carry out more than a thousand controls in the retail trade every year, and where this will then be an element that comes on top of it. They will then also have the opportunity to carry out the checks anonymously with the bill, so there is also the possibility that this is the case, just as the questioner himself points out, and that this has been some of the things that the National Police have previously pointed out could be necessary in order to reveal more clearly when there are infringements of the sales ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230417	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is not, and then the negotiations are concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, this is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181009230435	There is nothing more to be done today in this meeting, apart from saying a thousand thanks for a very long and very thorough day in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 October 2018 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
