ParlaMint-DK_20180123130007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130016	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 28 by Karin Gaardsted (S), Marcus Knuth (V), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond, (UFG) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 77 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 28 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 27 by Mr Søren Espersen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 29 of Magni Arge (T) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130144	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 25 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). The vote is over. In favour, 72 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 25 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 24 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 26 of Finn Sørensen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130303	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 30 by Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Nick Hækkerup (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 30 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130410	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. We have a treatment. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130518	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130535	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130552	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130609	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in A [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning (Prevention of flood or erosion damage]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130644	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130701	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130721	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130753	The amendments to L 116 will be put to the vote first. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. No amendments have been tabled to L 117. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130821	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130849	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123130925	Thank you. L 121 is certainly part of the implementation of the economic policy agreement concluded in the autumn, and I am sure that the parties behind that agreement will also go deeper into the context. There are a number of different proposals: a reduced tax on electricity and water for campsites and marinas, a reduction in the tax on spirits for small distilleries and for start-ups, an exemption from taxes on the gas of lighters imported. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, we think that these initiatives can each be good and sympathetic. It is good to do something for tourism, it is good to ensure that some small businesses are helped, and it is also very wise, as in the case of lighter gas, to ask themselves whether the problem of levying the tax is in line with the income you receive. In a sense, we can support this hand-out in various areas, but it is important for me to say that when we support the reorganisation of taxes, this is not the same as supporting the funding that has been found. We have also seen several times under this government that we want to finance some of these things through savings on, for example, employment efforts. We would also have liked to see this discussion on better business relations aimed at an even wider agreement, perhaps even having an even higher level of ambition in relation to some of the proposals we have had, for a relaxation and better deduction for, for example, investment in research and development. After all, it is a question of making sure that we increase productivity and that we create more jobs at home. However, we can support individual initiatives without saying, however, that we support the direction taken by the government and the parties to the agreement in relation to the financing of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131140	Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't think there are any comments... No, there isn't. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131150	As has been mentioned, this bill is the implementation of the business agreement concluded last autumn, an agreement between the Government, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. That is why I can already tell you that we in the Danish People's Party naturally support the bill. In our opinion, the proposal has been made on the basis of a very fine agreement, and people sometimes forget that, when you see the controversy that has been over the last few months, we can therefore make agreements in the Folketing. But we actually think it's a really nice deal we made around, for example. tax relief in the industrial sector. It was an agreement which contains a number of different elements: easier access to capital for entrepreneurs, measures in the field of tourism, a reduction in the electricity tax, a number of initiatives to reduce cross-border trade and also something about tax relief. So it was a wide range of good initiatives that were included in that agreement. And then there is this bill which deals with some of the measures in the field of tourism and something about tax relief. First, tourism, where there is a relaxation of the tax on electricity and water for campsites and marinas, which obviously benefit tourism, but also help to benefit our rural areas. It is the case that Danish campsites are in competition with foreign campsites, and when you know that much will increase by up to 4%. For the next few years, it is also obvious that we are strengthening Danish tourism so that it can take its share of the market and help create jobs for Denmark. Another initiative in the legislative proposal is that we will reduce the excise duty on small producers, on small distilleries, correspondingly the way and regime that exists today for those who brew beer, namely that they can get a lighter tax if they produce under a certain amount of alcohol. This is about making something similar for the distilleries, that is to say, schemes that might benefit companies that you know, for example. Stauning whisky, which is a success story and is so big today that they are not under the scheme. However, we would like to help support local production around, often typically in rural areas, so that this production can be boosted and a foothold established on the market. Then there is the final part, which is the reorganisation of taxes, in other words, where we clean up various measures. What is included in this bill is the removal of the tax on disposable lighters. It is the case that one penny per penny is charged. lighter, and that means that it actually costs more to manage the scheme than it does to get into taxes. That is why we think it makes sense to have that tax removed when it is not really something that is of great importance. So, to sum up, we think that this is a very good proposal, which translates part of the business agreement that we are part of, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131438	Thank you. There are no comments or comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131450	Thank you so much. We in the Left are very much looking forward to adopting, hopefully, this bill, which the two previous speakers also mentioned, is part of the business and entrepreneurial package. This part deals with some of the tourism objectives included in the package, namely the easing of the electricity tax for campsites and pleasure boat ports and the relaxation of the water tax for campsites and marinas, which we hope will help to attract more tourists to Denmark, and that the Danish campsites and marinas will become more competitive compared to abroad. So we hope that we can help it, and we think that is really, really positive. In addition, we are also setting up a moderation scheme in the case of alcohol producers, so that we give the smaller spirits producers we have a dawning undergrowth of small alcohol producers in Denmark, who produce all sorts of things differently, for example. gin and whiskey to help them get to work better. That's why we're putting up with this moderation scheme so that they pay a lower tax. Finally, as others have also mentioned, we are also calling for the removal of a tax on gas contained in lighters on imports. Today it is 1 cent per penny. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all One can imagine that the cost of collecting one ear exceeds what one gets in, so it makes real sense to simplify here. As I have said, this is the second round of tax reductions resulting from the business and entrepreneurial package. All in all, it is some very good tax reductions that can help Denmark with some more growth measures, and we very much welcome this. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123131645	This bill is about different things. As regards reductions in the electricity tax and the water tax for caravans and marinas, it is basically the transfer of taxes to what is called business, where the tax rate is lower than for private users. It will then save a total of 25 million in this area. kr. We recognise that you are in a grey area here and that there may be good arguments in favour, as the bill says, of these parts being part of the overall performance of a quay or campsite. However, we are a little worried about whether this, for example, is going to happen. can have a negative environmental impact, and we are therefore skeptical as a starting point. We will perhaps pursue this in the discussion of the draft law in committee and perhaps ask some questions. Then we have the tax reduction for small producers of spirits and the adjustment of the moderation system for small beer producers. Small producers of spirits, distilleries, are currently paying full tax on their products, and a tax reduction for small producers of spirits, as well as a generally lower guarantee requirement for the payment of excise duty, will make small producers of spirits more equal to small beer producers, i.e. breweries. The aim of the beer moderation scheme, as we know it today, is to strengthen the competitiveness of small beer producers vis-à-vis the larger beer producers. This should also apply to small producers of spirit drinks. As a result, the tax will have to be reduced from 1 January 2018 and it is estimated to be less revenue of very small 5 million. kr. annual after retreat and behavior. I would say that this is not a central issue for us. However, it is of course about producers of products that are not so good in terms of health, and a tax credit... no matter how small it may be... we think everything else equal is a step in the wrong direction. Then we have the tax exemption for gas contained in lighters. This is a very small tax on gas for lighters. The amount should be less than 5 million. kr. a year. Again I would say that, in isolation, it is not something that matters from the state's financial point of view. We could probably support this proposal in isolation. Overall, this is, it has to be said, the least problematic parts of the business and entrepreneurial package. As I said, we could perhaps be persuaded to support some of the elements, but they are part of an overall package where, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, there is also funding that we very much disagree with. That is why I do not expect us to vote in favour of this bill. It is of course generally important, when we look at what we want to do, what initiatives we want to adopt in this House, that we not only look at what the money is to be used for, but also look at where the money comes from. And when, for example, you do... It is clear that some of the funding for the business entrepreneurship package comes from a reduction in employment efforts, that is a funding that we do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132001	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no comment, and then it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132013	Thank you. This is a good bill. It is both about tax reductions, but it is also about debureaucratisation. The bill relaxes taxes on electricity and water for campsites and marinas, and the bill also treats small producers of spirits with small beer producers fiscally, and finally abolishes the tax on the introduction of disposable lighters. For us, if the Danes are to have faith in the tax system, it must be transparent, and that must be understandable. We have far too many small, low-cost taxes in Denmark, which create a lot of bureaucracy and which reduce the disposable income of the Danes, and we need to clean them up, and that is taking a small step towards this bill, which we naturally support. Well, then I'd like to say, and that's for Mr. Knox. Rune Lund says that we think that the funding is very sensible, because it is not a question of reducing employment efforts, but of changing the reimbursement system so that the job centres are given an incentive to use the schemes that actually get unemployed into work so that they do not use all sorts of other less efficient schemes that are more expensive and that you only use because you get a different refund from the state, so that it is better to use more ineffective tools in relation to the available tools that they do not get into employment. So, of course, it makes sense to create proper incentives for job centres to use the tools that actually get the unemployed in employment so that there is not so much cash thinking in the job centres. So we can, of course, and of course we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a lot of noise in the Palace Square; we try to keep them quiet a little bit. But on the other hand, we really want to finish it out there, so maybe we'll live with it. Then it's mr. Anders Stjernholm, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132229	Thank you. Yeah, but the noise's no worse than in a bad comedy club, so it's gonna be okay. With this proposal, the government wants to abolish a number of taxes and reduce some burdens on business. In the alternative, we think the intention is good enough. We would like to join the rapporteurs from the Social Democratic Party and from the Enhedslisten when they say that funding is problematic. And then we cannot agree to the bill in spite of the good intentions. Overall, the reduction in electricity and water taxes is not in favour of climate and the environment, and we want a tax system that regulates people's climate and environmental impacts. And this bill, I think, removes the incentive for guests in campsites and marinas to consume climate and environment-friendly. We are happy to support tax reductions if they push in the right direction. We do not think this is the case here. No matter how small this bill may be, it's not the right course. With regard to the removal of the gas tax for lighters, I can say that, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has said, we might be able to talk about this bill in isolation, but with the others it is not going to go either, even though it is a small trivial matter. Then there is the relaxation of the tax for small alcohol producers. In other words, administratively speaking, this does not mean that a tax is being relaxed, otherwise it would have to be removed altogether. It seems that there will be some of the same inconvenience, regardless of whether the tax is lower. Nor can we agree with this, because this is also a matter of public health, so it is a matter of principle. And we know that alcohol is the cause of many hospitalizations, deaths and unhappy human fates, and that 5%. of all deaths here in Denmark are due to alcohol. And we do not want to contribute to this consumption of alcohol in Denmark by reducing taxes, even in the small ones. So, all in all, we cannot vote in favour of this bill, mainly because it does not go in relation to the environmental and social bottom lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132434	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132441	The Radical Left supports the bill, which is part of the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party and the governing parties. I would like to thank the four parties for their cooperation, also for bringing these proposals into the negotiations. These are proposals and a legislative proposal that will help create private jobs in our rural areas. The last week, of course, there has been a great deal of discussion about the distribution of state jobs. We are pleased that we are now also discussing how to create new private jobs. We already see that more and more tourists are coming to Denmark. There are many reasons for this, but among other things. we have some good destinations to be a tourist in, both in the cities and in the countryside. With this bill, we are making a tax relief for the country's campsites so that they can participate more in competition and development and make some interesting campsites that people will visit. We support that. Similarly, in the Radical Left too, we believe that our rural areas can create a great many jobs by making food production, alcohol production or beer production in the local area. There may be some experience economy in that. It may also be that you can start producing some things in Denmark that are otherwise produced abroad, and it can also help to strengthen for example. a tourism product, that you also have some locally produced goods. There we see a lot of small businesses making whiskey, gin or something else in Denmark, and now they get a helping hand by making it a little easier for them. That is why I also disagree with the rapporteurs who have said that it will increase the consumption of spirits. I think that it will mostly make it possible to buy some of the Danish-produced spirits from some small producers rather than buy from some large foreign companies. So I see it mostly as a helping hand to some small start-ups in our rural areas or in the cities here in Denmark. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132705	I can say very briefly that, despite the fact that there are elements in this proposal that we in the SF can support, overall we cannot support it. However, to mention the positive one, we, like several of my colleagues, think it is positive that small alcohol producers, who are often located in rural areas, should be helped. I have visited Stauning myself, and it is a sunshine story, what is going on there, and we would like to lend a helping hand to that. As my colleague from the DF also mentioned, there are some examples where you can simply see that the cost of the administration of taxes exceeds what you get into it, and here is the example of lighters. So both of us think we're actually a good thing. Then, like my colleague from the Alternative, we are more critical of reductions in electricity tax and water tax in relation to campsites and marinas. Of course it will be an outstretched hand, but we will have to do what we can to ensure that, both in the case of water and also in the case of electricity, we move towards ensuring the most efficient use of it at all times, and that is where we think this proposal is going in the wrong direction. Finally, if the funding had been different, maybe we could have said that okay, there are pros and cons of this proposal, and we would like to support it, but it is no secret that we have been very critical of the overall funding of this package. We think it is very skewed and therefore we cannot vote in favour of a proposal that is part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132908	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123132916	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to reduce a number of charges in connection with the implementation of the business and entrepreneurial package that the government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in November last year. In the Conservative People's Party, we think it is a very good agreement we have reached, and that is why, of course, we also think this is a very good legislative proposal. The bill strengthens the competitiveness of a number of Danish companies and it reduces some administrative trouble. The first thing I would like to highlight is the tax on gas in disposable lighters, which is a duty of one penny on a disposable lighter, i.e. one penny, and one can ask oneself: what is the purpose of this? It hardly affects the demand for disposable lighters, but it certainly gives a lot of administrative trouble both in the companies and in the authorities who have to check that the tax is then also levied correctly. The comments on the draft law show that the tax imposes a burden on industry of 4 million. kr. Every year, and that is, without it bringing any significant revenue to the state. That is why, of course, that tax has to go away, and we are doing so with the bill here. Another element of the bill is the relaxation of electricity and water in marinas and camping sites, a relaxation that is good for the development of one of our important growth industries: tourism. Tourism is, of course, a business that competes with the rest of the world, and that is why, of course, we in the Conservatives want to ensure that Danish companies are best equipped for international competition. Here, the tax reductions on electricity and water are a good step in the right direction. At the same time, it is true that marinas and campsites are often located in the outlying areas where it can be difficult to create jobs. That is why there is also a geographical balance in the proposal, which runs very well with the ambitions that we have, moreover, to create a better balance for Denmark. In addition, the proposal contains a proposal to reduce taxes so that small producers of spirits will have the same relief as has been given to microbrewers in the past and that the existing moderation system will be adjusted so that it can be achieved from the first year onwards, and of course we can also support that. So, with these comments, I would like to say that, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123133147	Thank you. And then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123133156	Thank you for the floor, President. I'd like to sign for the receipt of the bill. There are many rapporteurs who have examined the individual elements of the draft law, so I will not spend much time on that, but I am delighted that a substantial majority in the Folketing supports the initiatives. These are some initiatives that implement part of our business and entrepreneurial package, which, as I said, the government has made with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. There has not been much debate on the proposal, so I will not really sign up for the debate, but for the parties to have presented their views. Some rapporteurs have then said that these are minor initiatives, and that is quite right. There are a number of major initiatives that have been implemented before Christmas in relation to our business and entrepreneurial package, and in the near future a number of initiatives will be implemented as an entrepreneurial deduction and a number of other things. In fact, there has been a political desire among the parties that have negotiated to do more for the tourism industry in particular. That's a point of view, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær explained in his rapporteur's speech for the Danish People's Party, and this is a view shared by the government. What we are running into in relation to making selective reductions through the tax or tax system to promote particular industries is the EU's state aid rules. And in these two areas, electricity and water, we have succeeded in finding a model which, in the view of the Treasury, is EU-enabled, and we will continue to work to see whether there are other places where we can selectively improve the framework conditions for a profession that is challenged and does not have as good a framework conditions as it would like and which we as a country would like to attract tourists to go anywhere other than just to hotels in the capital and thus support rural development. There was so little discussion about the proposal for small producers of spirits that will strengthen their competitiveness through this new moderation scheme. In this context, I would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, for the creativity with which Enhedslisten · no matter how reasonable a tax relief or a tax reduction is · find a good argument to be against. And I find it very difficult to be against this relaxation of the tax on small alcohol producers. Theoretically, one can imagine that this will lead to more spirits being consumed by some, but it is most likely that instead of buying a bottle of foreign imported spirits one will buy a gin or a vodka or perhaps a brandy from a small Danish alcohol producer. And the aim of the proposal is to support the development that has been in the beer market with many microbreweries, to also get more microdistilleries that are well underway. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that a number of other parties can see advantages in that proposal. The last thing is this discussion about disposable lighters. And it is a tax which does not make much sense, but which is a good example of the fact that it makes good sense to review tax legislation every once in a while to look at how we administer it and whether revenue versus administrative expenditure is in line with each other. And 1 cent in butane tax on a lighter I think gives a total of less revenue of about 0.5 million. kr., and at least half a million disposable lighters are sold in Denmark. That tax does not make much sense, and we are removing it now. In the autumn there will be another legislative proposal with the second part of the reorganisation package, and the reorganisation committee, which I, as Minister of Taxation, have set up and which is supported by a broad majority in the Folketing and which has made their recommendations, says that they recommend a large number of changes to the legislation in relation to the abolition of small taxes. We have agreed this with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in the next session, where I will look forward to abolishing even more stupid and strange and historically conditional taxes, which in our modern Denmark do not make much sense anymore. But now we are taking the first small step.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123133634	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123133647	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123133702	Thank you, President. The draft law is the implementation of an EU directive that harmonises business secrecy legislation so that the rules are uniform across the EU. And with the implementation of the directive, it will be easier and simpler for Danish companies to operate in other EU countries, which is a good thing, as it will benefit innovation across EU borders. Transparency and uniform framework conditions for businesses across the EU are essential for continuing to have innovative companies that can also work at European level. Innovative ideas and new inventions are the root of healthy business and economic growth. It is therefore important that there are clear rules on the secrecy of such information. This will ensure that companies can make use of their own investments in, for example, small and mediumsized enterprises. research to the full, without employees or other persons involved being able to steal this information. And the Danish regulation with the protection of business secrets exists today in several different laws, so with this bill all regulation is now brought together in a single legislative text, and this will make it easier for companies to understand the legislation in force in this area, which of course the Social Democratic Party considers to be positive. As I said, the bill implements an EU directive from 2016. Today there are major differences between EU countries' rules on the protection of business secrets. Common European legislation on business secrets is therefore very good, as it will be easier for Danish companies to operate in other EU countries, and at the same time it will also be easier for European companies to operate in Denmark. This will benefit both Denmark and Europe and will ultimately help create more jobs. Of course, we in the Social Democratic Party also welcome this. As something new, the proposal provides a clear definition of what a business secret is quite concrete. The definition corresponds to the practice used in the past for the marketing law on business regulation, and therefore the draft law does not change the way we in Denmark understand business secrets. Business secrets can be know-how, market and business strategies and inventions. When we work with business legislation that regulates employees' rights and actions, it is of course important to listen also to the trade union movement and the employees' organisations. The LO and the FTF state in a joint hearing that the interests of employees are not closely implemented, as is the case in the other part of the draft law. In the Social Democratic Party, we are concerned both with good conditions for business, but also in good and fair conditions for employees. That is why we want to raise the issue of employees' interests in the committee procedure so that we can see whether it would not be more appropriate to write down employees' rights in this area in the legislative text itself. With these words, I would like to say that the Social Democracy cannot at this stage support the draft law as it stands. We would like to look at how employees' interests can be brought into the legislative text during the legislative process. So I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134002	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134011	Thank you. In previous debates here in the Folketing, we have been able to welcome the fact that changing governments have put forward completely new legislative proposals, which are not only changes to existing legislation but are therefore new laws. In the past, it has always been said that when a new law came into force, it should also be ensured that there was another law that was abolished, and in this respect, of course, I would like to hear the Minister for Business on what kind of law we can look forward to being abolished. It's as interesting as what we have here. 'Cause that's right, as Mr. Simpson did. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party says that it is a number of different elements that are now being brought together in one law, which should provide a greater legal overview of this with business secrets and possibly abuse of the business secrets of others. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are pleased that we will have improved legislation in this area. We also have a great interest in strengthening legal certainty for the many people who operate or are employed in Danish companies, which also includes knowledge about business secrets. So we can support the bill from the government, and it should be the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134124	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134135	As has been said, the proposal here implements an EU directive on the protection of business secrets and confidential know-how. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the protection of business secrets and to create a uniform framework for cross-border business within the European Union. The directive will be implemented as a new independent law, a collective law on existing Danish regulations in this area, so that we ensure that the protection of business secrets is in one place and thus also ensure clarity and a slightly easier availability of rules in this area. The proposal regulates in which cases the acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets constitutes, respectively, a lawful act, i.e. if it is an independent discovery, or an unlawful act, that is. What we know better as industrial espionage. As something new, the proposal also ensures that there is a clear definition of business secrets. The proposal also provides for the possibility of recourse to legal remedies in the event of unlawful acts, including injunctions, prohibitions and periodic penalty payments, in which case the proposal provides for a derogation guaranteeing the interests of workers, freedom of expression and the possibility of acting as whistleblower. The proposal also provides for compensation for infringements and for the publication of judgments on infringements on behalf of the injured party. That was the formal nature of it, because the political aspect of it is fundamental that secrecy of business information is absolutely central to companies, because it is large commercial values that can be associated with business secrets. If they are compromised, it can have major negative economic consequences and therefore a good framework for protecting business secrets is essential for companies to invest safely in research and development and innovation. If we do not have proper protection of business secrets, confidence in doing these things will be undermined, and it will thus put our society at a disadvantage if good ideas are not translated, because we cannot be sure that we can maintain the value needed to create them if the business secrets we have are compromised. It is therefore essential to make it clear that the disclosure of business secrets can have major negative economic consequences for companies, and hence also in a secondary form of society. The proposal provides companies with more transparent legislation and provides greater protection for business secrets. This is important because it creates healthy and positive growth conditions for Danish companies, both nationally and in a European context. Although the economy is doing quite well, it is therefore absolutely essential that the framework conditions for what we have to live on in the long term, namely innovation and research and development, are there and that, of course, there is also economic certainty that the discoveries we do and the inventions and the knowledge we create can also be reaped from by ourselves. As I have said, by implementing the Business Secrets Directive into a new and independent law, it will therefore also be easier for companies to have an overview of the rules of protection. This basically makes really good sense, and that is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134454	Thank you. I do not think the Enhedslisten is present. Then we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134516	I shall be very brief and say that we also support the bill. This is not a major change in the legal situation in Denmark, as we already have part of the legislation that the Business Confidentiality Directive is now implementing. When it is implemented, we have already had a lot of legislation in Danish law. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134546	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134552	We are also generally in favour of the draft law. We have a scepticism which has been somewhat addressed in the hearings, including from the Ministry, in relation to looking at this with openness, i.e. whether you are actually going to give companies a little too good opportunity to keep things that are not critical of business. They may be critical of business, but at the same time they may be critical of society if they are not transparent. So what we have emphasised is that we are looking at this whistleblower scheme, which has been criticised in the past in the directive, and we are focusing on creating a transparency that will, of course, give rights to IP rights holders and companies that have developed products and services that need to be protected to such an extent, but without being compromised by a lack of transparency. So we are positive about it, but we need to take a good look at it during the committee procedure and see that the sensible handling is also being followed up, as the answers said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134700	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134715	The former rapporteurs have explained the more technical content of this bill. This is a sensible legislative proposal implementing an EU directive. And the Radical Left can therefore support it immediately. However, we are also a little curious to hear what the justification is for not making such a textual interpretation of the directive in relation to the receiving areas, as Mr. Thomas Jensen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. But we are, as a starting point, positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134736	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134751	Big parts of this bill are really good. It is also in many areas a textual implementation of EU legislation, but there are parts of what I also heard my Socialist colleague ask about who wonders about us, and perhaps it is about the freedom of expression of public employees, whistleblower schemes and the like. We have had an ongoing discussion in Denmark about where the cut should be, and I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about that. So it is strange to be so close to EU legislation, and then just in one area you do not. We are a little concerned about this, so we will have to clarify this before we can finally say yes. But apart from that, it is very close to text; it does not say anything in itself, it could be good or bad. But I really think it is very sensible that in many areas there should be legislation on this, including in relation to whistleblowers, but also in relation to business secrets, so that one should be able to be sure that the knowledge that should be confidential when it should be confidential is also that. So we have only one appeal, and we, like the Socialists, will just try to find out what is behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134928	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123134936	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law aims to strengthen the protection of business secrets and create a more uniform framework for business across the EU. This is, of course, something that the Conservative People's Party is very positive about, and we are of course also positive about the draft law. Basically, it is really important for Danish companies that you have good legal opportunities to protect your business secrets, so that as a company you are motivated to be developing and innovative without risking competitors having access to the results. The draft law also provides a clearer definition of the whole concept of business secrecy. This will create more clarity and greater transparency, and therefore it will also help to strengthen the legal certainty of Danish companies in relation to business secrets cases. In addition, it is also important to note that the draft law also provides for clear rules in relation to the protection of business secrets, if, for example, there are: run a trial. The draft law also contributes to the implementation of the EU directive on the protection of confidential know-how and business information, which is also incorporated into the legislative proposal. This will also ensure that we have more uniform conditions in this area throughout the European Union, which, of course, we also regard as very positive. So with these comments, I just have to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135103	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135113	Thank you for your many positive comments. The whole point of departure is that business secrets are part of Danish companies' innovation capacity and development. This is because we in Denmark are mainly competitive on knowledge and not so much on the resources we have in the land, but that our companies make a living developing products based on newest technology and design, and that is why this particular area is essential and important for the development of companies. The knowledge generated in the context of enterprise innovation is typically of commercial value and can be kept secret in order to create competitive advantages. Business secrets can therefore be of great economic value to each company. The aim of the bill is to ensure the protection of business secrets and to create a uniform framework for business across the EU, and therefore the bill also brings together the Danish regulation in this area so that companies have a better basis for protecting their business secrets and a better overview of the legal area. The current diversity of rules in EU Member States makes it difficult for businesses to have an overview of how their business secrets are protected across the different EU countries. The bill implements the Directive on the protection of business secrets against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure, which must be implemented by 9 June 2018. The aim is that implementation will provide businesses with better tools to actively enforce the protection of their business secrets, and the directive implements textually in order to create a level playing field across the EU. In practice, there is not much change as a result of the draft law, but there are specific legal provisions in the draft law on what is a business secret and what constitutes a lawful and illegal acquisition. The draft law contains, among other things: as something new in Danish law a definition of the very concept of business secrets and what is considered to be an infringement. The definition corresponds to the previous Danish practice arising from the Marketing Act, since it must be information which is not generally available, which must have economic value and which is subject to a certain level of confidentiality and protection. This therefore means that companies will have clearer guidelines and tools for protecting their business secrets in Denmark and in the EU. The comments on the draft law, which several of the rapporteurs mentioned, have also met with support during the public consultation, and the implementation of the directive in the new main law is welcomed by many. Then the Socialist rapporteur was, sir. Thomas Jensen, also mentioned the rights of employees. If you look at Article 1 paragraph. 3 on rights already guaranteed by Community law on the free movement of workers is the assessment that it is sufficient for them to be dealt with in the comments on the legislative proposal, but I would like to clarify that during the committee procedure, if the Socialist rapporteur would like to have them. However, we believe that it is adequately secured. The same applies to whistleblowers, to which the SF rapporteur referred. The exceptions are included directly in the law in Section 5 to create a directive-by-law implementation, as the rapporteur mentioned, and to ensure a harmonised and uniform derogation for the scope of the law. But that does not mean that there is any material change to it, for example. The right to freedom of expression is already protected by the Constitution, so there is no change in it. But we can also discuss this at committee level in order to clarify it. But there is no change in it. In those words, I thank you for your comments on the proposal. As I just mentioned to both the Socialist rapporteur and the SF rapporteur, I am happy to take part in a dialogue on the clarification of some of the issues that have been raised and I look forward to a constructive debate during the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135507	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135512	Thank you to the Minister for his kindness. I would like to turn to the House that it seems rather striking that it is a very directive-by-law implementation that we are dealing with, but when it comes to the role and rights of employees, you do not have to include it in the paragraphs, but have changed it in the comments. Can the Minister himself not see that it looks a little strange and that you become suspicious when you read the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135545	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135549	I do not think there is any reason to be suspicious or worried. Because when what I mentioned is mentioned in the comments, it is because they are guaranteed in the fundamental rights of EU law. It's like the preamble that's for everything. It is, like when we make legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, which come exclusively from Danish law. So if it is something which is nevertheless guaranteed in the Danish constitution, it is not mentioned again in the legislative text itself, but presupposes it in the comments. That's the parallel you can make for this. However, I would, of course, like to elaborate on this during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135628	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135630	Thank you. We take the technique in committee. But, on the other hand, it can also be said that it would not be to the detriment of employees if the legal text itself showed that they have these rights. I also think that the LO and the FTF, who have written a consultation answer together, are very thorough and refer to various specific places where these things can be put in so that they think that their members are fairly treated according to the words of the directive. Let us take it during the committee procedure so that we can get it under control and get the bill as well as possible. Then we will have to consider our position at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135709	I'm looking forward to it. I'll answer all the questions that come up. And we can also take another round and look at LO's and FTF's concrete proposals. When Mr. Thomas Jensen sends his questions over, I will of course answer them immediately, and then we will see if we cannot get closer, because the understanding is the same, that the rights are there. The only question is, can I convince Mr. Knox? Thomas Jensen says that it is okay that it is in the comments, because the effect is completely the same. But we must have a dialogue on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135739	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135753	The debate is open, and that is the Minister first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123135818	The proposal provides for cheaper lending opportunities for housing and occupations in outlying areas. It is proposed to set up, for example: a special mortgage institution providing loans to the outermost regions to customers with a healthy economy who cannot obtain mortgage loans. The mortgage credit institution shall be able to offer fixed-rate loans with instalments and at a lower mortgage rate compared to normal mortgage lending. In addition, a contribution of, for example, 1 per cent should be provided for, says the comments. a year placed in a joint and several reserve fund to be repaid when the loan expires or is repaid. Our starting point from the government is that we are very concerned about a Denmark in balance. Our relocation plan from last week also showed that we want a Denmark where we have growth and development throughout Denmark. In the area of the Ministry of Industry, I myself have also taken the initiative of a committee for viable villages which examines the challenges and opportunities that exist in the villages. That committee is scheduled to come in the first quarter with a number of recommendations on how we can support the viability of the villages. However, there are a number of problems with the proposal we are discussing today, including in particular the possible solution to set up a special mortgage credit institution. Firstly, there are currently no restrictions on the ability of mortgage credit institutions to offer loans with lower lending limits. As there is currently no institute as proposed in the motion for a resolution, it is to be expected that the Foundation cannot be fully financed under market conditions. There will be losses and the State will therefore have to step in with equity capital, and this requires funding. Secondly, if the Foundation is to be established with the support of the State, a framework will have to be set up for the Foundation in the Finance Act. It may therefore be a quota system in which only a limited proportion of potential employees in the outermost regions will be able to obtain a loan. Thirdly, as I said, the Institute will have a loan book, we must assume that when they cannot obtain loans elsewhere, significant loss risks, despite the fact that the institution will have a lower loan limit than the other mortgage institutions, since the institution will turn to borrowers that private institutions do not want to serve. Fourthly, the Government's immediate assessment is that the proposed scheme would be in breach of the State aid rules. In conclusion, the government generally considers that the State should not intervene in private markets unless there are special circumstances to justify this. In view of the many factors I have already listed, the government does not believe that this is the right way to go on this issue, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140105	There is a comment or a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140111	The Minister and I have had occasion to discuss this at times, and I am also aware of the Minister's arguments. So let me first say that I also mention in my speech that I actually think the minister had a more moderate version of what the minister used to say, namely that it is state banks and almost communism etc., and then I usually sketch out the large number of state banks that we already have in our country: Growth Fund, Export Credit Fund, etc. Let it go for now. My specific question to the Minister is this: we have expressly stated that this should be addressed to customers who have a healthy economy. We are not interested in lending money to people both for their own sakes and for the sake of the state that cannot pay back. Does the Minister believe that it is the case today that if you just have a healthy economy, then you can also get a mortgage to your business or to your accommodation, no matter where you live?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140212-2	It can be said that the only real study that has been of that issue was when a Committee on the Financing of Housing and Commercial Property was set up in 2015. The Committee delivered its report in October 2015 and the Committee concluded that the background to the challenges in rural areas is non-financial. The Committee, which was, moreover, probably set up under an SR government, writes that there is therefore nothing in current financial legislation that would lead to excessive caution in relation to loans in rural areas. There is my basic premise that a well-functioning credit market will result in both acceptance and refusal of loan applications. Somebody's gotta get no if you don't think they can pay the money back. The refusal of those credit requests does not therefore necessarily mean that the market does not work. There is my approach to it that if you have a private market out there, where everyone in principle has the opportunity to borrow money, then, of course, it should also be possible for those credit institutions to be able to say no to people who want to borrow money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140331	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140334	Does the Minister think that we have a well-functioning market throughout Denmark in terms of the possibilities of obtaining mortgages?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140342	But again it is not so much what my feelings are and what I hear from stories, because of course I also hear stories, as the SF's rapporteur has probably heard, that there are areas in Denmark where it is harder to obtain loans than in other areas. But what I can relate to is the facts. We have asked a committee to look at this under the previous government, and the committee concluded that the background to the challenge in rural areas is non-financial and that there is nothing in the financial legislation today that leads to excessive caution in terms of lending in rural areas. These are the facts we have to deal with. We have asked some people under the previous government to investigate this, and they conclude from this. Then it is hard to say that a new institute with the support of the state will be able to do better, because they will risk facing a huge risk of loss.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140440	I am just being distracted because you cannot actually have listeners up there in the gallery when there is a meeting in the Chamber, and I think the rapporteur knows that. So please leave the lodge again. Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and then we will proceed in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140517	Thanks to the SF for being persistent and now putting forward the third variant of this resolution, the purpose of which is to ensure lending opportunities for housing and occupations in peripheral areas. Let it be said straight away: we support the intention of the proposal. Social democracy is of the fundamental opinion that it should be the private economy of the families rather than the postal number that determines whether a loan can be made for a dwelling, but we still cannot support the concrete solution proposed here by the SF, however, in a more open version than in the past. There are a number of problems with the proposal. It is the case that the parties that will support this proposal will have to allocate some money to this because, as I read, one government-supported mortgage credit institution that will provide deficit cover and interest rate subsidies, that is to say requires that funds should also be reserved for this in the Finance Act, and this requires, above all, that the parties supporting this proposal also provide clear funding for these funds. In addition, a government credit institution will address some borrowers that private institutions will not serve because the value of the mortgage is deemed to be too uncertain and thus the institution will also have a loan portfolio with significant loss risks exceeding the loss risks of private institutions. In concrete terms, this means that the State will take on significant loss risks and the buffer proposed by the SF to which the borrowers themselves have to pay is likely to be eaten up by losses. Finally, I can see from previous readings that the Minister has also questioned whether this is in line with the State aid rules. In short, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal itself, but I would still like to spend some time here during this debate to make proposals to the government, which we hope we will be able to concentrate on. As I said, we in the Social Democratic Party are of the fundamental opinion that it should be the private economy rather than the postal number that decides who can borrow housing. For this reason, the SR government also set up a committee to look at loan opportunities for rural occupations and housing, and the Committee made some recommendations in autumn 2015, after which the then Left Government followed up the recommendations of the Committee on the relaxation of the six-month rule and an adjustment of the guidelines in relation to available amounts. If you're going to believe the government's rural statement from 2017, and I choose to do so, then it's going to go forward with house sales in all the municipalities in the country, but unfortunately we still hear that it can be difficult to borrow in some parts of Denmark. That is why I think it would be appropriate to get the government to take stock of the initiatives taken under the Left Government. Have they worked as intended? Are there still problems with borrowing? Because that will make us all wiser here in the Folketing, so that we can adopt things in the right order and ensure that there will also be better settlement opportunities in the outermost regions of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140822	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140829	Thanks for the speech. As the rapporteur himself said, we have presented it here again, again, again, but this time in a slightly more open version, because we think that the discussion in the past is stranded on the fact that it was the specific model which, like the fig leaf, could be hidden behind. Now we say that we have a problem, and this could be one way to solve it, but we are very open to other ways, but then we have to face it. I actually hear the rapporteur say that there is a problem out there that we have to solve somehow. In the case of all the practicalities, i.e. whether they are State aid or not, is there some kind of financing model in which the Socialists could see themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123140920-2	I do not really think so, because, as the rapporteur himself says, it is more openly worded this time, and if it were the case that we saw a model, I would also open it up today. I think we need to look at it a little more clearly. We heard the Minister talk about the relocation of state jobs and that it is also something that can at least help to get some more people out there so that perhaps some of the outlying areas will get moving more. I also think we should all look back on the last 10-15 years, when there has been a huge centralisation of Denmark with structural reform, municipal reform, police and judicial reform, the entire area of SKAT, which was taken from the municipalities and laid out in some centres in Denmark, because it is all such a thing that has created centralisation and helps to contribute to this, that the demand for housing out there is not so great. And when the mortgage banks have to make an assessment, they therefore consider that they will not be able to get the money back if they borrow some money and there will be further price cuts out there. I think that we need to focus on what there is a beginning to recognise in here when we make policy, namely that we must remember to keep up with Denmark as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141030	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141031	I very much agree with the fact that the municipal reform which the Prime Minister of the country was behind a number of years ago has now had a great many consequences. We can't turn back time, so now we're gonna have to see how to make the best of this. In fact, I would like to commend the government for its initiatives with regard to the relocation of state jobs, but it is only a drop in the ocean compared to the relocation that is being seen. This should not prevent those who would like to live in these places from being able to buy and sell homes, and there are so many examples that people with a healthy economy are chosen from being selected on the basis of the postal code alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141119	As I said in my speech, I am also going to try to follow up on some of the things that have been done in this area in recent years. Under the pure Left Government, some steps were taken, and it would be quite good to pick up the experience, that is to say how it has worked, because then, as legislators, we will be wiser to find out if there is anything more we can do so that we can move on along that path. Otherwise, although we have made many mistakes in the past, we can correct some of the mistakes in the other policy areas, for example. the municipal reform. The individual municipalities can get some tools to also focus on the fact that it should not only be the centre city that should be the centre of growth, but that there is also something to live for and to live off in the surrounding villages. This is certainly my experience from my own municipality, Silkeborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141200	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141203	Thank you very much. I would actually like to ask a little more of this in principle, and perhaps even ideologically, question: how does the Social Democratic Party really feel about public participation in credit? So I ask because we have public banks such as the Growth Fund and the Export Credit Fund, which provide credit to companies. We have historically had public banks such as GiroBank, which also served citizens, and until a few years ago we have had mortgage institutions which were operated in a somewhat different way from what we see today. So if you look back on the Social Democrats' programmes just from the 1980s it appears that one still had a view that where the market like did not do its job, there could be grounds for public participation. What really is the fundamental attitude of the Social Democratic Party today towards public participation in the financial sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141300	Social democracy has a pragmatic approach to it. Last week we dealt with a legislative proposal on a self-serving public undertaking and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech there, it is the case that we have to assess from time to time where we need to use this company structure. I can say that we are now in the conciliation circle on mortgage lending, and I think that we have actually made a great deal of legislation in the last few years, which I think is starting to move in the right direction, among other things. In relation to that, with the rates of contributions, which are some of the things we have discussed. In other words, it is beginning to move in the right direction, in relation to the fact that consumers, citizens, homeowners are going to be better. I would also like to say that I think it is going too far to start creating completely new types of companies here. I think we should see whether, through other areas of the legislation in here, we can regulate in such a way that we ensure that there will also be better lending opportunities in outermost regions of Denmark. However, as I said, there are also many different policy areas where we should remember to think that we need a coherent Denmark. There is a startling recognition of that in here; I do not think we are done with it at all. There are some areas in Denmark where much more growth could be used. So let us instead go together on this and together ensure growth throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141412	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141414	I fully agree with the latter. And I also agree with the comments and remarks that have been made about where the major problems lie in relation to that issue, among other things. That is to say, the mania of centralisation, which very many parties have unfortunately shared for many years, where everything was better when it was large and lay in the big cities. But just to understand the answer correctly, I would like to ask: well, the Social Democratic Party does not have such a principle, as for example. The Liberal Alliance would probably have opposed public participation in the financial sector, i.e. in the provision of credit or other services to citizens or businesses, where, for example, it is possible to do so. can see that the market does not strike or where, for other reasons, it is beneficial to society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141502-2	No. So, I think we need to look at which forms of company are best at solving the tasks in different areas of economic and social life. And that is why I would also like to say that, with our eyes open, we have helped to set up different public companies and think that these are some areas where it really works, really, really well. I fully recognise that there is a problem in this area, but I can also look at the articles that we have now got out, some of which deal with the development of house sales, housing sales and loan access in the outermost regions, that there is, after all, some indication that it has begun to move in the right direction. So I'm gonna say that we're gonna get a thorough look at how what we've done a few years ago has worked, instead of resorting to a whole new construction here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141552	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123141606	This is not the first time that we have dealt with a motion for a resolution from the SF which contains the proposals which are also outlined in this motion for a resolution. Then the SF has chosen to change the wording a little, just as it does the tradition, by saying that we are not going to put forward a single proposal as to what kind of solution we should use. You'll leave that up to the government. In other words, the SF is tabling a resolution asking the parties to say yes or no to whether they agree with something that you do not know what is. I think that in itself is an innovation here in the Folketing. So we need to debate something that we don't know what is. What are we going to impose on the government? What is the significance of that authorization, and are we ourselves, as prescribers, obliged to support the initiative that the government might then come up with, even if we do not think it is the right medicine? I think that seems quite ill-thought out. I actually liked the old model better, I would like to say to the SF, where the Socialist People's Party clearly described what it was that it wanted. One wanted to have a state bank, a state mortgage bank, which would be able to grant these loans, and then all Danish citizens and companies would have to become joint guarantors for that matter. This is not something we can support in the Danish People's Party. Neither could we in 2016 and 2017, when it was presented, and neither can we in the form that the Socialist People's Party is putting forward in this House. It says that there is a desire to ensure cheaper lending opportunities for housing and occupations in outlying areas. Last time we had the discussion about what outermost regions are. Now I noted that the rapporteur mentioned postal numbers in his questions to the Minister for Industry earlier. We can take the postal number 6700 Esbjerg. There are both rural and urban areas. We can take the zip number 8700 Horsens, where I come from. It is also a big city, and at the same time it is also a rural area with the same postal code. What is really wanted by the SF? I find that difficult to assess, because how will one outline who has a property to be sold in a so-called outer area and who does not? What about all the questions of doubt? Are these the old parishes we're going back to? Are those church building lines? Is that watershed we need to think about? Or are the existing municipalities? Or are they zip numbers? I think the SF should reflect on that a little more, because if we were to adopt what the SF would like to do with these outlying areas, which should have special cheaper lending opportunities, there would also be some who would say that this property is exactly on the other side of this divide, this definition line that has now been decided. And what are we going to do about it? The neighborhood is then inside, they can come under a state bail. We simply believe this in the Danish People's Party is quite ill-thought out. Then it is also mentioned in the comments to the resolution that it should only be for people and economic operators with a healthy economy. Yeah, well, keep me safe, in case you wrote that it was supposed to be for people who had an unhealthy economy, it would probably be a little funny. But who should define and describe and decide who has a healthy economy? If you take entrepreneurship, for example, it usually has a slightly poorer economy in the first few years, because there is a large phase of establishment, and there are several years when you almost deliberately calculate to have deficits. That is quite normal, and it is also something that banks know when they facilitate credit etc. So who's gonna decide? Who should be a taster for who has a healthy and unhealthy economy? Maybe SF should reflect on that. I think that the most fundamental thing must be that we should welcome the fact that it has actually improved, far better to obtain mortgage loans also in the Danish rural areas, and we can actually see that nettto lending is larger than the loans that are being paid out. I think we should rejoice in that too. I think we should also welcome the fact that when this motion for a resolution was tabled for the first time by the SF, time was different. There we did not have the economic conditions that we are fortunately experiencing today. Finally, I would like to say that this is not because we believe that there is nothing but cake in the Danish rural areas. There are very many places where people who want a loan also find it very difficult to get it, although they can show both an honest economy and they choose to buy an economically suitable accommodation. We must, of course, do something about that. However, to make a definite state measure, which SF is proposing here, Dansk Folkeparti cannot recommend.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142108	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142113	This is almost getting a little comical. I make three times a motion for a resolution with a very specific model, and every time I am told by Hans Kristian Skibby that exactly the same then I think the fourth time: perhaps the Folketing can agree that there is a problem we would like to solve, and then we will let the government, the minister and his wise officials come up with a proposal. But no, now it's too unconcrete now I have to jump back to the proposal for a state bank as it was described before. I can hear that Hans Kristian Skibby has read the comments on the motion for a resolution. There is a detailed description of how a model could be, because of course we are not just tabling a motion for a resolution which says: solve it here. We say it could be that way, but it could be another way. I think Hans Kristian Skibby is spending an incredible amount of time talking down this proposal, which is why, just to be absolutely sure, I would like to hear DF's rapporteur: is there, or is there no problem with being able to buy and sell housing and get loans to businesses in many places in this country in what many call peripheral areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142238	It is quite correct, as Mrs Bech Poulsen points out, that I have read the comments on the motion for a resolution, and it says in the first column: 'The SF assumes that all parties who recognise that this is a problem and an absurdity can vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. In other words, we must vote in favour of a resolution which we then agree is that we do not know what is contained in it. Well, I've been in here for 14 years, and that, at least in relation to where I come from, is a completely reverse logic. I usually deal with specific proposals, and I did so when Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen presented her proposal for the first time, the second time, the third time sold to the gentleman, if I may say so. We've done that every time. Now you give up on the SF, now you don't want to make your proposals. You want to write in the comments what you want, but now you're just doing something where you don't want to tell me what you want. No, I can't say yes or no to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142336	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142337	Well, what's going on right now is that Hans Kristian Skibby is actually grabbing for straws to find an opportunity not to have to say on the one hand that there's no problem out there... there's probably a lot of people in this country who would think that it was a pretty arrogant attitude to have... and on the other hand find a reason not to support it here. I shall now put the question to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby: Is there a problem or isn't there? Because if there's no problem in DF's optics, we shouldn't discuss this at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142411	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142412	Now you can always weigh what a problem is. In many places, these are challenges. I am fully aware that there are people who have a good economy but who still find it difficult to get a loan offer on the property they want to buy. This is also something that can be found in larger provincial towns. It is not just a phenomenon that has been invented in the Danish rural areas. In fact, it is also something you experience in Horsens or Esbjerg, to mention the places where I used to be. But what I am arguing against is that you keep coming down to the Chamber with this proposal, but you go out and say you don't want to tell us what you want; now we just have to adopt something that we don't know what is. It's that reverse logic that I can't deal with seriously at all. But I will say: Now present it a fifth time, and then describe what the SF really wants.That is the good advice that can come from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142507	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142510	I can well follow the rapporteur's scepticism about some of the options presented earlier by the SF. We have wanted to present something that was very much similar to what the SF has presented in the past. We do not quite know how to implement it, but we can see that there is a problem. I just want to ask the rapporteur because I think that the tone is going to be such that it is almost a pity, because I think that there is a real problem in this debate, precisely how we ensure that we do not get this bias in Denmark. I also often hear that the Danish People's Party agrees that we must ensure that rural areas are also held in good hands. How should we approach the SF, or from the alternative or from another party as an opposition party, if you want some machine power, some talented people to help find a sensible solution to something you think is a problem? Is it not by using the resolution, and if you have tried to do it very specifically and have found that you cannot, then try something a little more broadly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142606	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142607	Something more broad, I'd like to sign for that. I fully agree with the questioner on this. That's it. Because it doesn't contain anything. All we have to do is impose a bill on the government to ensure that housing in outlying areas is provided with cheaper lending opportunities. And then the motion for a resolution chooses to withdraw the proposals and say: now it has to be up to the government to decide what to put in. We cannot expect other parties which do not sit in government to give carte blanche to support the proposals or anything else that might come from that direction. I just think that we should reflect on the fact that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. Looking at the Danish rural areas and islands, there has been little demand for a state mortgage bank to be set up in Denmark. I know we have not heard the wish of the Danish rural areas and islands. If we look at examples and I know that SF would like to look at examples from other countries, then you have, for example. in Norway done something similar to what SF proposes. In fact, this has led to the creation of large black geographical gaps in Norway, where ordinary mortgage banks do not grant loans at all. That is one of the reasons why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142720	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142720-2	I promise that my rapporteur's speech will be shorter than what I am now talking about here from the chair, because that is a long way along the way the arguments that I will be putting forward in a moment. After all, it is precisely taken into account that there are some arguments that may not have been clear enough in the resolutions that have been tabled in the past. In fact, quite specific proposals are being made on how to ensure that the state does not run too high a risk, not completely naive proposals, but there are solutions. That's what's gonna go for. So I am simply asking the rapporteur to have a debate where we are approaching, as I really think the SF is doing here, a solution, but where we are missing the last one. I am not told at all that the rapporteur recognizes what we actually do most often as parties in here when we have a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142806	What I do not understand is that the SF has withdrawn their proposal and then they have tabled a new motion for a resolution which contains no proposals. It simply says that the government should be required to submit by 1 April a legislative proposal to ensure that housing and occupations in the outermost regions have cheaper access to loans. But that is not something you can just say that you support or do not support. I would therefore like to know what tangible proposals are to be supported, and that is where I feel best when motions for resolutions contain proposals. And unfortunately, this motion for a resolution does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142842	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123142852	Thank you. As has been mentioned, we have discussed similar proposals from the SF several times in the past, and I was actually so inspired by the previous debate that I am going to say something other than what I intended to say, and I know that some people are always worried. 'Cause I actually think that, uh... Hans Kristian Skibby made a point regarding a position on this proposal. Because if it were only so simple that by 1 April the government would have to put forward a legislative proposal to ensure that housing and occupations in the outermost regions would have cheaper lending opportunities, then I do not think any of us were against it. It would be fantastic if it could be done if we could ensure in here with a stroke of pens that everything can now be done, and both the Minister, the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Danish People's Party rapporteur have stressed that all the proposals for this, or what is on the verge of what we usually discuss, have problems of one or the other or the third nature. Well, if it were that simple, I guess we'd have done it already. For the intentions, we're agreed in here. That is why in 2015 we on the Left went to the polls to make Denmark better balanced. It was for us a central choice that we should have a Denmark in better balance. We were quite alone, for example with the desire for the relocation of state jobs. Today there has been a great deal of support for this, and I am delighted about that. We have implemented an agricultural and food package because the agricultural and food industry is very much in our rural areas. We did so alone with the help of the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, as it was a purely Left Government. We have removed and lowered a number of taxes and charges that are very much a burden on companies located in our rural areas, because the best way to ensure that you can get a loan wherever you are in Denmark is that there is growth. That is why we are concerned that we are pursuing a policy that creates growth throughout Denmark, and we can of course welcome the fact that almost all municipalities have been increasing employment in the last few years, and the housing market also looks considerably better in virtually all the municipalities in the country. Lying times are falling and selling prices are rising almost everywhere. It is a sign that things are going better in Denmark. It is thus the best medicine to ensure that from us in the Folketing there is a political desire for a Denmark in better balance, and if there is a belief in the future, you also increase the likelihood that you can access a loan. I am not going to review the other initiatives and analyses that have been made, about the six-month rule and availability amount and everything else, but just point out that we have taken initiatives very firmly in relation to lending opportunities and what is most crucial, namely that there is a belief in the future and that there is a development throughout Denmark and therefore a prerequisite for investing in all parts of Denmark. Yes, it has been at the heart of the Left for many years, and we have delivered very, very robust results over the last 21⁄2 years. So I will not repeat the previous discussions, but just emphasise that we want a better balance for Denmark. The discussion about a state mortgage company with a risk of State aid and everything else I do not have to repeat, but for the sake of good order I should like to say that, although the intentions sound really inconvenient, when you become concrete, it is problematic. We would rather make sure that we create a Denmark in a better balance where there is growth and development and thus a belief in the future. Because it gives us easier access to capital. That is why we cannot support the SF motion for a resolution this time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143305	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143309	I really think that this debate is unfortunately the rapporteur of the DF who has started it, which has taken such a direction, where instead of looking at whether there is a problem or not, or whether you have some solutions or not, it becomes a criticism that the SF has four times put forward proposals with a very concrete model and is now trying another way and saying: okay, if we agree that this is a problem, should we work towards a solution to it together? But, of course, we would like to make some input, which is why we have a rather specific model in the comments. Actually, I think that's really a shame. In fact, I know that the rapporteur of the Left is concerned that there is a coherent Denmark. But when the rapporteur says that if it were that easy, we would have done so, it is not true, because there are plenty of ideological reasons why I hear that over and over again from civil colleagues that you do not want a state bank. It's okay when a state bank • The market value fund, the Growth Fund, export promotion, etc. I would like to ask the rapporteur the question which I have also asked the other rapporteurs: is there a specific problem or not in terms of obtaining mortgages if you have an otherwise healthy economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143431-2	I can repeat the answer, namely that there has been an analysis work and that it shows that, in isolation, there are no such financial problems. But this was the overall problem that I tried to address in my rapporteur's speech, namely that there was We were in a situation where growth was in the capital and around Aarhus alone and where the rest of the country was disconnected. Was that a problem? Yes! Have we done anything about it? Yes! Are we going to do more about it? Yes! Because we want a Denmark that is linked. We want development and, of course, it is also important for housing prices and access to loans. If there is faith in the future, all these things are easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143520	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143520-2	Is the rapporteur aware that both the Joint Council of Rural Regions and a large number of Left Mayors, who are mayors in such areas where you have these problems, say: yes, in one version or another, it is necessary to have a parallel mortgage system, state-supported loan options or something else, but that steps need to be taken, including from here, to ensure that there will be the possibility of obtaining mortgages for both citizens and companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143556	It is crucial that we ensure that there is a proper development throughout Denmark, and I think that in all modesty there is. The then Minister for Business and Growth presented 145 proposals, of which I think 140 have already been implemented, because we want proper development. As I say, if it were so simple that with a single bill we could do it, yes, I think we would have found each other on it. The problem has been that when it becomes concrete, the proposals SF has had contain a large number of problems, and the best solution is that there is growth and development and believe that it is good to invest in all parts of Denmark. This is the policy that I think we have been implementing with great success over the last 21⁄2 years, and we have, in this way, only an ambition to continue with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143645	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123143653	Thank you very much. Unlike several other rapporteurs who have apparently had some irritation that the SF has put forward a proposal that we have discussed in the past, I would really like to congratulate SF for holding onto this very fundamental and, as such, quite ideological discussion about how our financial sector, including our mortgage system in Denmark, should be organized in the best possible way to ensure citizens, businesses and social considerations. Because a great deal has happened to our financial sector over the last few decades. After all, it has been transformed basically through a wide range of liberalisations and changes in the ownership structure, and that means that we are in a completely different place today than we did just 20 years ago. We have never really discussed this very much in Denmark. This is something that happened in those years when it was thought that it was better to leave everything to the market and that it could not be liberalised enough. The less the state interfered, the better everything would go. There has been a financial crisis since then, and there are probably many who have a slightly more nuanced view of those things today, and therefore it is important that we discuss how our financial sector is organised, how ownership is. For the financial sector, banks and mortgage and insurance companies, such a key concern in our economy is both for companies and for citizens. Being able to borrow for a house or have an account without having to pay too many fees is, of course, things that mean a great deal to us in everyday life. But these are also things that matter a lot in society. Where is the money invested? If they invest in coal and oil, are they invested in sun and wind? Are they invested in strange financial products that create no value for society or are they invested in the real economy? All this is what our financial sector is all about just to take a slightly broader perspective on this. To turn to the specific proposal: the proposal's intention is quite simply that it should not be your address that determines whether you can have access to a reasonable loan when you have to settle somewhere in Denmark. There we have just seen that for a number of years there has been an unequal treatment of people living in parts of Denmark, where the property market has not had the same glamorous development as in Copenhagen. It has been difficult for people to borrow for their homes because mortgage banks have not been prepared to make credit available. This is what can be called a market failure, which means that the market has, for a period of time at least, been unable to solve the task satisfactorily. What should we do as a Parliament when there is a market failure, especially when we ourselves are responsible in here for the liberalisation that has taken place where the market has taken over in the financial sector? Of course, we must ask ourselves whether we can step in. And that is, in fact, the discussion that SF has raised several times. There has been a development in the mortgage credit institutions now I can see that time is running out which has not been very beneficial to the Danes, to say it as it is. The mortgage banks in Denmark until a few years ago were run on a non-profit basis. They were driven by rest in themselves. It was the customers themselves who, through associations, owned the mortgage banks. A contribution rate was paid and the contribution rate was used to cover losses. And it was even so in the past that when the bond line ran out and there was money in surplus at the rate of contribution paid, yes, then they got back into their hands. What is the situation we are experiencing today? Yes, it is that because of some very unfortunate decisions made in the Folketing a few decades ago, the banks have taken over the mortgage banks, and they have made them a kind of milking machine, where they have raised the contribution rates over and over again, taken money out of the pocket of Danish home owners and not least small businesses and sent them to the shareholders of the banks. That is the reality; that is what it looks like today. In the Enhedslisten we really think that the best thing was to re-establish an association-owned mortgage institution in accordance with the principles we had in the past. It would be good for the Danes, it would be good for small businesses. Nor are we opposed to the fact that the public authorities can play a role if they cannot set up these co-operatives, so to speak, mortgage credit institutions. So we take a positive view of the SF's proposals, and we also support the Social Democrats' declaration of intent from up here to better identify the area. And if we could agree on that in committee, it was at least a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144201	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144203	Thank you. That's quite a story, sir. Pelle Dragsted is out in here, namely that the financial crisis, which started in the United States, was due to liberalisation and so on. The truth is that the two major credit companies, which accounted for more than half of the loans to U.S. homeowners, were state credit companies, namely Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This was at the same time a policy which is somewhat similar to the one proposed here, namely that everyone should have the right to a mortgage. It was simply part of the American dream and therefore the state had to go in and guarantee loans, including to people who could not afford it. So that story that it's like capitalism that breaks down isn't right. The truth is that while the Danish mortgage system is and has been stable, also through the crises, has suffered very few losses and was and is a very market-oriented credit system, the reverse was the case in the United States. They had a much less liberal and much less market-oriented mortgage system, and it went terribly wrong. So the tale that it should be good that it is the state that is in charge of lending has no hold on the reality and the experience we have gained.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144325	In fact, I think I stressed that I do not necessarily think it is good that it is the state. I think that the system we have had in Denmark for 200 years with association-owned mortgage institutions was a really, very good system, and I think that we can see from this point of view that we are going to regret very thoroughly in the future that the banks were allowed to take over the association-owned mortgage institutions and, moreover, have de facto prevented the creation of new mortgage institutions based on cooperative ownership. Banks are an important thing in a society. Some of us have some money we want to save, and that money has to go and work somewhere. That function is important in a society. The problem with the liberalisation I am talking about is that banks have developed into giant monsters which have become such financial supermarkets. We can discuss the American financial crisis, but one of the reasons for it was that some financial products were developed in the form of these subprime loans. They insured and insured, if I may say so, various financial products in an increasingly opaque market which, independently of the real economy, grew in value. It was the liberalisations over decades starting with Reagan and Thatcher and copied here at home which led to the instability of the financial market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144453	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144455	I fully agree that there were certainly people who acted extremely irresponsiblely on the market. One of the problems may be that when you get a feeling that governments are ready to back up if things go wrong and you get an indirect guarantee of it, it makes people more irresponsible. As a Liberal, I am also against this. I am not in favour of supporting banks because they behave irresponsibly. I agree with that. I believe, however, that it is very difficult to set up a bank today. However, this is due to the regulation we have introduced. Starting a new bank today is simply so costly. Those who are currently on the market can avoid competition, because it is very difficult to make a new product because of the very strict regulation we have. I agree with that, but that is what we have to look at and not build state banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144556	That is where the dilemma arises, because the regulation that we have, including that of the state, goes in and offers guarantees, and it does so right now with the SIFI institutions, means that we have given them the guarantees, and they continue, at least as I see it, to have relatively risky behaviour. The problem is that once the banks have grown as large as they have become, they can actually overturn our economy if they fail, we can really do nothing but make those guarantees. That is why I think we should take a much more fundamental approach and ask ourselves whether we should go back to the division that existed before the liberalization that was made up during the 1980s, such as in the United Kingdom. allowed mortgage institutions, banks and insurance companies to be in the same group. However, getting to the bottom of that debate today is going too far, and I can see that the President is becoming impatient.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144642	No, no, it is just a question of the rapporteur's speaking time being exhausted. But there are several questions. There are, in fact, two more brief comments, first from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144652	Thank you for that exciting speech. After all, I agree with Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted in a great deal, but I would just like to point out that I think the debate has got a little crooked by the fact that I teased the Minister with the word state banks because we have state banks. In fact, the proposal does not contain State banks. In what we outlined in the comments that could be made, we write that we have previously proposed a mortgage credit institution with some form of State aid or guarantee. However, at the bottom of the comments, we also write that the state could make some deposit capital • small amounts: 1-2 billion. kr. It is just to emphasise that we do not think that the only solution should be a form of government mortgage, not at all. We think that the very best thing in the world would be the mortgage we had before 1989 but, as the rapporteur himself said, there are such great demands to enter the market at all today that some kind of hybrid model could be so. But again, it's not so much the model we're preoccupied with. That's solving some problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144813	I am fully aware of that. Whether you call it a state bank, a public bank or a general bank doesn't matter. What I just really like about the old mortgage institutions is that they were cooperative and that they were based on people's own commitment, which unfortunately saw running into the sand, and they were professionalised in a way that people forgot that they were actually their mortgage institutions, so that people almost didn't notice when the banks took them over. There is a group of people with a former bank manager in charge who are currently trying to re-establish a democratic association-run mortgage institution, and that is very difficult, according to what Mr. Scrooge B. Olsen said because there has been a great deal of regulation in this area for the reasons I mentioned. However, the question is whether we should not look for a model in which we could support the development of a new association-based mortgage system rather than finding a state solution. I haven't answered that question. I am thinking a lot about this at the moment, because I myself am working a little bit on a major issue on the financial sector, but that is at least where I am immediately in that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144930	Does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen want her second brief comment? No. Then we have a brief comment to make on Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123144935	Thank you. I took note of the fact that Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentioned the words of the financial monsters, I think it was said, and now I do not know whether it is the type of monsters we see in cartoons that the rapporteur is thinking about, but I am thinking a little back in time at the beginning of the financial crisis, when we carried out a series of crisis packages here in the Folketing; I think there were three different laws implemented at the time. After all, the rapporteur's own party put forward a proposal that the state should buy up properties at all foreclosures in Denmark in the private housing sector, including in the business sector, and then those who owned them should be allowed to take over and live in them for what they could now afford. That was the proposal that came from the then rapporteur in this area, which I remember was Mrs Line Barfoed ■ I myself was rapporteur on the matter, that is why I remember it. I am thinking of this issue of guarantees mentioned by the rapporteur and would like to ask: does the Enhedslisten still believe that this kind of guarantee should be given to people who have borrowed money on a capital market and that, if they cannot figure out how to pay their debts, the state should be forced to buy the property at foreclosures and let people live in them for what they can afford to pay now? Because that was Enhedslisten's obvious policy ten years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145052	I mean, the state shouldn't be forced to do anything. If that was something we adopted in here, then it was a democratic decision. I believe that this was such a crisis management proposal right after the financial crisis, where we saw the number of foreclosures increasing. Fortunately, it did not become as bad as it has been seen in previous economic crises as, for example, in the past. In the 1980s, also because unemployment never reached the level we saw there. But in such a situation where ordinary Danes, who have taken care of a job, paid taxes, but as a result of a financial crisis for which they have no responsibility, get into unemployment and are forced to sell the home, take their children out of school and move to other places, yes, there I think we, as a community and politicians, should look at what we can do, and here a model could be that they bought up at these foreclosures so that those who actually lived in these properties could stay, now as tenants. I do not think that the proposal was that they should pay just what they could afford; they would of course have to pay the costs as there were, but perhaps the State had the possibility of some slightly longer-term loans which could make it possible. I do not remember the proposal exactly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145206	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145207	I am glad that, after all, the rapporteur recognizes that it was and is the policy of Enhedslisten. It was just to illustrate that it is a different form of guarantee than those we are typically used to in Denmark in 2018 at least. In other words, the rapporteur was just reflecting on the questions put by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, about Fannie Mae etc., where it was that people could just hang the key on the wall and say: I no longer want to own this house, now owns the mortgage institute then the property in question. This is exactly the same thing that Enhedslisten thinks should take place in Denmark. When Mrs Jensen cannot pay her rent, she can just hang the key, and then the state comes and buys the property, and then Mrs Jensen can stay for it in rent that she now has the opportunity to pay. I think that is quite interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145259	I think the proposal was a concrete proposal in an emergency situation; I do not have the proposal in front of me and I do not remember exactly what the content of it is. I think it might make sense in such a situation to go in with an emergency package of help, not a package of help for the banks such as the one that the Danish People's Party was busy with during the period when one was prepared to pull one billion kroner after another out of the Danes' pockets to secure the banks against bankruptcy, no, but a package of help for ordinary citizens and homeowners and small businesses who came into trouble because of the financial crisis • and yes, so will Enhedslisten also in 2018. We believe that this is our responsibility as elected representatives: to serve the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145336	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's time for mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145344	Thank you. As others have said, this is the third time we have dealt with a variant of the same resolution. Nor can we support the motion for a resolution this time. We think it is a very populist proposal, in which the premise should be that it is harder to obtain a mortgage in the outermost regions of Denmark compared to the risk that exists elsewhere in Denmark, and there is just not much to suggest that it should be true. It can be said that banks and mortgage banks make money from lending money, so when they do not, it is because they consider that there is a risk that they suffer losses, and that loss is ultimately paid by other citizens elsewhere in the country. So the premise is that we don't buy it in the first place. Then we also think that it would be totally unreasonable for citizens of large cities who already pay the highest property taxes to contribute to the citizens of other parts of the country being able to obtain loans on a lighter basis than they can get themselves. We think that would be unfair. We are already talking about the fact that we have a compensation system in Denmark, where the citizens of the large cities contribute 14 billion. kr. In other words, it is 14 billion for the outermost regions. kr., the citizens of the large cities could pay less in tax, and then they would still get away the same public service from their municipality as they do today, because they simply pay some money in tax, and then the tax is used for public spending by citizens of other municipalities. They simply do not get anything for the money they pay. You could also get 14 billion. kr. more municipal service, if they were not to send the money to other municipalities. So it will contribute to a redistribution from city to country, which is already abundantly large. We simply do not believe this to be appropriate and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145608	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145610	Thank you. As I have said many times before today, there is a reason why we have made such an open resolution. Then you can turn yourself in after you think it's a problem or don't think it's a problem. But we still have a lot to do because it shouldn't be a free round... of how a proposal might look, and so I'm a little surprised that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says so with more lenient terms. So, in the proposal we have, there is a mortgage rate of, for example. 60% It is to limit the risk of loss by simply not being able to borrow as much as you can. We also have very specific ceilings in relation to how much money we have to raise ourselves in financing. It can only be fixed-rate loans without repayment period etc. etc. It is precisely to say that this must go to people who actually have a healthy economy, but in areas where there is a low turnover of houses. So I just want to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also asked his colleagues: Is there a problem or isn't there a problem? I am not talking about the solution, but I ask: is there or is there no problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145729	Firstly, it has to be said that if mortgage credit institutions want to have some other lending limits than 80% today, they can just do so, but they do not. There is no desire for it, there is no demand for it. Is there a problem? the question is asked. You can easily find people who think they are unfairly treated, so they think they have a good economy and cannot get a mortgage. You can find that in Copenhagen too. There are people who don't understand why they can't get a loan. But it is not the same as that there is an overall problem. There is just no indication of this, and the Minister of Business himself mentioned it in his speech at the beginning. We have set up a committee to look at this, and they have submitted their report. And as they write, it is not financial things that make it possible for there to be, for example. lower growth in some outermost regions. So I don't think that the proposal even if you had to implement it will help big on anything. Because if you already really have a good economy, yes, then you can borrow too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145846	There are no requests for further brief remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123145854	This debate has already been very exciting. I myself have said that I actually think it is a very sensible proposal from the SF, and I have also thought so the other times when the SF has made similar, but a little more concrete, proposals. On those occasions we have also been sceptical about the specific nature of the proposals, because it is a very, very important task that needs to be solved on this point, in other words precisely to ensure that those who live in the economically less attractive areas in Denmark can actually get housing on reasonable terms like everyone else. And there, in our view, it is also more difficult to borrow, even if you have a good economy and a good budget, i.e. if you are in some of the postal numbers. If there is no agreement on this, it is difficult to have the discussion, I think. In any case, it is our view in the alternative that there is a real problem, and it is also after today's debate. I have heard the same voices as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen about some of the outermost interests. And I have also heard mayors from various parties say that there might well be something interesting in finding a solution similar to what the SF puts forward here, but without providing the precise solution. We would also like to support this in the alternative. We say yes to this proposal, knowing that it is very broadly worded, that is to say, a parliamentary resolution on cheaper lending opportunities for housing and occupations in outlying areas. It is, of course, very broad, so the discussion could be whether it makes sense to table motions for resolutions in the Parliamentary Assembly on something that is so broad. It has done so until today, at least. In the alternative, we have used it as a tool, like many other parties, so if we accept the premise that it is okay to table such a motion for a resolution because we want to promote a political direction and would like to resolve a problem where we would then have the assistance of the Ministry or the Minister in the area of the resort in question, then I think we should at least put two points below the point where this is a sensible motion for a resolution. One may then disagree with whether there is a problem or not, and the alternative then believes that there is a problem. I am not going to say so much more about it than that we really think that the extended hand, which I also experienced from the Socialists, is interesting. We will probably not reach the end of this discussion of the proposal with a solution, so in committee we will be even more informed as to what options are available. What we heard about the alternative funding that is already under way today is about some crowdfunding from some really talented people who are trying to create an alternative association-based loan option. So the question is how we do it so that it is ensured that the first initiative in this area, with an alternative source of funding, does not fall to the ground because it has not been done properly. It may of course be with the help of in here that a framework is set up to allow the development of a product that is so attractive that it can actually compete with the market. Then we get into something that is really interesting for us in the Alternative: we recognise the market and believe that it can really do very well. However, we are very open to opportunities and services and products and initiatives that can outperform the market in areas where it itself is not good enough. This has been seen in the past, and we will continue to support it. So we say 'yes' to the broad wording and 'yes' to the outstretched hand of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150213	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150217	There's such a purely feel good atmosphere spreading here in the Folketing. However, I think that the rapporteur may be a little too elegant. After all, I noted that the rapporteur mentioned postal numbers and, at the same time, the rapporteur says that the alternative fully supports the proposal, which states that it is the guarantee of cheaper lending opportunities for housing and occupations in peripheral areas. And then the rapporteur mentions postal numbers. So I would like to ask: is this the way to define peripheral areas in the alternative? You can't just define me like that with zip numbers. So, 6700 Esbjerg also has rural areas, 8700 Horsens also has rural areas. Will the rapporteur reply to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150306	I do not define outlying areas with postal numbers, but I mention postal numbers because navigating by postal numbers is a fairly integral part of Danes' everyday lives when it comes to understanding where people live in the country, and that is something I would like to maintain after my rapporteur's speech. I think that makes sense. There are some who recognize themselves in the problem, some who wonder how, if you have the opportunity to invest in building a new house in a postal code or in a city that is attractive, so that, almost before the last brick is set up, you may have earned perhaps 0.5 million. kr. in price increases only. Is that something we need to regulate from in here? It is not a debate that we have today, but I would say that there is a risk of having a housing market that can be pumped up in this way because there are some sensible loan terms and there is a market that is demanding one and the other here in Copenhagen, someone may go in and get a loan option, despite the fact that they hardly have the income to do so, because they expect that the market will save them if there is a problem. So we are facing a problem that says: Well, is it possible for a person in one part of Denmark to have the same opportunity as one in the other part of Denmark if you have the same economy? That is where we think there is a problem that we need to address. So it doesn't have to do with zip numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150413	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150415	Thank you. I simply do not understand why the rapporteur mentioned postal numbers as the only one to describe what these peripheral areas could be. And that is what I heard the rapporteur say, namely postal numbers. So I would like to know what other definitions we are going to have? Otherwise, the rapporteur has supported a motion for a resolution which is practically impossible to implement, because surely we must also have a definition of what the outermost regions are and there I only hear that they say postal numbers, and that answer is simply not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150450	When I was very, very young, I lived in Ringkøbing, and there will be parts of Ringkøbing and some of the zip numbers that are out there that could be considered outermost. There can also be a fantastic plot overlooking Ringkøbing Fjord, which is not considered like this. I should like to take it back with zip numbers and say that it was a huge mistake that I mentioned the word zip numbers in my speech before. In relation to the other open questions contained in the motion for a resolution here, allow me to say that there are many things that can define where it is that we should go in and help postal numbers, outermost areas, places where it is difficult to buy and sell its home, places where it is difficult to obtain a loan. SF suggests that we must ensure that it is possible to borrow loans, even in those areas in Denmark where it is difficult today. We would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150530	We thank the rapporteur and turn to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150537	Thank you very much. It is difficult to have anything other than sympathy for the intentions behind this proposal. We are all aware that there are places in Denmark where it is difficult both to sell your house and to buy a house and to get the loan you want. In most places you can get a loan, but not necessarily on the terms you would like. But I must also say that we on the radical side are not entirely convinced that what the SF is proposing is the right way to go. There are some practical problems. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, there are some State aid rules problems: how do we make the geographical demarcation in practice? Should it be based on the price of the house or on the postal number? Is that supposed to be the neighborhood? Is that supposed to be the type of accommodation? I mean, it's not a simple question, and it's not in itself just a detail. I would like to agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on this point, because if we are to make some legislation in which we like to grant special privileges to one type of borrower, then we must be very precise in relation to what objective criteria should apply, and that is not a simple question, no matter how good the intentions are. Finally, there is the question of financing: how far should this be done? But instead of going into a detailed discussion of all that, I would really like to deal with the matter a little more in principle, because what is the real challenge here? The challenge is that there are some places in Denmark where for decades there has been a policy that has made it less attractive to live there. There has been a housing tax stop since Anders Fogh Rasmussen joined in 2001, which has completely distorted the Danish housing market. If 25 years ago you bought a home in Hellerup or at Lolland for 2 million. If you live in Hellerup, you are now a multimillionaire, but you can hardly get rid of your home on Lolland. Historical savings and centralisations have been carried out, for example. in relation to police circles, and to this day the government saves 2%. In the rural areas, education, vocational schools, upper secondary schools and vocational colleges are affected with surgical precision, where it is hardest to provide young people with enough resources to maintain their education. This removes the lifeblood in rural areas. So we are doing this today with one hand, while at the same time expelling state jobs with the other hand as some sort of patch on the open wound. That is why it is becoming less attractive to live in rural areas, and that is what we need to do about it. We do not really believe that we can solve the problem by introducing a treatment for symptoms, which then goes in and relaxes the policy that has basically been pursued. We would rather concentrate the political forces on making Denmark a country where it is good to live everywhere and where it is attractive for young people to grow up and take an education and stay, and where business can be run anywhere, etc. etc. Because if we go down a path where we start to confirm a two-parting of Denmark, so we have one mortgage market for one type of Danes and another for another type of Danes, then I think that, in addition to all the practical problems that are really connected with this solution, we are giving up the fight. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150910	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123150913	Thank you. As I heard the rapporteur of the Radicals, the Radicals actually recognise that there is a problem or else the rapporteur must correct me but that the drafting of our resolution was not what it seems necessary. The rapporteur must correct me if I am wrong, but I think that must be the first step. I have heard from DF and all the other right-wing parties that there is no problem, referring to a report, but when you ask the Rural Council, when you ask a number of Left Mayors, even a Conservative mayor, you hear that there are problems. And the problems are not often the business economy or the householder's economy, but that there is a low turnover, that is, that it may take some time to sell your home. Then you could say that we're gonna put in there. But I have a specific question. Sir. Martin Lidegaard said that our proposal should have some privileges, and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also mentioned lax rules. What we have written into the comments is actually something that makes it more difficult, in other words to calculate precisely the risk that may be, i.e. a lower level of lending, fixed-rate loans, etc. So I was just interested to hear where these privileges in getting into this loan market, which we have outlined in the comments, are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151044	We acknowledge that there are challenges, and we will really rather address the basic reasons why the housing market in some parts of Denmark is as much bottom-up as it is, more than trying to patch this up with this. It can be said that if we do not provide in some way a softer loan than the market does, it makes no sense at all to implement the SF's proposals. So there has to be some way in which the person or couple who cannot borrow on normal terms, as they would like, can either be unable to obtain a loan, and it may also be that you cannot get the type of loan you want, repayment-free, what do I know in an ordinary mortgage institution, should still be able to get it at a government mortgage institution or whatever it is. That is what I think is in some way more relaxed because a new opportunity is being confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151147	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151148	It might be easier to say that the limits you have, compared to how fast you expect a house to be sold, were a little longer in these areas. But in reality, for many of these people I am talking about, it's not because they can't afford to buy these houses, and those houses are price-wise not at all in line with Frederiksberg or Copenhagen. Many of them say that they can live with having to put 30 or 40 per cent. even, and that they are comfortable not being able to obtain repayment and have fixed-rate loans, etc., but just want to be able to borrow some money. One of the models mentioned by the Rural Council is to look at the sales time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151233	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151234	So, even with all my goodwill, I do not think we can escape the fact that it is, as is implicit in the proposal here, that we are giving some options that do not exist today. People who have to live somewhere, which we have not come much closer to where to be, or what objective criteria should define it, are given the opportunity, even if ordinary mortgage institutions do not want to give them a loan on those terms, to get some kind of guarantee that they will be able to get that loan anyway. This means, of course, that in some way the state must take in a risk which the ordinary mortgage institution does not want to take, otherwise the resolution would not have been drawn up, and that is more relaxed in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151317	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Anders Johansson for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151326	Thank you, and thank you to the SF for once again presenting this motion for a resolution and raising the debate on loans to outermost regions. I think this is an important debate, because it is clear that if we have a wish for a Denmark in a good balance, and the Conservative People's Party does, of course, it is also necessary to have good access as a private or business person to loan opportunities. The situation has improved much, and it is, of course, above all, because the economy has got off to a better start. But it is important that we constantly demand, for example, that mortgage credit institutions. customers are treated equally regardless of postal code. I think they have an interest in that too. That's what they do for a living. So, of course, they also have a self-interest in treating customers as well as they can now, because that is what their business area is. I am well aware that it can be very difficult to assess on a case-by-case basis, because there is a difference between one case and another. There is a difference between what the alternative use option is, depending on whether you build in one place or another. How's the bedtime? What's the discount in the price? What are the individual economic conditions? What is the local price formation? There's a big difference between place and place, and that's the way it is. Therefore, the risk is also different. With regard to the specific motion for a resolution, it is in fact already the case today that mortgage credit institutions can offer a lower loan, as the comments suggest. They can already do so today, but they are not very often using it. That is precisely because there is no private market for it at the moment. This must be done on the basis of a risk assessment interpreters are too risky to do. But in itself, the resolution does not bring any new tool to the toolbox in order to solve these problems, other than that it should be the state that should offer what the private sector will not offer today. In fact, the latest figures also show that things are going better, and that is welcome. It is in fact the case that in virtually every region of the country there is an optimism which also spills over into the housing market, so that there is an increase in housing prices, and thus there is also a lower risk of lending. This is a healthy development, and it is a development that the Conservative People's Party wants to support. I think that we are doing and have done this through a large number of initiatives, not later than last week, with the relocation of state jobs. We have also liberalised the planning law and today we have decided on tax reductions which strengthen tourism, which in turn provide a breeding ground for more jobs in the outermost regions. We would like to work to remove more burdens from business so that we can have a more competitive business sector that can help support growth throughout Denmark. We believe that this is the sound solution to the financial challenges that may exist. So with those comments, despite the sympathetic intentions, I must say that we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151635	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151639	Thanks for the speech. Does the rapporteur agree with me that when we now have a sea of funds you could call them state banks, or what you want to do is lend them to, for example. small and medium-sized enterprises and, in some cases, large enterprises, is it because you go in and say that this is an area that the market cannot or will not cover, and that is why, through the Market Development Fund, you want to grant loans for this type of activity? There is also the Growth Fund, there are agriculture and SMEs and all sorts of others, and there are also some green demonstration programmes, etc. We have quite a lot of people, and I have actually asked the Minister for Industry and Growth how many of those kinds of state lending opportunities there are. Is it a bad thing to go in and say that here we are correcting for a market error by risking some state funds in order to reap the gains that may be when companies export or grow big? Is it a number of funds, etc., that we should close down according to Conservatives' wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151750	It's not necessarily a bad thing. What is important is that, of course, state institutions are only established where the market is not working. And it has to be said that, in a situation of recession which we have had in which there have been very long lay times, one is, of course, a private provider of financing which operates in a commercial market where one also depends on being able to sell one's bonds, perhaps having to re-evaluate one's credit for a period of time. On the other hand, we now have a situation in which there is a different trend, where the business cycle is rising, and then we also see that the market is adapting to the new situation. In fact, as we move forward, all municipalities also see increased lending. So it's a sign that the market is working. What I think is important is that we support this development, that we ensure that we achieve growth throughout Denmark, and that it is in this way that we support the market which actually turns out to be well-functioning, as long as the business cycle points in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151852	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151854	One might say that the good economy in many other areas is also an argument that could be used. We have been putting forward this proposal five times over the last nine years, and it was absolutely impossible to use the arguments that the economy was fine, because it was absolutely not, and then it was that you should not interfere in the market, and now it is about some other things. Just to be absolutely sure: the rapporteur does not believe that there is a market error here, the rapporteur does not believe that there is a problem with people and companies with a healthy economy getting mortgages around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123151935	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we must bear in mind that, of course, there is no discrimination against postal numbers, and I think we can also say this openly to those who provide these credit facilities with mortgage loans, so that we do have an expectation that people will be treated fairly and equally. Having said that, however, as a private credit institution, one also has a special task in securing its risk portfolio, which is why we must be very careful to say that, because one has been refused, we are the best at assessing whether it was right to do so in relation to the overall risk portfolio. But of course it is important to treat people as just as you can now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152022	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. And then we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152040	Here we are again with the same proposal. And the reason why we have tabled it again by the SF is that we remain concerned. Our country is at risk of breaking in half when it has to be so difficult to get mortgage loans outside the big cities. Instead of resorting to expensive bank loans or mortgages, many simply do not have the opportunity to buy or sell. And this can have major consequences for the individual and his family, as well as a major problem for small businesses. This is true, for example. The saver Jan Hunter in Øster Brønderslev, who could not get a loan for his really thriving business. But then it became quite a sunshine story, because the local citizens of Øster Brønderslev could see that their merchant had to expand there was a good business and there was a breeding ground for it. And then a loan came to this grocery store. Of course, legislation should not be based on anecdotes. I was also able to tell another anecdote about an advisor. No, I guess it's no longer called a mortgage seller for one of the largest companies in Denmark, who came to me after a debate meeting and said that he actually thought it was extremely embarrassing, but that he needed to ease his heart. He had been told that up in North Jutland there were these black spots on the map, and it didn't matter what kind of economy people had, so they didn't borrow out here. And he was actually going down to give a craftsman a refusal today, although there were no economic reasons for it. If we are to have a coherent Denmark, development must take place throughout the country. And growth does not quite reach where there are problems today if it becomes impossible to settle or operate elsewhere than in the larger cities. If we do nothing, we end up with a Denmark that breaks over. And that's why we've again tabled this bill. I would like to comment briefly on some of the comments that have fallen. Some of this is about the fact that this time we have put forward a rather broad proposal, unlike the other times when we have been very, very specific and said that this is the model we can take in terms of securing mortgages. It does not have to be state; it may be private funds, but the intention is to create a framework to ensure that you can get mortgages if you have a healthy economy throughout the country. It didn't really go four times. Then we thought that now we are trying something new; now we are making a very broad formulation. If everyone agrees that we have a problem, we call on the government to sit down and make a proposal on how to solve this problem. But, of course, in the comments we provide a concrete framework for how such a model might look. For example: could one imagine that this mortgage institution would have some other requirements for lay times, that it would only be fixed-rate loans without any repayment period and that one could only borrow up to, for example, the amount of the loan. 60% or 70%. Then we also get completely out of the question of defining what are outermost regions, what are there, and what are there, because this is simply a lower loan than many would be able to get those places where there are shorter lay times and where it is easier to get loans because an apartment in Copenhagen, the day after you buy it, has become significantly more valuable. I think we are going into a lot of detail, rather than seeking a common understanding that this remains a problem. If there was a common understanding of it, we could sit down and say: How do we solve it? Then we could look at the concrete proposal that might exist and clarify whether there are State aid problems or something else. I think that some people, and I have to say here, have really annoyed me in relation to DF's efforts to ridicule a proposal which several bourgeois mayors think is a necessity and which the Joint Council of Rural Regions has said could be a good idea. Because there's a concern in many places out there. I think that's too bad. Instead, it should be said that there is a problem; let us resolve it together. I've asked each one of you if you think there was a problem or not. I think it is quite important for the debate to clarify that. From the side of the Conservatives and the Left and the Danish People's Party I think the Social Democratic Party was somewhat more nuanced there was no problem. From the point of view of the alternative, there seems to be a problem, on the part of the Enhedslisten, there seems to be a problem, and also on the part of the Radical Left and, indeed, on the part of the Social Democrats. When you are in that place, you can start thinking about solutions. It doesn't have to be this, it could be another or a third. That is why I would like to sign for the support of the Social Democratic Party, in relation to the fact that we are looking at this whole area again. Some of the arguments have also been, one might say almost liberal ideologically, we should not touch the market, there are no market failures, we should not interfere. As I have mentioned several times, I find it interesting that you can have the Growth Fund and the Market Development Fund and EKF Denmark's Export Credit and demonstration programmes, and I do not know what. This is all a good idea, and we support it from the SF in general terms. But why do we do that? There's a market failure. And then we go in and say: we would like to give some state-guaranteed loans, we would like to create a fund where we ensure that some of those who cannot get loans from ordinary banks and mortgages, for example. agriculture, through the Growth Fund can borrow some money. There is no problem, you can get involved in the market. But here, where it is people and small, small businesses, i.e. those you do not see in the Growth Fund and elsewhere, you should not go in with a helping hand when there are market failures when there is no interest in borrowing out. As I said in one of the comments made to a colleague before, this is, as far as I remember, the fifth time we have put it here in nine years. It is true that the economy has improved, but then there is urbanisation and centralisation, and I would like to sign up for the government's relocation of state jobs, but that is not enough. That is why I regret that we in Denmark have a little let down, what can not stand-approach. In e.g. Norway is making a huge effort to ensure that people are able to live and work throughout the country, and it is a much larger country than Denmark. I think it's really bad, and this would cost so little. Finally, I would like to say that several people have called it a state bank. Our proposal does not say anything about this; it might as well be private funds. But we think that from in here we should create a framework that can ensure that also where the lay times, for example, are. is relatively long, you can buy and sell homes if you have the economy to do so. Then I would like to thank specifically the Enhedslisten and the alternative for the support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152854	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152858	Thank you. It was because the rapporteur finally mentioned that it was nowhere in the motion for a resolution that it was supposed to be the state that had to step in with these 1-2 billion. kr. However, if you look at column two of the comments on the proposal, you can see that it says: "To the extent that the Institute cannot be fully financed by private funds, the State must step in with the capital of deposits...·. Isn't that state capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123152927	I don't know if sir. His Kristian Skibby got the wrong leg out of bed today. I really think that this is an unconstructive way of discussing, and it goes on and on. What I said was that the mortgage credit institution didn't have to be government. Now, Mr. Knox... Hans Kristian Skibby nevertheless reads from the proposal, he will also see that it says that there will be good opportunities to attract private capital, for example. from pension funds. And then the state can provide deposits in addition. But there are plenty of corporate models or foundations, which are not a genuine state model, but where one nevertheless contributes. I don't know why, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is out to find hair in the soup if it is because he is not really happy to be so negative about a resolution that is about helping people and small businesses in rural areas. Perhaps the voters of the Danish People's Party have another expectation of the party, I do not know, but I have rarely experienced such an unconstructive debate as today. Actually, I think it's pretty surprising.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153037	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153038	Well, I'm sorry if the SF's rapporteur thinks I've got the wrong leg out of bed. I know I got both legs out of bed, I can then, as such, provide a service. I am not angry or angry, but the rapporteur said that it was not state funds. Then I ask, out of courtesy and curiosity, whether it does not say at the very end that the state should I put a factual question to the remarks in the resolution. The rapporteur then decides not to answer that question, and then I am told that I am standing too early or too late or too late, and I do not know what. I just asked quite quietly whether the wording should not be used by state means. That's all I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153121	First, the questioner said that it should be a government mortgage institution. Then I said: no, it should not, but if there are insufficient funds, there may be a government deposit of 1 or 2 billion. kr. Now I hope I've made it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153141	At least no one else has asked for brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If there are no objections, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153203	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153231	SF has proposed an ÅOP ceiling for quick loans of 15%. over the discount account. The aim is to protect vulnerable consumers from obtaining expensive consumer loans. Furthermore, the proposers consider that the 48-hour period introduced does not work. There are several indications that this is a market in which more consumers find themselves in difficulties with repeated consumer loans. There are many who find it difficult to cope with monthly payments, and there are many who subsequently regret that they took up the loan. In addition, consumers typically do not consider alternatives other than the relatively expensive consumer loan they take up. I agree that there is a need for well-dosed consumer protection in the consumer loan market. That is why the report period was introduced at the beginning of 2017. However, I believe that a real price ceiling, such as an ÅOP ceiling, is too intrusive a step. An ÅOP ceiling of 15%. This would mean that some people would lose the opportunity to obtain loans altogether, even if they had an urgent borrowing requirement and could pay interest and repayment. It is also unclear what kind of loans the resolution should actually hit. This will be a very intrusive regulation of the many in order to protect the few. What is crucial is that consumers have time to think about when they take up fast consumer loans. I would like consumers to use the report period to act as active consumers and to search the market for the best opportunities. That is why I believe that consumer protection in the form of a period of reflection rather than an ÅOP ceiling is preferable. The report period was introduced with the aim of giving consumers an extra chance to think. However, it now appears that the rules cover only a very small part of the market. We can also see that the response of the market to the report period is new types of loans with a longer maturity, which means that these loans are not covered by the report period. And there it is important that we find a balance so that we do not completely close the market to the many borrowers who need these loans, but ensure sensible consumer protection. So my answer here is that we are trying to make the report period more effective. I have asked the Competition and Consumer Authority to examine developments on the market since the introduction of the report period. I expect the study to be available soon, it will shed light on things and show whether there is a need for adaptation of the report period, and it will show what opportunities there are for making the report period more effective. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153510	There is a request for a number of brief comments, and that is first Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153516	Thank you for your speech, Minister. That wasn't surprising. However, I would like to know whether the Minister could be lured into supporting the proposal if that were a different line. This is 15 percent. over the national bank's discount account at any time, and thus the dependence on a specific interest rate level is not so great. Should it be 20%. or 30%.? I ask because we have found examples of loans where there is an ÅOP of 3,000 per cent, so I think we might find each other somewhere within that span, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153607	I am always receptive to good arguments, and I can always be lured into good political agreements, but that is the whole principle that if you set a maximum ÅOP ceiling, the market tends to approach that ceiling and then it becomes the market price, and then you put the market out of business. You could say that there are a lot of consumers who need these loans. What I would like to look at and also very much like to talk to SF and other parliamentary parties about is to make the period of the report more effective, because there is no doubt that what we have seen since the period of the report was introduced is that some of the loans have been converted into some other types of loans, which have meant that there is no real reflection time for some consumers at least. I think we should look at that when the Competition and Consumer Authority has completed their investigations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153704	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153707	It has to be said that there is a little to give if the ceiling today is 3 000 per cent. for the loan that I have found and which, after all, was also the most extreme. But it's the norm that they are 700-800 per cent, so I just have to understand it that way at the Minister's office and in parentheses noted, the Consumer Council supports Think about some kind of model in this direction... that the minister just disagrees in principle with making any kind of ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153748	The experience of looking at ceilings, and that is also in other respects, is that the ceiling becomes the norm, which means that there is no market anymore. Let's say you put it on x per cent, then that would be normal, and where is the market, and where is the competition then? So that is the most important argument, I think, against putting in such a maximum limit. The second is that there are some consumers who need that loan. They may need to buy a bed quickly if they get an apartment, it may be, they need to buy something for the children, it may be, there are other important things they need, and if you go in and set some maximum limits for something that makes some families then cannot take out the loans, you hamper their chances of living a decent life. Where we can make protection, and where I think it is necessary and right, is in relation to the time of the report, so you have an overview of what you really pay for this, what the alternative is to take this type of quick loan in relation to another type of loan, and there I would like to safeguard the period of the report, so that as a consumer you can see what this really costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153852	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153858	To begin with, I just have a factual question for the Minister. Can the Minister confirm that it would be legal to introduce such a ceiling that it would not be contrary to Danish or European legislation? And can the Minister also confirm that such a ceiling exists in a number of other Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153924	At first sight, I see no obstacle to the introduction of such a ceiling. But of course I will have to look into that and also talk to the Ministry of Justice about it. But like the layman I am up here as a minister for the area, I do not think there should be anything to prevent it, in other words legally, but of course you have to ask the Ministry of Justice about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153943	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123153945	Thank you. The second question concerns the fact that there have been proposals to ban at least the very offensive advertising of these products. This has been compared to the ban we have on tobacco advertising, because this is a product as harmful as tobacco. What is the Minister's position on such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154012	I would be against that at first sight. Now there are a lot of theoretical questions. I think that what should be kept in mind is that when there is a palette of different options for consumers, we also provide consumers with better opportunities to go for the things they need. I mentioned before that it may be that you need to help your children if they leave home. It may be that you need some other things that enable you to live a normal life in your home. And there may not be a chance to go down to the bank and borrow that money, and there could be a so-called quick loan. But the important thing is that you have the opportunity to think. Therefore, the focus that I have is that there is a safeguard and integrity in relation to the 48-hour period of the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154051	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154054	Thank you. I have always believed that the Conservatives are the party that takes care of the weak and when we want to set a ceiling on ÅOP for example. Three thousand, that is to say we want to get rid of it and have it at 15 instead, is it because we want to protect the consumer. I also believe that this is why the Consumer Council is backing this, because it is a proposal that should help protect consumers, but delicate souls in particular, from getting involved in some of the loans that they potentially cannot pay back. Now the Minister says that what can happen with ceilings is that then everyone will put the ÅOP in line with the ceiling now set. If we were to follow that line of thought, we would think that because we set a ceiling of 15, everyone would actually do it. Then I would like to ask: does the Minister actually think that everyone would do it? Secondly, the Minister says that there is experience in the industry or with ceilings at all. Can the Minister mention some places where ceilings have been set and where it can then be seen that this was the case, in other words that it was then adjusted according to the ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154201	Do I think they'll do it? Yes, because it's normal, and it's tradition that you go to where the ceiling is, because it's like where you can make the most profit out of what you do. What is the challenge in that is that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it, we are going to have to do something about it. had it on the 15%, it would certainly mean that some of those who need such a loan could not get it because there would be another type of credit rating for them. It's always the market that gets made. I also think it's completely hollow in the head, completely crazy that you can have up to • I haven't seen it myself, but it's SF's rapporteur that she's seen 3,000 percent. That's totally, totally surreal crazy. But one must also strike one's own brain when one is a consumer and look at where it is that one can get a lower interest rate. That is why that period of reflection is there, and that is why it must also be protected and there must be protection for that period of reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154259	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154302	These are very interesting things the Minister says, but the Minister says they need those loans, in other words that some people need those loans. Yes, they need loans and they need financial help, but surely they do not need a loan that necessarily has an ÅOP of 100 per cent. They might as well need one that had 15%. In fact, I think they would have a more stable economy in the future. So do we not have an obligation to ensure that families who are so desperate that they will take such crazy loans are actually protected? The second point is that the Minister is talking about credit ratings. Does the Minister believe that it will change the credit rating these institutions or banks will make if they change from 100 per cent? in ÅOP to 15%.? Why does the Minister say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154351	I am interested in finding a balance in which we do not completely close the market to many borrowers and at the same time ensure reasonable consumer protection, because of course there must be reasonable consumer protection. We can't just leave this to the Wild West, understood in the sense that you get up on an AOP of 3,000 if that's the case. This is crazy, as I said. But if you have 48 hours of reflection, you can shop around and see where you can get the cheapest possible product, because there are families who need that product for a shorter period of time if they need a bed, or they need something for their kitchen or at least help their family members.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154439	No one else has any questions, so we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154448	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Social Democrat consumer rapporteur, I am going to make the speech today, and I must say to my fellow Members that I am also allowed to ask questions. Thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. The Socialists agree that this is a quick loan market, which seems quite incalculable when it comes to the borrowers' overview of annual costs. It sounds tempting when you can borrow in a hurry for whatever you want, and many are lured into impulsive and unthinkable borrowings. But the money has to be paid back in a short time and with interest rates and a number of costs which can put the borrower in an incalculable situation with a debt which, unfortunately, has proved to be very, very difficult to get out of for too many Danes. We therefore agree with the SF that action should be taken, but we will probably intervene a little more fundamentally here on the part of the Danish Parliament. A ceiling on ÅOP is one of the tools that can be used. That's how far we agree. We also know that a ceiling on ÅOP is an effective tool for protecting consumers. However, the opinion of the Consumer Council Think underlines that the ceiling cannot stand alone. It is also a question of where the ceiling should be. The ceiling should not, on the one hand, be so high that the current practice of the companies will just remain unchanged, i.e.. loans with a lax credit rating. On the other hand, the ceiling should not be so low that companies cannot operate a loan and I therefore mean a rather serious lending business. We in the Social Democratic Party want to see a number of other areas addressed which play a major role in quick loans. A year ago, as was also mentioned by the Minister, the Folketing adopted a legislative amendment designed to ensure that citizens who wanted to borrow a quick loan could not receive the loan until after 48 hours of reflection. After all, we did it to help the weak souls to think and rethink carefully whether it really was a loan that was urgent to take up. The intention of the legislative action was to put an end to impulsive quick loans, but it has unfortunately turned out that a number of lending companies are circumventing the law by issuing bank credits instead of granting loans. This allows them to pay out the money immediately. As has also been mentioned, there are other ways of circumventing the law. I think we should look at what the Minister is also proposing, namely a study. And when it's done, we'll see how we can take action against this creativity we've seen in the market. The problem of lending companies not knowing how many loans a borrower already has must also be solved, we think on the part of the Social Democrats. It is often weak citizens who seek quick loans. It is citizens who do not have an overview of their own economic situation. It is citizens who are under pressure of debt and it is citizens who are guided by their desire to buy new things. That is why it is necessary for us to ensure from a legislative point of view that an unlimited number of quick loans cannot be drawn up, simply because the lending companies cannot see where, moreover, loans have been drawn up and how much one's debt really is. There is what is called credit status, which is a system that works well. This is where loans granted are recorded, and here is an overview of a person's debt. The problem, however, is that it is not a system for lending companies to be connected, but something that they can be connected to, and that is by no means everyone. We need here from the Folketing to ensure compulsory registration for such a system that lending companies can see how much debt the person already has. In other words, it is not enough to regulate ÅOP costs alone, as is envisaged in this resolution. Social democracy supports the basic ideas contained in the proposal, but we believe that we need to have a far more fundamental root of the evil, so that we have clear and secure rules for both citizens and lending companies, and that is why the Social Democrats do not support the resolution. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who has been called to negotiations in the Ministry of Defence since the legal procedure we had before. He will say that he will be able to support the speech I have made here for the Social Democratic Party. So the Social Democrats and the Radical Left are largely in agreement on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154916	A brief comment has been asked about Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123154920	I mean, I may not be so surprised by the Radicals, but I am surprised by the Social Democrats, especially because we have been strongly inspired by the Social Democrats' own proposal to cap the annual percentage cost of consumer loans with a maximum limit above the discount rate of 15%. Well, then why isn't this the case anymore? That is a slightly older proposal. The proposers were Benny Engelbrecht, Yildiz Akdogan, Henrik Dam Kristensen and others. The rhetoric is different etc., but basically it says: A ceiling on ÅOP for consumption loans of 15%. over the discount account. Why isn't that true anymore? I am truly surprised that the Socialists do not support it, and that is why I am asking and using the occasion today for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155022	As I also expressed in my speech, ÅOP is something that may be a component of something broader that we need to do in this area here. After all, we have seen a dramatic development in this lending market in recent years. I believe that the proposer himself says that it has grown explosively from constituting, what is it, 136,000 loans in 2014 to constituting a total amount of loans on, I think it is something about approx. 430 million kr., and this is a violent development compared to what we saw just 4-5 years earlier. That is why we fully acknowledge from the Social Democrats that we have once made the second proposal. But we must also recognise today that with the way in which the credit market is conducted, there is probably a need for a slightly broader approach and not just to look at the ÅOP.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155112	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155113	Well, I agree with all that. There are many areas. Well, we also need to make sure that children and young people have a better understanding of what the small stuff means, what ÅOP means, and all this. It's really important. But to be able to get a limit in where you can say that you will then put an end to that and that limit could also be 20%, which is still far up to what is normal, namely 700-800 per cent, and the examples we have seen are 3000 per cent. So I just can't understand it. This could be one of several steps, and we could do all the other. In fact, I agree with the Socialist rapporteur that we should also look at everything else. But when you have made a proposal yourself where we thought it would be a good proposal and that we would like to put it forward some years later with the same percentage and then you cannot support it here, then I simply do not understand what has happened in those years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155209	But it is that things in society are evolving, even though from here we can retable the same motion for a resolution year after year. And what we have taken away from the Social Democrats is that there has been a sharp increase in reality in this market. And there are some behavior patterns that make us think that we might need to strike a little wider with different actions. Perhaps then, at some point, if the government wants to join it, we can create a single package so that we can ensure that we jointly adopt something from here that can apply in this assembly and also on the other side of a parliamentary election. I think it would be best if we could adopt such legislation so that both citizens and companies know what they have to do with regard to whatever the majority is in Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155257	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155300	Thank you. Yes, things are evolving, and I am also a little surprised by the rapporteur's position, because when I proposed it here in the press in May 2017, there was immediate support for the Social Democracy proposal, at least according to TV 2. So this market goes fast. I am, of course, a little sorry about this, because I believe that this is actually something that could actually have helped to protect consumers. When I think so, it is because if you look at both the Netherlands and Germany and more of the other European countries where you have introduced such a ceiling, there are people who know more than I do, for example. someone who is a partner in what is called Mybanker, who has said in some of these articles, that it has put a dampening on the market, i.e. the quick loan market, whereas in Denmark there has been a blossoming. What does the rapporteur actually think about the ceiling which the Social Democratic Party has been for in the past, but which is now no longer in favour and which has been introduced in other countries, has actually dampened the quick-loan market in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155357	Let me just comment on that with a TV 2 article from May 2017. I spoke to my colleague and consumer rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, before I went to the Chamber today. I called her because she is abroad and asked if she had been out to indicate that we supported this proposal. She didn't. And I didn't do it myself. There's no quote from the Social Democratic Party in that article, so I don't know if I'm gonna have a talk with the journalist about how it might have happened, but at least we haven't signed up in May 2017. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, this may well be part of an overall package, but I just think that we should use more instruments because we see that the latest thing we have done, namely this 48-hour rule, is something that has been bypassed by the fact that there has been a creativity in the market. I therefore think that we should look at some analyses if the Minister can provide them and that we should then sit down and see if we can make an overall agreement in this area. I think that would be best for citizens, consumers, and for businesses, so that they know what they have to do with, if we can make a broad settlement in here, because then it is not the case that we have to run around and change the policy, although hopefully the majority will change after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155509	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155511	Thank you. It's an honest case about TV 2. I do not know what has happened there, but I can at least say that I come from such a pragmatic party that when we can get just a little of our policy through, we usually vote in favour, even if we would like more. So I am a little surprised that you do not vote for this if you actually think it is a good proposal. So I just want to hear: when it cannot stand alone or if you are to see it in a broader picture, as the Social Democrat rapporteur says, what is needed? So what is missing so that the Social Democrats can back this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155544	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I actually made some suggestions, for example. the fact that the lenders should have a duty to have this system so that they could go in and check, when they got a loan application, whether this person has taken out quick loans in ten other places and has a total debt of a high, high amount and at a high interest rate, because then it's probably not one you have to go in and give a loan. It was one of those things. Then I think we should get that 48-hour rule in such a way that you can't bypass it. I also hear from the Minister in his speech that this is what the Minister is examining, so that, with some concrete knowledge, we can also make improved legislation. So I actually think there are several places we can put in. We should not distrust the intentions of the Social Democratic Party in this area at all. We think it is weak people who are being exploited by some usurers and, unfortunately, the usurer's clause that we have in our legislation and which the SF also has with its proposal is not one that is being used in any way. Perhaps we should look at how we can just specifically update this quick loan market law so that we don't see these usurers getting ahead and making a lot of money on weak souls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155708	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155709	There's a slight contradiction, I think. Now I know that the rapporteur is a substitute for the real rapporteur, but that is to say, if you really think it is a problem and I hear the rapporteur thinks it is a usury business, you should do something about it. I mean, every day, people get hurt because of this. Now a proposal has been made and it is said that it will not be supported because you want a proposal containing even more things. Can we then expect the rapporteur's party to take the initiative to at least do something about this, or is it just, to be honest, a free round from the platform today? In other words, will the Socialists take the initiative either to call for negotiations or to call on the government to negotiate, or to table a motion for a resolution independently down here, possibly in cooperation with some of the other parties who agree that this is a problem, in order to do something about it? Otherwise, it seems strange to say that you have a problem but will not support a proposal that you yourself have made in the past in an almost identical version.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155810	I think that, fortunately, when we have had the Minister speaking first, as is the practice of motions for resolutions, we should also take note of what the Minister says. It was actually said that the Minister is in the process of obtaining information on what is happening in this market, among other things. Compared to the 48-hour rule. And, as I hear the Minister, there is also a call for action to be taken on this. So the eternally pragmatic social democrat here will, of course, reach out if the government invites negotiations in this area, so that we can correct the legislation and ensure that no one, like today, goes out on this market and commits usury to some weak souls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155854	Second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155858	Thank you. But what I hear the Minister say is that you're going to look at this with the time perspective, so there's going to be this time of reflection. But does the rapporteur think that is enough? The rapporteur's party has in the past put forward a proposal that we should look at putting a ceiling on this. But even if one gets the time of reflection, will that be enough to stop this usurping?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123155923	No. I refer again to the rapporteur's speech. And as I also say, there's this credit system that you might be able to make demands on the lenders that they should orient themselves in when they get a loan application. I think that would be very restrictive in relation to whether people who already have a very uncertain economy are going to take out some more loans with very, very high interest rates. And then hopefully we can wrap this 48-hour rule in. Now the Minister mentions the duration of the loan, but there is also the fact that it has been circumvented by defining the loan as a bank overdraft. I think we should try to solve that in the same moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160004	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160013	Well, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to acknowledge that the SF has taken the initiative to raise the important debate we have here in the Danish Parliament about whether the credit is under control, I would have almost said, in relation to quick loans. We have to say that there is not, as it were, a good opportunity for us to discuss it here today. The question then is whether we can support a resolution containing a ceiling on what interest rates must be on lending money in Denmark, and the answer is that the Danish People's Party cannot. Borrowing money is not a public task. What is a public task is to ensure that there is sufficient good legislation which, of course, also serves consumers and protects them from, among other things. Weeds. The legislation in relation to the criminal code has since 1975 provided for a penalty clause that, if you commit usury, you can be sanctioned. I am actually aware of a judgment not long ago in which a company was convicted of usury in connection with loans. So it is not something that is used quite often, but it also requires, of course, that someone raises matters, even when you think that you pay too much, too much for your quick loans. We also have the Court of Appeal of Finance companies set up to deal with cases which may be raised by consumers if they consider that they are subject to unfair conditions and, among other things, to unfair conditions. For what tangles usury, too. Because of course we agree that no one should be able to look forward to having to pay a percentage of 3,000 for a loan. That is certainly not our policy. But what the SF is proposing is that we set a definite ceiling. We in the Danish People's Party do not think this is the right medicine. We would like to be involved in a ban on, for example, banning the use of hormones. may offer such loans to people registered in RKI or in other institutes of the same kind. We would also like to help tighten up the provisions of the Credit Agreement Act in order to ensure that the 48-hour clause which we introduced not so terribly long ago also works absolutely as intended, since the intention was that with the delay in the payment of the money, consumers should be given some sort of right of withdrawal. The Danish People's Party also wants to help ensure better register access between the various institutions and companies that lend money. We would also like to help improve the credit rating by increasing access for institutions to registers across different companies. We would also like to be involved in ensuring that the Danish People's Party's Board of Finance is promoted far more than they are today, so that consumers also know that there is indeed an appeal board for the activities of financial companies, to which you can then go, if you think you are exposed to usury and the like. Such things we think are far, far more important for this area than that we legislate for a rich percentage ceiling for what you have to take at loan rates. Because if we set a cap of 15%... In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, the various players who conduct these types of loans on the Quick Loan market will all almost implicitly settle on this maximum from day one. That is our claim, and I have no evidence of it. This is something that, in time, it must prove to be a reality. Time will have to show it if it becomes the legislation that will eventually apply in Denmark. However, as it is now, we cannot see ourselves in an agreement to legislate and dictate what interest rates must be on quick loans, car loans, mortgage loans or all sorts of other types of loans. It's a private task to borrow money. As I said at the beginning, it is not a public task to borrow money. What we need to ensure and provide is that the legislation is correct and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the first, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160505	Thank you. Once again, I simply have to say that it is so funny every time the DF's rapporteur says that it is not enough that we give up lending money when we have a host of loan pools, foundations, state banks that lend to companies for many good reasons. I'm sorry, it had to go out. I think it is very funny every time the DF's rapporteur says so. Back to this. In fact, I would like to thank you for your speech. I think there were several areas where Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby mentioned some things we could do. I would also like to accept that if there are some things we can do together. I just want to hear something basically. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby said that an AOP of 3,000 was too much, that it was usurers. That's how I heard it. But that you shouldn't interfere with what AOP should be, what the interest rate should be. So does DF believe in principle that you should not go in and set a usurer's limit? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160616	I really think that is quite clearly stated in the SF's own written comments on the proposal. It says that since 1975 the criminal code has a criminal law provision which illegals usury. And, of course, we must ensure that it is applied. You might think it's funny or it's not funny. The rapporteur mentions that it should be fun that we have market development funds in Denmark and that we have Growth Fund and Danish Growth Capital and everything else. Now I do not think it can be compared, for many of these market development funds and growth guarantees and growth loans etc. has, of course, supported Denmark over the last 10 years, when we have experienced a financial crisis. If we want to defend and preserve Danish jobs, to expand them and ensure that there is innovation in the Danish labour market too, then that is a good way to invest. It is, in fact, an offensive investment which has also proved to be economically sustainable. It is not the case that the Growth Fund has lost money. It is, in fact, the case that we can take money out of the Growth Fund and generate it over to, among other things. other tasks that I know the SF doesn't agree with the rest of us. But these are some places where you borrow money or invest offensively to create jobs and jobs in Denmark. There are not so many jobs and jobs out of granting quick loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160739	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160739-2	This is a completely different discussion. But from the SF we support many of these funds. I just think it's a little odd that DF always says that the state shouldn't interfere in lending money except in all the 16 good areas where we have funds. But that is not what we are talking about today. We are talking about what to do about the fact that we have an exploding market where people are being indebted; in some places it is part of the business model to speculate that people cannot pay back. Is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby realizes that 30%. of earnings comes from fees that have to be paid because people cannot comply with the deadlines that have been given? Well, that's a third of the turnover. It's crazy that you can recognise it as a business model to make money from having some customers who can't pay on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160836	It is actually quite entertaining that the SF's rapporteur, in his question to the undersigned, starts by mentioning something that should be fun • The market value fund, the Growth Fund and all that and then says that this is not what we are talking about today. Oh, my God. Why do you mention it from the SF? I simply do not understand that. I can at least confirm that the fees received from defaulted loans and so on. constitutes a considerable income for financial institutions in Denmark. That is not something the rapporteur needs to ask me, because it is general knowledge, I think, for most, at least those in here who are rapporteurs in the fields of finance, banking, insurance, etc. So I can safely confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted
ParlaMint-DK_20180123160921	If the SF's rapporteur mentioned the state credit companies in question, it is because the rapporteur said that the rapporteur did not believe that it was the task of the state to lend money and to carry on credit business. But let it go, because that is not what this proposal is all about. This proposal is about regulating private credit companies because we have got an industry in the financial sector that feeds on people who are being cheated; who live on and have as a business model that people have to get into, so they're going to pay much more for their loans than is reasonable; who operate with that they have huge losses, but as long as they get one of these people and make them pay interest and interest rates, up to 3,500 in ÅOP, they can make a good business model. And then we have the Danish People's Party, which basically refuses to do anything effective about this. I would just like to hear: is solidarity all the way over with these usurers, or should we perhaps think about the other end, that is to say, the people, who are the ones who are exposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161046	Dialogue usually goes both ways, but now Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, that Dansk Folkeparti doesn't want to do anything about it, excuse me, but have you had your ears washed today? In fact, I think I spent a long time in my rapporteur's speech talking about a whole series of elements that we would very much like to look at. I specifically mentioned requests for a free lending market. Yes to the ban on lending to people in the RKI, yes to the tightening of the provisions of the Credit Agreement Act, in relation to the enforcement of the 48-hour rule, yes to ensuring better access to the records of the lending companies, yes to improved credit ratings, yes to strengthening the Ankeskab for Finance Companies. All these things I spent time telling you about in my rapporteur's speech, and then you just come and say: you won't do anything. I just think it's too arrogant. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161141	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161143	Fine, it's good that the Danish People's Party has some things you want to do. The problem with these things is that they're all little things. For example: Doesn't help access to RKI the citizen who takes one of these loans for the first time or who's not in RKI. These are all small things that will do something about the corners. This has been tried with a time of reflection; it has been tried. And these usurers are just remodelling, which is another example of how unsympathetic their business is and regulates around it, and then they offer the same types of products. Isn't it time for us to get to work properly and put an end to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161226	Yes, and that is also why I would like to say it again to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who obviously has not heard what I said • that I have just mentioned a large number of initiatives which I think will be entirely appropriate in relation to this. I could mention a few more if I have to. Credit warnings in the CPR system there, it would be excellent to go in with people who tend to be under-enhanced in relation to e.g. is debilitating, etc. There are a lot of people who get into trouble in this way too, because they're tempted by these loans. Then we have the opportunity to make these credit warning offers where you get registered in the CPR system. We also have the discussion on debt ceilings, so can you set a ceiling on interest on interest payments? Yeah, you can do that too. And we are all in favour of all these things, but we cannot support what is here, so that we need to legislate on ceilings on what a company has to take on interest rates. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161329	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have said, this is an extremely relevant issue that the SF raises. It is about quick loans and what consumer behaviour is on the market. I think we are all concerned that there are no Danes who take up consumer loans that they cannot repay, end up in RKI or otherwise get into financial trouble. This was also one of the reasons why the then Left Government took the initiative in 2016 to introduce a reflection period for short-term consumer loans of at least 48 hours. The proposal entered into force on 1 January 2017 and since then has functioned as a rule to prevent consumers from taking a quick loan without thinking about it; it was therefore an initiative that was taken to reduce the number of consumers who get into trouble because they act quickly and perhaps not so well considered. To this end, and not really anyone has mentioned this in the debate so far... the Consumer Ombudsman has agreed guidelines on credit rating with the industry, I think it was in May last year, precisely in order to ensure that there is a more real assessment of the credit rating of each borrower behind a loan. So we agree that it is important that we keep an eye on the problems faced by some citizens in the case of quick loans, but at the same time we also want to make it clear that there are citizens for whom it is a positive option that can benefit their economic situation, so that they have access to a different credit market than that of financial institutions alone, and there is, as far as the market is concerned, a demand for it. The proposal specifically to set a ceiling on the annual percentage rate of charge contains a number of problems which have been mentioned. This is a major interference in a free market with free pricing, because, as has already been said, there is always the risk that, in this case, when a ceiling is imposed on prices, interest rates and charges can actually weaken competition, and this may lead to a de facto level that will become a de facto level and that competition will be put out of business, and that is really the purpose of the proposal, but it can also weaken the individual consumer, and that may not be particularly appropriate. It also has the consequence that it may mean that certain persons are actually excluded from borrowing money on this market, since the price of the loan cannot necessarily be reflected in the risk which would otherwise normally be taken into account in relation to the economic situation in which the person may be in and, if he cannot cover his risk, he fails to grant a loan. And then there is the risk that, if we cannot borrow on a relatively well-regulated market, we are going to have a very little regulated market, a rather greyer market, and I certainly do not think there is anyone interested in us taking political initiatives in here that are luring people into borrowing money much more inappropriate places. Now, we in the Left think that the 48-hour period of reflection that we introduced was quite reasonable, and one can actually say that it has worked with unerring precision, because those loans hardly exist, and perhaps that is what is worth writing behind this ear, that is to say, when we have made some sort of regulation, there are some who think how to act on that market without being covered by that regulation. I would not say that the companies that are have bypassed the law, but they may have adapted to the law and made new products that are not covered by the rules. We must then politically do away with ourselves if it was our intention that instead of taking a short loan where there was 48 hours of reflection, we should have the opportunity to have a quick overdraft which was not covered by the rules. No, it wasn't our intention. It was our political desire to ensure that people had time to think, to examine the market, to find out whether this was now the most appropriate way to borrow the money, and thus to have a real reflection time of 48 hours. That is why I am glad that the Minister says that this is something we are looking at, in other words how we can ensure that the intentions behind the reflection period are, of course, actually reflected, so that we do not just invent new products which really mean that the reflection time has no effect. So, on this basis, and with a whole series of further arguments that time does not allow us to discuss, we in the Left do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161841	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123161843	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for his speech, in which he said that there was a risk of getting a market where there was no competition if you went this way. However, the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency's report, called the Quick Loan Market, states that the market is a concentrated market and that the two largest suppliers together account for around 80%. of total loans, etc. etc. They say that there is no healthy and good competition on the market. There are a few players, and two of them account for 80%, and then you just don't get to knock each other down. Well, you don't get a market where you can say that even if you need a quick loan, because of the competition you can choose the cheapest. I have a question for the rapporteur of the Left, and I will actually concentrate on the usury provision. We have an usurer's clause, and the one question is: should we keep it? If the answer is yes, should it be extended? Because it's practically useless today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162020	It is true that we have a usurer's paragraph, which has very, very many years on the back, and if I remember fairly correctly, it is not many cases that can be found where people have been convicted for violating the usurer's paragraph. I think it is important that we ensure that people think well. It's basically the best defense. It has also been mentioned that as a consumer one should remember to read it small. That is why we have the concept of ÅOP, so that as a consumer you can get a very simple overview of what a loan really costs, and that nothing is called interest, something for fees and something for everything else, but that it is an overall concept. I think that is important. For transparency is one of the most important things to ensure competition, and I think that is something we are working for in general, and it will also be attractive in this area. It can be said that if we make further regulations on the market it is such a general and fundamental discussion that now, at least, is not usually conducive to more players coming in and thus increasing competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162131	Thank you. Can the rapporteur remember the event that we both attended a number of months ago, in the autumn, which was just about quick loans? There was a debt advisor who said: we usually use the argument that we have to keep people in this relatively orderly world, as quick loans are, to make sure they don't get into the biker market. And then she said: Now it is simply cheaper to borrow on the black market. It was not a recommendation, but it is quite absurd that you have professional debt advisers, people employed in the municipalities, because whole families can be broken up when there is economic ruin that says: you can get a better deal on the black market. Is that not a sign that something is wrong and that we need to do something more than what we have done? Because I agree that the 48-hour rule has not helped, at least not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162232	I think it is important that we ensure that there is a wide range of financial opportunities, loan opportunities, available to citizens, because the needs are very different. The reason I mentioned it with an unregulated market is that the worst thing that can happen is that we get rules made so that it is not ÅOP, i.e. annual costs in percentage, but ÅOF, i.e. annual costs in finger joints, which will be the price of a loan, and I am glad to hear the debate and the conference that we had in mind that the debt advisors' experience that people have landed out there is not so great. But it may also be that if you've gotten out there, maybe it's harder to go down to a debt advisor and say: I just have a loan of DKK 40,000, which I owe to some people who run around in some slightly heavy jackets with some capital letters on their backs. That is why we need to ensure that there is transparency, proper competition and that consumers make an informed choice and a well-considered choice, and that is why, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are also ready to look at how the intentions behind the 48-hour report can be translated into relation to the new types of loans that have come, so that there will be the consideration of consumers. I think we all agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162347	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to Mr. Enhedslisten's. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162348	Thank you very much. This proposal to set a ceiling on the annual costs or the price, we can just call it a quick loan, which SF has put forward, is a perfectly sensible and good proposal. It is so good that I wish we had tabled it ourselves or had been asked whether we would be co-sponsors, and we can at least support it. For this is a very serious problem where real, very many Danes end up in difficulties with a growing debt of interest and interest rates and debt collection fees, and it hits hard-hit socially vulnerable people. It's not up north of Copenhagen, people take quick loans. They'll get a good low-interest loan down in the local bank branch, but those who take these loans are typically people who can't get that type of loan. These are people who cannot understand their economic situation; they are people who cannot understand the consequences and then end up in these problems, and the whole business model on which this is based is based on some getting into difficulties. It is based on the fact that some losses can be endured because others will have to pay interest and interest and penalty interest in order not to repay. You can see that, too, if you look at the figures shown in the observations of the proposal, i.e. how many it is that actually comes into payment difficulties. It's a usurer business, and I can hardly come up with a more unsympathetic business model and business than this one, at least not in the legal market. Then we're gonna go talk drug trafficking and other things. Serving on people's social vulnerability and on their problems and putting them in an impossible debt situation is simply so unsympathetic that we should not allow it to happen at all in Denmark. When you then try to legislate and say 'and then it was also on the part of the same parties that no, no, we must not set a ceiling on interest rates, we are introducing a period of reflection, the first thing these companies are doing to sign off on the need for the industry to bypass the rules and just offer some new loans that put even more people in trouble. That's why you should hit this company hard. Because we shouldn't have that kind of usury business in Denmark at all. We must, as we do in so many other areas where we regulate everything from fireworks to traffic laws and to speed limits on the roads, politically dare to go in and intervene when someone has a business model that is detrimental to a great many people and to our society. That is why I think it is a pity that there is a little of this automatic rejection, and I think that some of the arguments that have been put into question are bad, that is to say the Minister's argument that if you set a ceiling, everyone will lie down there. You don't put the competition out of hand because you set an upper ceiling. It is not the case that Danske Bank will suddenly set all its overdraft interest rates up to that level if they can win some customers at a lower level. I do not think that will be the case. Then there is the fact that we are sending people out into what the rapporteur of the Left called it was the ÅOF, that is to say, sending people who, for example, are sending people. have debts, out to criminals with biker marks on their backs, and then they will not be able to borrow, or they will get their fingertips cut off. I have the impression that, hopefully, we have some authorities who are taking action against this kind of thing, and it should not be by offering another miserable product that puts people in trouble, that we are fighting biker crime and illegal usury. So basically, I think it is a very good proposal and I think it is very good that some other things have been put on the table, both in terms of tightening the rules in relation to the period of reflection and also a number of the proposals put forward by DF's rapporteur. Then you just have to take it seriously. Then the Danish People's Party must come up with a motion for a resolution or, as a parliamentary basis, demand that the government call for negotiations on it here. Because I think it is so often that we are standing down here and that someone is making a proposal, and one rapporteur after another stands up here and gives a lot of other good ideas about what to do and then votes against the proposal and then nothing more happens. I just think that maybe, and I'm sure it's true of me, I'm sorry I'm saying, but it's a commitment... Time's up too) and time's up too, but we're gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162920	Although it is unclear, it is very good to stop now. There are also no brief comments, so thank you to Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123162925	Thank you for that, President. We cannot support this resolution. This may not come as a great surprise to the motion for a resolution, but we cannot do so. Interest is the price of borrowing money, and the price reflects among other things. the risk of borrowing the money. And it is our fundamental conviction that it is a stupid idea for politicians to interfere in price formation on the market. I cannot really give examples of how this has been a success. These debates are always based on those who do not pay their quick loans, but that does about 90 per cent. Actually. 90% of those who borrow money pay the money back. Should we then go in and make legislation on the basis of those, the small minority, who cannot find a way of complying with the agreements they have entered into? Actually, I don't think we should. I think it is such a matter of principle that legislation should not always take into account the lowest common denominator, but should take account of the large majority which, in this case, can actually find a way of complying with the agreements they have concluded. It's also kind of funny that SF chooses 15%. Because if you, as a regular employee, overstretch your account, and if you have a overdraft, if you overstretch your overdraft, you pay much, much more than 15%. in AOP. Will the SF also set a price cap on the interest you pay when you overdraft your account? That's a good question. Of course, you always have to think about borrowing money. Fortunately, so do most people. When you're young, you may not always think so well. I remember a summer vacation when I was young, where I went on a spontaneous journey and spent way too much money. I had to pay them back, and I learned an important lesson. And so it is with us people that we can make mistakes, but what also characterises people is that we can also learn from our mistakes. And I really don't think we should have a society where we can't make mistakes, because we learn from them too. But again: For the vast majority of people it is actually a help that they can get a quick loan and they also pay the loan back again. And then we should remember that it is a huge privilege that we live in a society where it is possible to borrow money. It is one of the sources of our prosperity. Many people around the world live in countries where they do not have access to credit, and it is even worse than having to pay interest on loans that you take. So we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163252	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163255	Thank you. In fact, I agree with much of what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said up there from the platform, because you also have a responsibility yourself. But when we've come up with this proposal from the SF, it's because we think these loans are so toxic. There is so little competition to keep prices down, as the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency also says in the report, namely that two suppliers are 80%. of the market, which is also generally characterized by very few players. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: what does it say about a business model, that just over 30%. the revenue comes from the fact that one's customers cannot pay back in time and therefore pay penalties etc.? Does the rapporteur not say that something is wrong here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163358	No, not necessarily. If you borrow money, you earn money from the fact that the money is paid back with interest. Well, the worst business you could ever do was borrow money and nobody paid the money back. So those who borrow money have an interest in the money being held back, as is the case when you go down to your bank, that it costs extra if you do not comply with the agreement you have entered into. Well, that's pretty good. I believe that the same companies could perhaps make even more money if more people complied with their agreements, because then they would be able to reduce interest rates on their loans. So I think that is something the companies themselves are very aware of, because if companies lend money to people who cannot or will not pay them back, then it is not something that will benefit their business in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163500	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163501	Right there, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is actually wrong, because it is an integral part of a business model among some of these players that you set the penalty fees so high and opt out of what should I say relative common sense in relation to who you offer loans. One simply gets a business model together where it is only an economic good that there is a certain percentage that cannot pay back and where one chooses unsafe customers so that one can have the very high interest rates, ÅOP, because the risk is minimized when the penalty fees are so high. I don't think we're gonna agree here. Just one last question: what does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about the lack of competition in the quick loan market?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163558	I just want to say that when the risk decreases because you raise interest rates, it is a good idea to raise interest rates. It is the case that other and perfectly normal banks also act. Look at the cost of overdrafting your own account. It's expensive. There are penalties and so on. etc., the list is quite long. This is perhaps one of the things that I think could be very sensible, namely that it should be transparent and that I should be able to see what the annual interest rate is when I take a loan. I think that's good. Transparency in the market is good and can help to promote competition. But I am quite convinced that it will have the opposite effect and limit the possibility of granting loans, so the demand for loans does not disappear. People will go elsewhere and borrow the money. We have seen this in the past, and it is not a success either. I'd rather it's in the open. By the way, it's good that we have a conversation about borrowing money. I think we need that. However, regulation, as proposed here, does not seem to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163715	Sir. Pelle Dragsted is next.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163716	I mean, these loans are just gonna move somewhere else I don't actually think you can just say. There's been a market for this type of loan because they've been offered. Many of these people subsequently say that they regret having taken a loan. It's not loans you could've just gone down to banks. It's typical impulse loans. It is therefore a new type of lending. So if you got regulated and shut down for this, I don't think you could just conclude that those loans would move somewhere else. So what we have to do here is to weigh the consequences for citizens and society and to say that they are so great that we do not really want to have this type of business in Denmark. The rapporteur then says that it is a minority and that the majority must therefore be taken into account, but according to the comments on the proposal here it is 25%. of the loans created, which are exceeded by at least 30 days in relation to payment, and it is 18% that ended up being sent to debt collection. A very large proportion of turnover is simply not based on interest rates and there I am in complete agreement with the rapporteur that interest rates are, of course, applied but that people are speculating that people are going to get hurt. A very large proportion of total earnings are not interest rates, but penalty rates and charges for defaulting on a loan. So you have such a business model that works because people default on their loans. I don't think we should make room for that. There are plenty of places where we intervene in the market • Why not do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123163859	It may be that the figures, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is reading up now, are the right ones; I have some other figures, and they may be wrong, but there is a smaller proportion of those who take quick loans that default. But I just want to say, overall, that people make mistakes. I've made a lot of mistakes myself, bought things I didn't need, etc. etc. That's the way life is sometimes filled with temptations. And I really don't think it's our job to sit in here and assess what temptations should be out there and what kind of temptations should not be there. I mean, when a majority can figure out how to pay back the loans and some may even regret it afterwards... they probably won't do it again. That is how it is sometimes in life, and I think it should be, because we humans have a unique ability to learn from the mistakes we make. I think it is a good thing that we have a society that is designed in this way, and I do not think it is our job to remove any temptation out there that we ourselves do not think citizens should use if they want to. So again: The vast majority of quick loans have an ÅOP, which is comparable to the one you have in an ordinary bank if you override your account. There everyone thinks I don't know if Enhedslisten does that it is quite all right that there is of course a higher interest rate when you borrow more money and spend more money than you have. The higher interest rate reflects the risk to the bank and if the bank loses the money, then there are others who have to pay, and I do not think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164051	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164052	But if the vast majority of quick loans are such, it might also be sensible to clear the bad guys off, if I may say so. Well, now we've heard examples of loans with an AOP of over 3,000. Maybe it was so nice to say that we don't want these guys here. I agree, of course, with what the rapporteur says about this, that we should not remove all temptations. Fortunately, there are many types of temptations which are not at all unhealthy and which, on the contrary, are healthy for body and soul, but this type of temptation is, of course, a temptation which has some very, very negative consequences and which hits badly. Now I know that the Liberal Alliance is not so concerned about class differences and social differences, but the problem here is that it is people who are disadvantaged who end up in these problems. There's a clear class trend in this, and that's why I think it's easy to say that people can just choose for themselves. But it's people who are out to the limit in many cases and who take these loans because they see it as a last resort. I just think you have to have that in the picture too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164200	It's a little bit of a discussion about the chicken and the egg, so why is it that you're in a bad situation? For example, are you... in a bad situation, because you keep making bad choices and, for example, you keep making bad choices. borrow money you can't afford to borrow? Yeah, well, people make mistakes, and there are some who make more mistakes than others, and there are some who keep making mistakes, and then they end up in a really, really bad situation. We cannot really prevent that from happening in here. I simply do not think we can, and I do not think we should. I would just point out that whether my figures are the right ones or whether they are Mr. Pelle Dragsted's figures are the right ones, so it is the case that the vast majority are paying back the loans. And it must be assumed, however, that it is the case that voluntary agreements are not made with other parties, even if they do not have an advantage in doing so. And then maybe somebody's sorry they did it. That's the way it is. Then you shouldn't do it another time. But there are some and many and most who benefit from it, and I do not think we should stop them or stop them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164318	For the second time today, the SF is raising an excellent debate. There is no doubt that I am getting a little scratch in my heart as an entrepreneur and commercial trader when I want to help set ceilings above an interest rate that companies should be allowed to decide for themselves. However, one can learn more and learn so much in some areas that one finds out that perhaps there is a reason for regulation, even in relation to something that should be left out in private, where there should be no limits to such things. But the really big problem here isn't whether it's 15%, 10%. 20% or 20%. The really big problem is that it is harmful to society. At the end of the day, it would be socially damaging if we were to provide services if we were to create companies that actually undermine the society that we are all part of. And finally, in some cases, fortunately, this will be few, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, becoming completely subversive, in that there are people, existences that actually land in a situation they cannot dig themselves up from. I have massive experience in both making text constitutions to get people to buy one thing and the other, calling people around, coaching people in how to sell one thing and the other. And it is not just sales tricks or good offers, but psychology, when you set up offers like this, which may be among the worst tenth of what we are talking about today, i.e. those that the SF's rapporteur has also mentioned, where it is simply proposed that people should not be able to pay, that is, where it is the business model itself. There is no question of simply calling some randomly or accidentally catching them online. No, you make a funnel to find out who is available to make as foolish a choice as this; they are the ones who are the most pressured; they are the ones who have no other option. And then you collect data through different companies that may have enough purpose, both in terms of how they spend their money and how they treat their employees, but which are companies that simply make a living from providing these data, so that you can offer products that end up getting people into further poverty, that is, in terms of what it is like today. Then you might ask, Where else would they borrow? I don't know either, but maybe it's not the right place to borrow if it ends up with as high percentages as what we might allow them to do. So what's the solution? Well, it could be having an extended debate, as the SF suggests, whether it should be 15%, or whether it should be something higher. I do not want to make that clear today, but I think that 15%. Sounds interesting. When we land on higher interest rates in our own bank, where you might otherwise have a reasonable relationship, is it a coincidence that the banker might just call and say, "Hey, you've covered, do I have to take over a little?" I have at least personally experienced someone giving me that service, but that's not what happens in an offer like this. Such an offer has in many cases been made so that people do not have to pay. That's why the rest of us can go down and buy a couch and not pay until June or what's being advertised. Because there is no real problem in running your credit card through and setting it up in payment service so that it all runs; then you pay no interest and you pay no fees if you have otherwise been measured financially responsible to borrow for it. But who pays for it? It is precisely those who cannot, those who do not receive second payment, third payment, fourth payment, etc. I am not looking for something, and neither are we in the Alternative that we should legislate that companies should not make money on something that is not really socially beneficial. You can sell products that may not make the individual better or happier, but if it is directly subversive to existences, people who already have difficulties, then I think we should look at it. And that is why we have decided to support the SF's proposals here as well. Frankly, I think we should look at the framework we provide for companies that make these types of loans, because we cannot expect them to go in and make the right choices for our citizens and our societies. Actually, I don't expect that. Imagine if there are some who do not just have the insight that we need in this Parliament, who make a business model that is really, really attractive and creates many jobs that move a whole lot of money around and create turnover, but who may not have just assumed the responsibility also to think that the tenth for which it is not going so well should also be well. That is our responsibility as politicians. So the debate is good. It scratches the liberal heart when it comes to entering and putting such a ceiling here, but perhaps it is very healthy to make the liberal heart a little more social once in a while, because then I think we will also have a society where we can better be liberal on a great many points.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164741	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123164752	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution, and thus also for raising this debate on quick loans. The purpose of the resolution, as the previous rapporteurs have said, is to set a ceiling on the interest rate paid as a borrower when taking up a so-called quick loan. In the Conservative People's Party, we have sympathy with the intentions behind the proposal, namely to protect consumers from ending up in a situation where you cannot repay your debt. That's what must be at the heart of this. There is no one in here, I think, who can have an interest in that. So the intentions behind it are in itself sympathetic enough. However, we are not convinced that setting a ceiling on the annual cost in percentages is the right handle to turn on. I and we believe that, on the political side, we must be very careful to intervene in the formation of prices in a normal market, because everything else just weakens competition in the area of intervention, and this will probably also mean, as several people have said in the past, that the prices of suppliers will simply fall below the price ceiling. We believe that the consumer himself has a great responsibility to ensure that we do not get into a situation where, for example, we do not. We are also recognising that there may be a need here to protect the consumer, and that is why we backed up, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words about the period of this report, which was introduced just over a year ago. There is also much to suggest that the 48 hours of reflection have not worked as intended or perhaps just hit as precisely as the rapporteur of the Left said that other ways of offering loans have been found. That is why we are so open to looking at whether we could make a better solution for this period of reflection in which we can better protect the consumer without compromising competition and without interfering in price formation. I could understand from the Minister that the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency is finalising an investigation into this area and, in this context, perhaps will also make some recommendations on what can be done if we have to go in and regulate more in this area. That is why we do not want to adopt a model here and now until we have seen the conclusions of the Competition and Consumer Authority in that study. So, with those comments, I would like to thank the SF for raising the debate, but say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165032	It nevertheless raised a question from the SF, namely from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165037	Thanks for the speech anyway. Now we have heard the argument several times that if you have a ceiling, the interest rates, ÅOP, will lie just below that ceiling. But why should the competition be gone because you have a ceiling? Why shouldn't you just compete downstairs? If that is the case, then the market does not work. It can be said that it is not the case today that without a ceiling we have a functioning market. There we have the Competition and Consumer Authority's report that there are very few players that dominate the market • two of them sit at 80%. of it. So today, without a ceiling, we do not have a very good market. We could then try to achieve this by way of detours, but why should we not, if a proper market has been secured, ensure competition despite a ceiling? In other words, you are in a range between what to say: "General bank interest rates and quick loan rates."
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165141	All other things being equal, it is clear that if you go in and interfere in the formation of prices in a market, there will be fewer players who want to go in and offer their products on that market, and that will of course result in someone who is being offered and given the opportunity today to take a quick loan no longer having it because there is simply a difference when you offer these loans because you go in and assess risks etc. in relation to fixing a price of a loan. That's how all lending works. An interest rate, an annual rate of charge, or whatever you decide, is determined on the basis of the risk associated with the loan. Then it is clear that some will be excluded from this market if you set a ceiling and there will be fewer players who will offer services in this market. Then you can guess where those who are excluded from the market will go out and borrow this money, because there seems to be a demand for this type of loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165238	But you can also ask in another way. We see that some of those who take one quick loan after another to pay for debts that they have from past quick loans are getting into more and more debt. I heard an example of the Quick Loan Conference, the debate we were at, where a quick loan of 10,000 had grown to well over 100,000 because one loan replaces the other. To this more fundamental question: can we not get out there where we have so little repayment capacity and where there is so little reason why we should have a quick loan on what we should have it for, a TV, or whatever it is that it is actually okay that we should say no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165327	I certainly think so. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think, first of all, that as a consumer, as a borrower, you have a responsibility, but as I also said, I think there are, of course, some that need to be protected by our legislation, and I think that, just when we come out in these examples, where some have ended up in such a pressure situation that they have to take out new loans to pay for old people, etc., this is where we have to go and look at how we can protect the weak citizens who end up in that situation, so that they do not end up in that situation and can at least be helped out of that situation. I would very much like to take part in looking at how we can make some legislation so that we can secure the very weakest groups in this without hurting a lot. There has been a little discussion about the percentage that pays back, but the majority of those who take these loans pay them back. So, of course, we have to protect the weakest without compromising the majority who actually use these loans and pay them back.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165424	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165443	Thank you for the debate. After all, there was no consensus, nor from an edge that I had hoped for. If the two ministers want to keep quiet, I would like to say something to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Thank you. What I want to say to the Minister is that I think what we got out of today's debate was that there was a clear recognition that the 48-hour rule has not worked as we had hoped, and we have to change that. There is certainly no reason to have a rule that may have almost created a worse situation for some than before, because that was not the intention of us who helped to make the agreement. So I appreciate that work getting started. There is no support for a ceiling on ÅOP, I have found out today, and I've been trying to find out if the reason for that was the 15 percent. in the national bank's lending account, or whether it was more of a matter of principle. Sir. René Gade of the Alternative said that 15%. in his and the Alternative optics were just low enough. We are completely flexible if a majority could be obtained by going higher, because there is still something to give off from an ÅOP level of between 20 and 3 000 per cent, as we have seen, and that is absolutely insane. It also shows that we have a usurer's clause, a usurer's clause, which does not make much sense, and I would actually recommend that it be either made useful or repealed, because I think it is rather strange something to have legislation that is so little useful as we have seen with the usurer's provision. It is a little interesting, however, because it says precisely that usury is being punished for usury who exploits the considerable economic or personal difficulties of another person, who lacks insight, who is light-hearted or who has an existing relationship of dependence in a contractual relationship to obtain or to make provision for a service which is substantially disproportionate to the remuneration or for which no remuneration is to be paid. It could hardly be written more roundly, but the bottom line is that this usurer's rule is about exploiting, that someone can either financially say no, or that there are other social conditions that make it impossible to say no. At the conference that I and several of my colleagues were at, there was an example of a father of an adult woman who had lost her life very, very badly. Then you could say "and it's for you, too, sir. Minister, that if we had a healthy quick loan market, how can one have that it is quite legal to exploit a developing adult woman by lending herself up to the chimney for hundreds of thousands of dollars and that it is impossible to get in touch with the company that lent her the money because the loan has simply been passed on to a new provider? We must at least be able to find some common solution for this, because it is beyond all bounds that we can take advantage of the fact that someone cannot understand the consequences of it. Her father was so unhappy, and he said that now they just had to pay this money, even though they couldn't even get in touch with those who originally lent them out because you can pass on debts. This is an area that we will continue to pursue, and I will also ask some of the parties of the Folketing whether there is any interest in writing a joint report. Otherwise, I look forward to the Minister also making some proposals when the study is in place and that we may at least have some of the most glaring, absurd cases that we can find in the Quick Loan market. I have nothing more, so thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165906	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors and there are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123165926	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 25 January 2018. We need to explain this here, and that is the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123170007	Thank you. And it can be done very briefly. However, following the government's climate policy statement of December, we in the Danish Parliament, with the participation of all parties, have asked for a request where the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate could come here and explain the future climate policy initiatives. We look forward to that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123170028	Thank you. And now the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate is given the opportunity to do so. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123170034	Thank you for that, President. I welcome this opportunity to discuss Climate Policy statement 2017 with the Danish Parliament. The report provides an overview of Denmark's climate policy, and it should contribute to ensuring the public and transparency of climate policy. In addition, the report also contains the Government's comments on the Climate Council's recommendations. In 2018, the government will publish three climate and energy policy initiatives. Firstly, it is a proposal for a new energy agreement; secondly, a strategy for achieving the 2030 climate target for non-quota sectors, namely transport, agriculture and parts of energy; and thirdly, a climate plan to provide an overview of the government's priorities in the climate area. The three climate and energy policy initiatives will together describe the government's priorities in climate policy. We have chosen to use this year's report to elaborate on a number of climate-related themes, including: on the Arctic and CO2 The two most important messages in this year's climate policy statement are not new, but that does not make them less important. Firstly, it is once again emphasised that the link between the global Paris agreement, the EU climate regulation and Denmark's national climate policy is becoming increasingly important. This is good, because the climate challenge is global and requires that solutions be developed internationally. Secondly, this year's report also shows that Denmark is expected to overfulfill the climate commitment by 2020. By 2020, Denmark will reduce emissions from non-quota sectors by 20%. compared to 2005. So it is the emissions from e.g. agriculture, transport, waste and buildings to be reduced. Denmark expects to overfulfill the goal with approx. 9 million t CO2 Climate commitments are important, but Denmark's climate policy is more than that. Denmark makes a major contribution to the global green transition both internationally and nationally. Let us start by taking a look at Denmark's various international climate initiatives. Firstly, through the UN negotiations, we are helping to shape the framework for global climate action. Here we have, among other things. focus on implementing the so-called ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement. The ambition mechanism is central to increasing global climate action over time. The starting point for the ambition mechanism is this year's Talanoadialog. The dialogue must take stock of global climate action and give us an idea of how the world stands in relation to meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement and what we can do to increase global climate action. Secondly, we in Denmark are putting a great deal of effort into influencing international organisations in a more green direction. This applies both to the energy sector and, among other things, to the energy sector. cooperation with the International Energy Agency, this is the case with the International Renewable Energy Agency, and this is the case with climate finance, where we are working to ensure that development banks think climate considerations into new loans and investments. Thirdly, Denmark cooperates in the field of energy with a number of emerging economies. Through our cooperation, we are spreading knowledge about well-functioning policies that can promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. The effort makes a very effective contribution to reducing global emissions. In China, for example, we work. to make China's power plants more flexible. If we succeed, we can help China reduce their CO2 of Denmark's total CO2 likewise Denmark has helped China prepare a report on China's status of renewable energy. The report shows, among other things, that it is possible to reduce China's current CO2 from the current level of approx. 10 billion t CO 2 3 billion t CO 2 Fourthly, Denmark has put a great deal of effort into influencing EU climate regulation. Denmark was at the forefront of ensuring support for an ambitious reform of the EU's quota system. The reform corrects some of the basic errors in the system. Similarly, in 2017, the legislation for the EU 2030 climate targets was successfully negotiated. It is the new legislation that will make the European Union's contribution to the Paris Agreement a reality. Specifically, we have managed to reach agreement with the other EU countries and the European Parliament on both the burden sharing agreement for the non-quota sectors and on how we can integrate CO2 It has been difficult negotiations. I am therefore proud that we have achieved some good results for the European Union, Denmark and the climate. At a time when the President of the United States is pulling the United States out of the global effort against man-made temperature increases, we in the European Union are showing that we are delivering what we promise. That's a strong signal. Now we can close a chapter and look forward to new challenges in the European Union. There's enough work to do. This year we will work to increase the EU's renewable energy targets. It is a difficult battle, as few EU countries have signed up with the desire to raise the target, but I can guarantee that Denmark will be at the forefront. In addition, we must focus on the transport sector. Effective EU action will be crucial to achieving national targets in a cost-effective way. The government will therefore also focus in the future on developing EU climate policy in both an ambitious and cost-effective direction. Let us now look to Denmark's national climate action. Since the 2015 elections, we have implemented a number of smart and green decisions that set the framework for a continued green transition in Denmark. The government has set three ambitious targets for 2030: at least 50%. our energy needs must be covered by renewable energy sources, coal must be completely phased out by Denmark's electricity supply, and emissions from sectors outside the quota area must be reduced by 39%. in 2030 compared to 2005. The three objectives together will ensure that Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions fall significantly. The objective will also ensure that Denmark continues to advance and maintain a high pace in the green transition. The goals are therefore important milestones on the journey towards the government's long-term 2050 goals. By 2050, Denmark will be a low-carbon society independent of fossil fuels. At the same time, a cost-effective green transition requires a good framework for the changeover. The government has ensured this, among other things. through the conversion of the PSP. A restructuring of the PSO will promote electricity in all parts of society. In the long term, electricity can contribute to and be a major driver of CO2 The same applies to the agreement to reduce the electricity consumption tax. A reduction in the electricity tax would make it more attractive to use excess heat using heat pumps. It will also help to promote electricity and hence the green transition. When looking at the cost of support for renewable energy, there is a need for a change of system. The system must move away from handheld support schemes to a system in which different energy technologies compete in supply. The government and DF have taken an important step in this direction with the agreement to allocate more than 1 billion. kr. to support more wind and solar energy. In transport, Denmark takes the lead in the use of advanced biofuels. The government has decided that from 2020 there will be a minimum incorporation rate of 0.9 per cent. advanced biofuels in the land transport fuel. It is a very important and ambitious mixing requirement that is significantly above the EU's minimum requirements by 2020. Research and development are also an important part of the foundation for the green transition. That is why more than half a billion has been set aside. kr. for energy research in 2018. Overall, I will therefore be proud when I look at Denmark's broad and ambitious climate policy efforts. I look forward to a good debate today. We need to discuss the many opportunities and challenges ahead of Denmark in the area of climate policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123170939	We thank the Minister for the time being, who will come again, so that questions can be asked. But now it is the rapporteur of the questions, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123170954	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question. When we discuss climate and energy policy, it is, in short, about saving the world, about ensuring that the generations after us actually have a planet to be on where we have not made it impossible or very, very expensive by our actions. Climate and energy policy is also a question of industrial policy in the Danish context. We simply have a unique opportunity, while doing something good for the climate, to secure more Danish jobs. We export green energy solutions for over 40 billion. kr. a year. We have a lot of jobs, and many of them are located in these times when we are discussing Denmark's balance sheet in some of the areas of Denmark where we really need these jobs. It is also noted in parentheses that jobs are not only for people with long training, but also for skilled and unskilled workers, 3Fs and metalworkers. This is simply a win-win situation, which is why we must also say that we have to solve it. I hear the Minister and I hear the Prime Minister often say that these things go hand in hand. Unfortunately, I just miss the fact that sometimes they talk to you about what we can do in the area of climate and energy policy, also being translated into action. We can't wait. I know that the Prime Minister at the youth public meeting told the young hopeful people that it was their generation that had to solve the climate challenge. I think we have to tell the Prime Minister that in reality it is our generation that has to solve it. That's why we can't pass this on to those who are coming after us. The reason why we are in a bit of a hurry is, of course, that with the Paris agreement we have got a great many, if I may say so, customers in the green policy. We need to invest 90,000 billion. kr. in green solutions up to 2030. It offers incredibly great opportunities for Danish business, which is good at this, but it will of course also give new competitors. That is why we cannot afford to rest on the laurels and pretend that we are so far ahead that we should do nothing. This is a good starting point, but we have to stick to it, and that is why we have also been critical of the fact that, in a number of areas, the government has unfortunately dragged us in the wrong direction with the cuts in energy research funds at the EUDP, with the attempt to cancel wind farms, etc. etc. I also noted that a number of Danish companies just here in December said that we risked losing green competitive power, and I think that the government should take this very seriously. But this year we have the chance to do so, because the government has, and we must assume that will be the case, said that there will be an initiative for energy reconciliation and climate strategy. Let us seize that opportunity to get it back on track not only to make an ambitious but also a broad agreement. I note that the Minister says that we are pursuing an ambitious EU track. I think we should have discussed whether we cannot be even more ambitious when it comes to joining the club of countries that are pushing for renewable energy targets that are as high as possible, because it is good for Danish jobs and for companies, apart from the fact that it is good for the climate. I also agree with the Minister that something needs to be done on transport. I think we should push for that together. The more transport promises at EU level, the less effort we have to make in other and perhaps more expensive areas. So it would be obvious. Then I have to say that when the Minister says that there are three very ambitious targets, namely the 50 per cent RES target, the 2030 carbon phasing-out and the 39 per cent reduction in the non-quota sector, the last one is, after all, an EU target, which I agree with is a high target, but it is not one we have chosen for ourselves. After all, the carbon phase in 2030 was an objective that the previous government had and which the current government deleted and then introduced again because it is going to happen on its own. The point of that is that it may not be quite enough to run the policy. The 50 per cent renewable energy by 2030 is a good starting point, but I hope that it will be emphasised that it is a minimum. I hope, in fact, that the Climate Council and other actors' calls to raise that target seriously will be taken seriously. Then my call from the Social Democrats will be that when we make a broad energy reconciliation, we may also have to have other objectives. Perhaps we should not only raise the ambition of the VE target, but also have a number of things we are looking at. Are we on the right track in relation to energy efficiency improvements? Are we on the right track in relation to electrification? So not just making green power, but also getting it used and used? Do we have the right research efforts? It is not just a question of the size of the pool; it is also a question of whether it can be expected that it will come year after year. storage technologies and other things we need. We have a very good starting point, but the world will not continue to look to Denmark unless we continue to develop, and therefore our call is that we both raise our ambitions in relation to the present, but that we also spread it out. It would be good for the climate, but it would also be very good, important and necessary for Danish jobs and the strength positions we have spent 30-40 years building up. Finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Alternative, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants Denmark to be ambitious in the fight against global climate change, both because the Paris Agreement commits, and also because Denmark has the opportunity to create an export adventure and tens of thousands of green jobs. Parliament regrets that the government has created uncertainty about investment and reduced green ambitions, and calls on the government, with the upcoming energy reconciliation and climate plan, to re-establish broad cooperation on ambitious and guiding objectives that can function as stable framework conditions. The government should initiate more concrete initiatives if Denmark is to maintain its green strength position. The electrification must be developed significantly and supported by e.g.: to increase the amount of electricity used in the transport sector and for heating, including by replacing and replacing oil and natural gas burners. We need to rethink energy efficiency improvement efforts, speed up the expansion of renewable energy sources and respond to government cuts in green research funds. In addition, in its forthcoming climate plan, the government should address the climate contribution of agriculture. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171631	Yeah. The proposal submitted is then included in the negotiations. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171641	Thank you very much for your speech. I very much agree with much of what the rapporteur says, and I think that it is very good for some of the ambitions that we can put together after an election. I am also very pleased that we share a proposal for adoption in the red block. After all, it is a fact that the EU's quota market has collapsed, and Dansk Energi has recently launched a proposal that, together with England, France and the Netherlands, we could introduce a minimum tax on CO2 Perhaps we could also try to look out of the EU and see if we could make a tax on CO2 I would just like to hear the Social Democrats' opinion on that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171731	I was a little unsure whether it was a miswording to look into the European Union or whether it was out of the European Union. We also have the discussion on how quickly we can phase out fossil-powered cars. And it has to be said that whether that is what we are discussing or whether it is a CO2 tax You should not make an EU regulation where you can say that the most reactionary country has a right of veto, because we can only do something if the whole of the European Union is involved. On the other hand, it is also clear that, if we are to do something that is not the whole of the European Union, there must be a sufficient number of countries that are involved in this if we are to prevent it from distorting competition and, in reality, simply creating a biased distribution of the jobs or interventions that may be affected. So we would very much like to discuss it, but our yardstick as to whether it is sensible to go down that road is, of course, to a large extent who can get along with it and how broadly based it can be. It is clear that it is also important to maintain that the primary influence goes through the European Union internationally, and that is why we must, of course, also keep it against the efforts we are making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171846	I'm gonna work on being a little more articulate. I thought that we could look at those who have already aired the idea, but in this way also lift us beyond the European Union and look internationally to other countries. The problem is, of course, that with the level of international ambition, we will not achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I agree that we certainly need to focus on the EU track, but we also need to do more. Could the Social Democrats imagine trying to think of some other constellations of climate alliances, for example? About a CO2 I feel that sometimes the EU can hamper us a little in seeking a greater influence also internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123171933	First of all, I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the Paris Agreement will not be delivered with the current commitments entered into. That is also why, fortunately, there is an ambition mechanism, and we must then push to ensure that we continually turn up our ambitions so that we can achieve the objectives of the agreement that we have reached. The same answer I gave before is really true of this, about whether or not we want to look beyond the European Union. We have done this sometimes when alliances have had to be made. It has also often been with the European Union and some particularly vulnerable areas, it could be some island states or something. You can find other players in the UN system with which you can have common interests. It can also be imagined that if you find some producing countries, some industrialized countries, with which you can have a common interest in engaging in binding cooperation to ensure that pollution costs something, then we are certainly not opposed to it, but that only requires it to be a broad enough base for it to actually be meaningful to introduce it. And, unfortunately, we often find that this is due to the fact that the intentions may not quite reach as far as the promises in the first place were.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172044	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172047	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech by the rapporteur. Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jens Joel will both save the world and create jobs in Denmark at once. It can't be much more beautiful than that. Sir. Jens Joel also mentions an ambition to raise the VE target. I would like the rapporteur to be able to put it into practice a tiny bit. It is more so that we can get answers to what the Social Democrats' aim is for the expansion of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172125	What I am saying is that, in connection with the recent report by the Climate Council, it has been said that, at the pace that the government has so far set, we are unfortunately running the risk of pushing a hump ahead of us and that we are therefore being forced to push it at some point and that it can therefore become more expensive in society. That is why I say to the government: should we not look at whether the Climate Council is onto anything? I have also said, and you can read that in the daily press, that it must be higher than what the government has proposed, which seems obvious from what the Climate Council has said. But exactly where the number should be, i.e. whether it's 51 or 54 or 56 per cent, depends on what else is of bets. For one thing is to set a target for 2030 • it can be important and directional • but the last 2%. After all, it has one effect, and an equally important effect is whether one gets started with the electrification in 2020 or whether in 2018 we will actually get the electricity used in heat pumps, etc. etc. So my assessment of whether it is ambitious enough will depend on what else is in the package, and that is why we have not put a certain figure on it. We have just said that we want to help raise our ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172245	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172246	Thank you. I just had time to push myself into the second round here before the President cut off the speech flow. Thank you for a very fine answer. It was really informative. Then I just want to know if that doesn't make an impression on sir. Jens Joel, that we now actually have representatives of the Energy Commission who point out that these very concrete objectives for the expansion of the VE can in fact be dangerous and that in the past the Environmental Economic Council has been out to say that one-sided expansion of wind energy in Denmark can actually cost growth and jobs • the jobs which Mr. In fact, Jens Joel, besides saving the world, wants to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172327	I note that the thing about saving the world is like being said with a smile on your face. Well, it may be that you don't think that's a good argument, but that's actually what we're discussing. So, while I understand, of course, what is being said, we have to take it seriously that this climate discussion is also about future generations. Well, back to the jobs. I think we need to raise our ambition. However, when I am open to discussing the exact percentage and, moreover, say that I would like to discuss it in the context of what else we are doing for some of what we should agree on, the right way to go in relation to electrification, in relation to energy efficiency, in relation to research into storage technologies, etc. etc. from or up to 2030 in relation to the renewable target, but the overall picture. I really think this is a response to a debate in which we can hopefully reach each other broadly, provided that we raise the ambition of the present one. And then we're open to discussing how.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123172441	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which was transmitted last December. It has been read with great interest, but I must also say that it may not be my main substance, so I also thought it was a little bit boring, but it should not come to the attention of the Minister. The statement gives an excellent overview of what the status is on Danish climate policy and what the government has set for Denmark, and explains how Denmark is in terms of meeting the CO2 reductions Over many years it has been the goal of changing governments that Denmark should be a pioneer country in terms of reducing CO2 It has been a very expensive path to follow for Danish society, because the strategy has only succeeded by providing subsidies for the production of renewable energy with huge sums of money. For the big problem was that renewable energy is more expensive to produce than fossil fuel energy production. Therefore, the climate policy pursued has cost the Danes dearly in the form of higher energy bills to the Danes and Danish companies and resulting loss of competitiveness and jobs. However, it is also fair to say that the need for subsidies is decreasing and that renewable energy is moving rapidly towards being able to compete on equal terms with fossil energy. This is a development that we in the Danish People's Party welcome. In the Danish People's Party we have not agreed on the objective that Denmark should have a leading position. Nor have we agreed that a number of objectives should be set for reducing CO2 For our objective has always been that we in Denmark should first and foremost have a stable and inexpensive energy supply for the benefit of the business community and to give Danish families the lowest possible electricity and heating bills. As has been said, the need for renewable energy subsidies is decreasing. This can be seen from the recent supply of offshore wind turbines, where the bids submitted were significantly below the expected level. In the same way, it has been found that the aid for wind turbines and solar cells can be significantly reduced in the years to come. All other things being equal, this suggests that in a few years' time we will see that the production costs of producing electricity with renewable energy solutions will come close to the price of fossil fuel and will in the longer term be lower. It is also to be expected that fossil energy will be outperformed by renewable energy, completely on market terms. When we come to that situation, the many ambitions for CO2 will therefore be that the Danish People's Party's call is also that at this stage we put cold water in our blood and do not continue a rapid expansion with renewable energy, which requires support. Because if we wait just a few years, we will see that renewable energy will require much less support or perhaps no support at all. In short, our call is not to stop developing renewable energy, just to wait until it becomes cheaper than it is now. Another important call is that we also remember that we in Denmark are actually quite good at reducing our energy consumption. In particular, insulation of buildings is good for us, and it contributes both to lower energy bills and to energy consumption and thus CO2 Everything else equal benefits a CO2 For renewable energy installations is an expensive investment, while a reduced energy consumption simply provides a lower electricity and heating bill. I noted that the Minister spoke in his speech about China, and I actually find it very interesting that one can help the Chinese to invest and do some things that make their CO2 but I remember, from my visit to China, that many of the high-rises they have built are actually very badly isolated, and I think that is just as important. So perhaps it was just as much there to make an effort, so it all doesn't pop into the air, if I may say so. Finally, however, we in the Danish People's Party believe that our climate policy should also have a leg called energy saving. That has been far too low a priority, and perhaps that is why I am making that comment. Finally, I would like to make a proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, which reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it led energy and climate policy with a focus on replacing the production apparatus from fossil to renewable energy has given Danish citizens and companies huge additional energy costs due to the necessary subsidising of renewable energy. The Danish Parliament notes that in recent years there has been a trend towards lower support requirements for renewable energy and that this development appears to continue so that renewable energy will in the longer term be able to compete with fossil energy on market conditions. It is therefore to be expected that the government's climate objectives can be achieved to a large extent without the cost of support as hitherto. In energy and climate policy, the Danish Parliament urges the government to place greater emphasis on energy saving and efficiency rather than on the conversion of production, since energy, which is not used, has a better socio-economic effect than switching to renewable energy. • V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173042	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173052	Thank you. I just got a little shocked. Did I hear correctly, the rapporteur believes that DF wants to stop now and wait a time to move forward with ambitious climate action? In other words, it is contrary to the recommendations of the Climate Council, and it is contrary to the principles of the famous Stern report, which is now 15 years old, I believe, and in which it was realised that the more years we wait to stop the climate crisis, the more expensive it will be because more homes will be destroyed, more floods will occur and more droughts will occur. Is that really understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173135	Yeah, you could say that. The agenda that has been running for climate and energy policy has never been a part of, or, I think, never really agreed with, either. There is no doubt at all that renewable energy is a good thing. Well, I don't think any of us want to pollute more than we need to. But I must also say that we in the Danish People's Party have a very clear position that as long as it is so expensive for the Danes to remain in the so-called leadership position, which everyone in here apparently has an ambition that we are in, we think we should stop. There are others who can get in that lead position.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173214	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173223	I would actually like to congratulate the rapporteur on putting so much emphasis on energy saving. I fully agree that the cheapest energy is really the one we do not use, so it is a very good idea to work with some concrete objectives for it, including in the forthcoming energy agreement. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur thinks we have reached the situation we are today, where renewable energy is competitive. Does the rapporteur not think that it may have had an influence, that we have given political priority to investment in precisely that form of technology, so that it can really compete with the coal today, and that it shows precisely the value of having some political priorities and some political ambitions and visions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173303	Yes, there is no doubt that the subsidies we have given to, among others, for many years. The wind turbine industry has been involved, what can be said is that the development has gone as it has gone. But maybe it should have been some other thing that drove it. I am glad, I would say, that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agrees with me on energy saving. I grew up during the oil crisis myself, and I remember the car-free Sundays. I am quite sure that the rapporteur cannot, but I can do so, and it was precisely about saving energy, as we were told at the time. At least I've learned to turn off the lights when I walk out of a room... I'll hurry to say. Having said that, however, there is no doubt that the developments that have taken place in the wind turbine industry have come because, of course, we have prioritised it in Denmark. But this does not mean that we in the Danish People's Party think it has necessarily been the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173403	I also think there's something else when you discuss this with costs. In other words, all energy technologies will be supported for a period of time, and what we have achieved precisely by investing in renewable energy and on a technology that we thought the whole world would eventually be looking for is also a lot of jobs. So I think it should also be heard when we discuss these things. This should also be included in the equation, even when we look further ahead, because there is no doubt that in the future too there will be a great demand for these technologies which, as a green forerunner, we are helping to develop. I think it's important that we stick to it when we discuss this. None of us thinks that we should be a green forerunner for no reason at all. This is what we are doing to show the world that it is possible to resolve the climate crisis, to avoid a climate crisis that is running out of hand with similar refugee flows that are running out of hand, and then, because it is a really good business for our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173459	Yes, and these are all fine and fine words, but there is no doubt that when we choose politically to grant subsidies for a particular type of renewable energy, we also opt out of some others, and the rapporteur must agree with me on that. We are discussing, for example. often electric cars versus hydrogen cars. I don't have to be smart about who gets the most subsidies, but we've also had solar energy versus wind energy, and whether it makes sense or not, I don't have to be smart either. However, I would just like to say that at the same time, as we provide subsidies for some kind of technology, we may also opt out of some others, and I think that may sometimes be a little too bad, because if you want to develop and research and do something new, there should perhaps be a level playing field for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173547	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Marianne Bredal as rapporteur for the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173557	Thank you. The climate policy review for 2017 once again gives us the opportunity to see the coherence between the international climate agreements, the EU commitments and our national efforts. It is absolutely essential that Denmark should continue to take part in the international commitments to bring us closer to the green transition. Climate change is a global problem and we are getting nowhere with solo running. Together with the whole world, we must actively work to implement the points of the Paris Agreement. Fortunately, in Denmark we have great potential. We are well advanced on the green agenda, we are among the world's best for the development of green technologies and climate-friendly solutions, and we expect to over-fulfil our climate targets for 2020 for the non-quota sectors. We therefore have a unique opportunity to set the good example and inspire other countries to also give extra impetus to CO2 Exactly our green leadership enables us to make a significant contribution to global collaborations such as P4G or our cooperation with China on reducing China's CO2 The Danish level of ambition can of course also be felt nationally, where we work hard to achieve our goals for 2030 and 2050. By 2030, at least 50% shall apply. of our energy needs are covered by renewable energy sources, and by 2050, we must be a low-carbon society. These are tough targets that require a cost-effective transition in which market mechanisms and competition are allowed to play a greater role. That is why we in the government have launched a series of initiatives that respond to a green transition where consumers get the most green energy for money. Abolition of the PRS tax from the electricity bill, mixing requirements for fuel and the agreement with DF for 1 billion. kr. in support of the supply of wind and solar energy in 2018 and 2019 are just some of the initiatives. Looking forward, we see that we are facing some important negotiations on Denmark's future climate action. I look forward to further discussions on the regulation of CO2 With those words, I (on behalf of V, LA and KF) shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports that the government, on the basis of the Paris Agreement, presents a draft for an ambitious and cost-effective energy agreement that provides a basis for Denmark to cover at least 50% by 2030. of its energy needs with renewable energy. The long-term goal is a low-emission society in 2050, independent of fossil fuels. The Danish Parliament welcomes the fact that Denmark must continue to be a pioneer in renewable energy production and that the Danish example is more interesting to follow for other countries if the conversion is cost-effective and supports growth and employment. The Danish Parliament therefore notes with satisfaction that the development of renewable technologies contributes to a declining support need and provides opportunities for further decline in Danish greenhouse emissions, and that the Government expects Denmark to over-fulfil the climate target for the non-quota sectors by 2020. Parliament therefore calls on the government to work to organise energy policy, so that consideration of Danish jobs and competitiveness goes hand in hand with regard to the environment and climate. • V 33)
ParlaMint-DK_20180123173952	The proposal put forward will then be included in the further debate. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174003	I note that the rapporteur of the Left mentions the renewable target for 2030, but does not relate to the fact that there is an existing parliamentary resolution on climate impact reductions in 2020. The current parliamentary decision is, of course, that you should get so close to the 40 per cent. as possible. It might be interesting to know whether the government intends to live up to the decision taken by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174030	Climate action is a long and tough process and we do not meet the milestones in relation to the 2020 plan, but on a number of other points it seems that we will over-fulfil the targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174051	Now the rapporteur did not answer my question. The question was very simple. Is the government going to live up to the decision taken in the Folketing, while the Left sat alone in the government, among other things. with the support of the Conservatives, and the decision is that the reductions in climate impact by 2020 should be so close to 40%. as possible. Do you intend to live up to that decision? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174118	The government intends to do everything in its power to ensure that we live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174124	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174128	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur mentions this here with a low-carbon society in 2050. Can the rapporteur say a little more about what it is? What does that mean in relation to agriculture? What does that mean in relation to transport? Then I just want to know whether the Left supports the construction of eight new offshore parks by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174151	Our charging system supports the incentive to promote the sale of energy-efficient cars, and that is part of getting closer to the target of 2050. In addition, of course, we will continue to support the rapid development of technology, which fortunately constantly brings us even closer to more environmentally friendly cars. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is supported, among other things. with a subsidy scheme for the removal of low-level soils that may contribute to increased carbon binding in the land being taken. Then there are a number of points that we will be looking at and we look forward to hearing even more concrete actions here later this spring, when we will come up with a more long-term and ambitious agreement. In relation to the wind turbines, I would like to say that this is not just an area that I have been dealing with in my time here, so I will not reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174302	It's okay, too. But let's try to look forward to 2050. I'll just try to understand what the Left is thinking about this concept of low-carbon society, which in my world at least is a little fluffy. Is it a farm that no longer emits greenhouse gases? For example, I find it very worrying that agricultural emissions have been broadly the same for many years. Is it from transport also virtually zero? What does that word really mean? What is the aim of saying that by 2050 we should be a low-carbon society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174340	These are, of course, a number of points in which we are constantly ensuring that our technologies are improved so that the more heavy transport modes, which are used both in agriculture and in heavier transport, are more environmentally friendly. So these are a large number of points and, in relation to agriculture, there is also now a question of reductions already being made, which may not be included in this part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174406	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next speaker is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123174424	Thank you. Virtually every country in the world says that they support the Paris Agreement's goal that the global temperature increase should not be greater than 2 and preferably not more than 11⁄2 degrees. But when you look at what the countries are actually prepared to do, there is a very long way to go to achieve that goal. We simply need to increase the level of ambition everywhere, all the countries of the world. And that also applies to us. And this is where I miss a government that is prepared to raise the level of ambition. When I read the climate review that we are discussing today, I think that the government is more concerned about how to get rid of it as easily as possible in terms of contributing to the objectives of the European Union. And I think that's incredibly awkward. After all, the Paris Agreement is not about what has been signed up to the European Union, but about what is needed to prevent catastrophic climate change. And there is also not enough work done by the Danish Government, and hence by the Danish Government. We need to speed up. We need a target line by 2030, which is called 70% CO2 renewable energy as targets. At the same time, in order to achieve the climate target, we must bring both transport and agriculture into the green transition. And this is where I actually think it's now both when you talk transport and when you talk agriculture... it's going the wrong way. The government has raised the tax on electric cars and lowered it on petrol cars. The achievement of the 2020 objective of transport, that is to say that we need 10% of renewable energy, is achieved primarily by means of biofuels, which are very problematic for many reasons. In addition to CO2 we should instead follow the Climate Council's recommendation for increased electrification of road transport with a tax reduction, especially on the smaller electric cars, and a strong investment in better public transport infrastructure. Collective transport will only be effective if it is a real alternative to the car. And it really surprises us too, when you read the climate review, why the government and the Minister ignore the Climate Council's many, many sensible recommendations, which, in addition to electrification of road passenger transport, include increased reduction commitments in the non-quota sectors, national reductions rather than quota purchases, and a higher renewable target. What I really want is for us as a country to raise our eyes a little and see the role we have played for years as a green forerunner who has inspired other countries to get started, who have shown the way, who have proved that it is possible to have huge amounts of renewable energy in our energy sector; shown, it is possible to fit it in, that it is possible to make it work. And that, in my view, is the role in the world that we must be proud of, we must be careful and we must continue to take care of. I do not buy the premise that it is a big and expensive and bad business when you look at how many jobs the green conversion will also create, because we know that the technologies that are being developed, that the solutions that we can help to show are some that will undoubtedly be demanded throughout the rest of the world. But I also think there should be room to praise the government. It is very positive that the government notes in the statement that when one burns biomass, it is not CO2 As it is very correctly described, a part of the carbon from dead plants, if you did the right thing in the field, crumbled them, composted them, there are various methods that are still being tested, will simply be bound in the ground. I would also like to congratulate the government on something else, because when I read the statement, I think I can rediscover some of the arguments that we, among others, have. in Enhedslisten has argued numerous times as a criticism of the massive use of biomass and in particular the massive emissions of carbon from agriculture. It amazes me that the government's recognition that there is a great potential to bind carbon in land and forests and thereby reduce emissions of CO2 Instead, the government focuses primarily on the fact that it is difficult to make up how much it affects CO2 I think we should recognise what a huge role agriculture can actually play in solving the climate crisis. Agriculture is a profession which, together with forestry, is the only one able to draw CO2 It is impressive. And this is a potential that we need to exploit, which we need to learn more about, especially because, in practice, since 2005, the climate impact of agriculture has remained unchanged. Here, of course, we can choose, right now, when we have to live up to whether we need the flexible mechanisms, whether we should try to buy our reductions abroad, or whether we should get to grips with this task and do it ourselves. Here, too, I believe that if we can be frontrunners to show what a huge positive role agriculture can actually play instead of being climate sinners, they can be climate fighters. I really believe that there is a lot to be done there. I would like to urge that, in this context and with the knowledge that we are beginning to get about how to do, we get a start on very concrete measures that promote better and more climate-friendly farming methods that can significantly reduce the Danish emissions of climate gases. I would like to pay tribute to the Danish People's Party for focusing again in their speech on energy savings, and I would also like to highlight what the Socialists said about bringing in more objectives when we are going to discuss both the climate plan and the energy agreement in the future. I think that there is room for both an energy saving target, a target for more renewable energy and a target for climate reduction. We are very much looking forward to the negotiations on an energy reconciliation and a climate plan in which we will, of course, work towards raising and tightening targets and achieving them through national instruments and measures so that we can help to develop the various sectors that can contribute to these solutions. And it will also ensure that Denmark does not jeopardise the green leadership we have had for years and that the burden on future generations will be reduced. The longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes. That is why we very much hope that the government has a sincere interest in securing broad and ambitious agreements during the spring. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175219	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175224	Thank you to the rapporteur, and thank you very much for some fine comments, among others. on agriculture, too, and other things. I thought that was very constructive. Perhaps something that I do not think is quite so constructive is the whole picture that the rapporteur is trying to draw from the fact that Denmark is no longer a pioneer country, etc. That is when the rapporteur then appeals to the government to have higher ambitions and to set some, I think, very high-flying and far-reaching targets for the 2030 effort, I really do not see any recognition from the rapporteur that what really moves something is precisely the international effort which the rapporteur actually praises the government for. In other words, raising EU countries to a level of ambition similar to that of Denmark, raising the level of ambition of the Americans, the Chinese to the Danish is what really moves something. For Denmark in this context takes mouse steps, even if we raise our ambitions very significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175336	In fact, I have some doubts about the question. I believe that international action is important, and I fully acknowledge that. It is important that we try to push the objectives, both in the European Union and in the rest of the world. After all, we have suggested in the past that an alliance should be sought where it is said that the world is bigger than the European Union. If there are other countries that are actually prepared to raise their climate ambitions in accordance with the Paris Agreement, let us go with them and make a club of countries that can take the lead and also make some agreements on technology transfer and other benefits so that it becomes an attractive club to join. I would just like to say that I recognise that in the field of energy we are still at the forefront of the field. But I think we are making a huge mistake if we do not recognise that we have to keep working to lie there. Then there is the paradox that, although the government has launched a plan for 2030, which can be quite ambitious in many respects, it is still not enough to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. And it's not something I'm just making up to be far-vaunted and play smart from Parliament's platform. That is something we can count on, and that is something we have to deal with and take very seriously and do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175453	In this context, I believe that the rapporteur should recognise that we are indeed a pioneer country and that it is our neighbouring countries, it is the European Union, it is the United States, it is China that really has to move something in this context. That is why I also hope that the rapporteur will be impressed when representatives from the Energy Commission point out that some of the increased, concrete objectives for the development of renewable energy in Denmark can in fact be dangerous in relation to the real effort we have to make, and the model that we must now set for the outside world, that is to say, the great players of the Americans, the Chinese and our neighbouring countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175534	I mean, I don't think we can say that we are a pioneering country, for example. transport. Nor do I think it can be said that we are a pioneering country in the field of agriculture. It is particularly in the non-quota sectors that we also need to say that something must be done. We haven't broken those curves. It is a task that all countries have and where we can play a role. However, this requires us to be ambitious and not just to buy reduction commitments through flexible mechanisms, but to do it nationally, with ambitious national plans for precisely that. As to whether objectives are dangerous, I do not think that objectives are dangerous. I do not think we should be too stuck in them; I think we should recognise technology development and that energy savings, for example. also can be a quite clever way to reach a high VE target. So I do not think we should think that we can see through the full energy mix or whatever it takes. However, I believe that objectives really help to give our policy direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175631	The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175636	Thanks for the speech. And then I will start by expressing my concern that I am being praised by the Enhedslisten, because then I always get the feeling that I have said something wrong. Anyway, joke aside. The rapporteur calls agriculture a climate sinner, and perhaps I should just like to understand that, because if I have understood correctly, the emissions coming from agriculture are the same today as it was back in 2005, i.e. there is no increase in emissions. So the rapporteur is very happy to tell us what is meant by a climate sinner. So a little more concrete and other question. The rapporteur wants to see a small tax on small electric cars. Just as I was standing on the platform myself, I would like to ask whether you do not choose technology, in the sense that you choose the electric car in contrast to the hydrogen car or whatever it may be. That is one of the concerns I have at least in relation to the technologies that may be out there. If you grant subsidies to a place, then you also opt out of something else, and I would like the rapporteur's comments on that. The last thing I want to ask is about competitiveness. We are told so often that if we had not invested in wind turbines, we would never have had all the many jobs that the wind turbine industry has had. But could we not also draw up the second scenario and then say: if we had not had the high electricity prices, the competitiveness of many companies would have been better and they would have created the jobs themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175812	I hope that the rapporteur will be happy in the future when there is cause for praise. I would very much like to congratulate the rapporteur on this, and I have praised him several times over the last few days. When you talk about what contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, you point primarily to energy, transport and agriculture. And then you can discuss all sorts of other things, and you can subdivide them into all sorts of things, but that is what I mean, that is, agriculture is a contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. And that's a fact, you have to say. It is, in fact, a pity when agriculture has a huge potential to be the opposite, and that is really what I want to talk about. I would like to be open to the fact that we are starting to work on and look at the methods that some farmers in agriculture are already beginning to try to find out how they can do this. In relation to taxes and electric cars, I would like to say that I also think that we should look at hydrogen cars. I do not think we can have any ambition to promote some of the technologies we can see that are clean. I do not think we should say: by 2030 there must be precisely so and so much wind energy, so and so much solar energy. There may be things that can change. But of course it isn't because we're on bare ground. We can see that there are some clean technologies, some sensible technologies that are getting air under their wings, and then look seriously and specifically at how we can promote them in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123175941	I am now hurrying to speak again, because then I hope that the rapporteur will remember my last question on competitiveness. Then I would just like to make a small comment: I think it should be in relation to having objectives. I am a little pleased that the rapporteur says that objectives may not have to be so rigid, but at the same time it also annoys me that every time we make targets with one or two percent and we do not reach it, it is a huge problem; but if we reach the target, we do not have the ambition. In other words, this is often the case when we talk about objectives. If the percentage is not high enough, we are not ambitious enough. And we're never gonna make it, I was about to say. At any rate, I do not think I have achieved any objective in relation to percentages yet, but it may be that the rapporteur has. But just like to ask for an answer to the question of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180033	Thank you. I just always get a little pressured when the President gets up in the chair and I haven't finished. I think there are a lot of other things that affect competitiveness other than energy taxes or the cost of electricity. I also think that when you hear the companies out there, that is what they are pointing to. When Denmark is an attractive country for a company to be in, it is because there are trained workers; because there are day institutions that are affordable; because you are not going out to buy expensive health insurance, but that there is a public health service. There are a lot of assumptions that make us an interesting country to be in as a company. There, I believe, the issue of the price of electricity plays an incredibly small role, like corporate taxes. So I don't even recognise that it plays a role in itself. On the other hand, we have created a huge sector of green technology that we should be pleased with. I am in favour of objectives, and I will only be happy if we reach them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180128	Thank you to the rapporteur, who does not need to feel pressured by the President as long as speaking time is respected. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180139	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister for his statement, both in writing and now in speech here from the platform. And thank you for a solid overview and an update of the current status of Denmark's climate action. But today is the day of the flow in the Nordic countries, and we can actually celebrate it here in Denmark, knowing that we have the world's best energy system. This is not just something I am saying from the platform, no, it is actually something that is right and is assessed by the World Energy Forum under the auspices of the United Nations. We actually have here in Denmark the world's best energy system... that's what they've assessed... and we've achieved that ranking for 2 years in a row. And some of us have also got it marked today, by the fact that we have got a green hiptimist in gift and a nice little map, where it says that Denmark has the world's best energy system. How do you end up at the top of the ranking of energy systems in the world? As in all other competitive situations, the way to success is a combination of a strong focus on several factors: first and foremost, a stable energy supply and high security of supply, a high share of green CO2 ensuring all access to a reliable, sustainable and modern energy supply at an affordable price is one of the UN's 17 global targets for sustainable development. So we cannot rely unilaterally on renewable energy expansion on our path towards the world's best energy system in the future. And given the insanely high energy taxes at home, we should not be content with less than continuing to be the country in the world that has the best energy system. It also attracts positive international attention in terms of export opportunities, growth and jobs in Denmark, for example. in the form of the data centres currently in use; Shooting up around the country. Being the world's best energy system also gives some kind of clear international voice that can draw the rest of the world's climate action up to Denmark's current very high level. For the global climate action is a team sport, where Denmark's individual performance counts very little in the overall accounting. Our neighbouring countries, the European Union, the United States, China and, incidentally, all other responsible nations must be on the wagon and up to the same level as Denmark before it seriously bats anything and really moves something. For me and the Liberal Alliance, an isolated specific national objective for renewable energy development in Denmark is therefore neither interesting nor relevant. It is just a stepping stone on the way to the future Danish energy system, which must also be the world's best. The long-term objective must and must be, as is also formulated in the government base, an ongoing cost-effective transition towards a low-carbon society by 2050, thereby also meeting Denmark's international obligations. However, I would like to extend the objective to the fact that, along the way, we must also top the ranking of the world's best energy systems. To continue to have the world's best energy system, new technology needs to be developed in all parts of the value chain, and it is of course important to strengthen research in the energy sector, but is our current research strategy also the best? In fact, I am not quite sure about that, and that is why, before targeting more research crowns for energy research, we must ensure that we have the right overall strategy. I believe, for example, that research at present. is fragmented too much and so-called linear innovation is far too much. The future Energy Agreement should primarily set the framework for the economy and the financing of Denmark's climate action towards 2030, as well as set out clear cost-effective here and now initiatives, and otherwise be an overall long-term strategy with room for ongoing adaptation and implementation of initiatives based on concrete developments in, among others. technology. In this way, as in the case of the existing energy agreement, we do not end up in a locked and inappropriately planned economic paradigm with a one-sided focus on what I would call a national romantic expansion of renewable energy, which has at best not been detrimental to Denmark's economy and competitiveness and, in the worst case, has given the whole of Denmark tunnel vision without looking at other important factors in climate action such as security of supply and the market. Finally, in this context, I would like to mention that for the Liberal Alliance, a significant reduction in electricity charges is almost a matter of course in the forthcoming energy agreement, so that the obvious use of surplus heat becomes profitable and therefore interesting to invest in; so that the conversion to more electricity in our heat supply, both in the collective and the individual, can be driven by an energy market without biased and excessively high taxes, but also so electrification of other areas, for example. the transport sector, can benefit from lower taxes on electricity. The general line for all future climate initiatives of the state must and must be cost-efficiency and market-driven development, both in terms of energy efficiency and electrification, but certainly also in terms of the expansion of green CO2 In those words, I and the Liberal Alliance therefore take note of the Government's climate statement and support the proposal for adoption put forward by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180900	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180906	There is, in fact, a great deal I could ask questions about or comment on, but I will try to familiarize myself with the universe of the Liberal Alliance. And if you think about it that we should benefit Danish business, then I would ask if it is a point when the Danish business community wants and demands that the future energy settlement is politically broad, that it does not consist only of blue parties plus the Danish People's Party, which I do not really think is entirely blue, they are so slightly mixed, across the political centre. Does the Liberal Alliance share the interest of Danish industry in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123180950	Liberal Alliance shares Danish business interests in having a good climate and energy policy in Denmark. I made sure to take a big sip of the water here before, in that I understand that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has many questions. The fact that an agreement is broad does not necessarily mean that it is good. What defines a good political agreement must be the content of what it says, the text, the elements, the initiatives. If they're good, it's a good deal. And then we can almost logically conclude that it will also be a broad agreement, because then there will have to be many parties interested in it. But just the pure definition that an agreement should be good because it is broad, I do not share that view with Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181049	I can only ask two questions, so I do not think the rapporteur needs water, but a broad political agreement in the energy sector, where we know that investment often takes place after perhaps 6, 8, 10 years, based on a legitimate expectation of the climate of investment, is absolutely crucial for investors. I actually believe that even the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance must acknowledge this, and that is why it is an independent point to ensure some political stability behind such an agreement and to ensure a broad political agreement. But I'm actually a little curious about what the Liberal Alliance is saying on the platform. Does the Liberal Alliance and the government also say that they prefer a narrow political agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181137	After all, I am the climate and energy rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, who is indeed a government party, but you have to ask the government what is the government's view of how broad the energy agreement should be. I would say that I do not necessarily see a need for us to have an energy agreement as broad as we have today, which ranges from one side of the House to the next. I really regard the Liberal Alliance as being somewhere in between, so that we can easily enter into the union of parties which now have to conclude an energy agreement. What is crucial for the Liberal Alliance is that there are good initiatives, good elements in the energy agreement, not that it is necessarily broad, but also, of course, to ensure a certain stability for investment for Danish industry in that context, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181229	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181231	I think I heard the rapporteur mention sustainability target number seven on sustainable energy, which specifically mentions investments in solar, wind, thermal energy and energy savings, so this is precisely a way to achieve this goal. But I really want to hear something. Towards 2030, transport is the major task of reducing the climate load. Does the Liberal Alliance also think in the long term that reducing the tax on fossil-powered cars and putting it on electric cars is such a future perspective towards 2030 to solve that task?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181316	After all, the policy of the Liberal Alliance in relation to the registration tax is to abolish the registration tax on all cars. After all, it is so good to have a very clearly defined policy in this area. If I did not mention the specific technologies mentioned here in the UN list and in the UN's 17 sustainability targets, it is because, when we talk about energy, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is precisely technology neutrality and market-driven development, so that we can get cost-effectiveness into it and you do not have a bunch of politicians, whether at UN level or in the Danish Parliament, who are pinpointing which technologies should be focused on and not focused on. For this is to such an extent an expression of a planned economy and a distortion of the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181406	I would ask you to remember to press for a follow-up brief remark. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181412	I'm sorry. If it turns out that CO2 I am simply genuinely curious about climate considerations, all the time it is about today's enough and perhaps the greatest challenge of mankind ever, as we have quite a short time to promise, i.e. whether such considerations would make the party reflect on that policy. And does the Liberal Alliance then believe that we should or is it energy so wide that it might as well be fossil energy if it is cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181505	When I talk technology neutrality, I am talking technology neutrality on CO2 Compared to the registration fee, I can't stand here on the Speaker's Chair and change policy for the Liberal Alliance when we talk registration fee. The Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the registration tax on all cars, and in relation to CO2, it can be said that it is technology that must operate it and, as I said in my speech, a market where there is no distortion of tax levels. Together with technology, this must drive progress towards a low-carbon society by 2050, which also applies to transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181551	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181555	Thank you. At the beginning of his speech, the rapporteur spoke about the climate crisis as being an international problem, and that a national target for, for example, climate change is an international problem. VE conversion is therefore less relevant. There I just wanted to hear: is it because the rapporteur has the impression that CO2 or are there other mechanisms in international cooperation that the rapporteur can point out that will cause us to move quickly enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181634	Yes, the quota system is quite a supporter of the effort, and then the follow-up question from the questioner will certainly be whether I think it is effective at this stage. I cannot assess such a one hundred percent whether it is effective now or whether it will be forward-looking. However, there is at least a system for dealing with CO2 has also fought recently, is important in this regard. Because it is in the international framework that we can work together on the efforts that need to be made to move to green, CO2 It is essential that this is considered in a global perspective and that we do not become navel-looking and only focus on what the objective is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181737	Yes, the rapporteur is somewhat right in relation to my follow-up question. Because, of course, I do not think that CO2 is actually at least seven to ten times too low, and I have also seen an analysis that shows that even with the austerity that has been negotiated in the European Union and even if you were the most ambitious, the price would still not be high enough in 2040 or so. So can the rapporteur recognise that the quota system is in fact the opposite at the moment, and therefore for many years to come? This seems to be an excuse for not making national efforts in all the countries of the world and thus actually stopping the switch to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181828	I've seen those assessments well, and whether they're right or not, or maybe they're not exactly wrong, but then less real, I don't have to make myself a judge over. But what I am saying is that we have an international system, and I think we should stick to that because it has already been negotiated and it is essential that we do not step outside it. It can then be said, as I also mentioned in my speech, that it is important in this context that Denmark pushes globally to raise the objectives of our neighbouring countries and other major countries such as Denmark. China and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181902	The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181907	Thank you. I just have one simple curiosity that I have to pursue. For the rapporteur said to the question of whether it should be a broad conciliation, that it should not necessarily be as broad as last time and that he saw himself a little in between. Then it was just that I shoved, because the last energy settlement that was made was very wide, but if there was one party that wasn't in it, then it was the Liberal Alliance. It is actually a little funny that such a broad settlement was made last time, but those who seem to be in the middle were not included in the agreement. So I just want to try to hear: is it because Danish politics has evolved and the other parties have moved forward, or is it because the Liberal Alliance has moved forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123181951	I think that Danish politics is what Danish politics is. After all, when the Liberal Alliance was not involved in the 2012 energy settlement, it is related to the fact that the energy settlement of 2012 was extremely the expression of a plan economic agreement that was largely built on a unilateral state aid expansion of renewable energy, which is both in 2012 and today completely wrong. That's why we didn't enter into an energy agreement in 2012, but I definitely expect that to happen in 2018. What I said in relation to the width was • and then I would like to refer back again to the planned economic agreement of 2012 • that parties such as for example. The Enhedslisten is in favour of a planned economy, including in the climate and energy context, and it is not because I have something against Enhedslisten in general, but because they are, I certainly do not believe that it is the task of the Liberal Alliance to demand an equally wide-ranging energy reconciliation, i.e. containing, for example: Enhedslisten, as the 2012 Energy Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123182057	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123182113	Thank you to the Minister for the annual statement. There are many exciting things, especially a number of good overviews, which are nice to have gathered somewhere. Nevertheless, I do not really think that the statement and, to some extent, the debate here so far does justice to the extent of the climate crisis. I see this debate here today as an opportunity for us to raise our eyes together, that we will, of course, have a political but just as much an ethical debate on the challenges we face and what on earth we should do about them. It is an opportunity to raise us a little above everyday life and to see things in a larger and perhaps especially in a longer perspective, both for the present and also for future generations. The debate we have today is probably the most important debate throughout the year. Journalists should perhaps fall over each other here outside and have comments afterwards on how we are going to solve the greatest crisis of our time, for the climate crisis should provide the framework for all the work we do in here. As I see it, it requires unprecedented cooperation to resolve the climate crisis, globally, regionally, nationally and also between parties. The question is, how do we create this cooperation here in Christiansborg, how do we ensure that we always make policies that take into account future generations and their opportunities, and what it means at all levels of society, that the ecological space of the planet must be a framework for our political decisions. How do we basically make the notion of sustainable growth on a limited planet the subject of public debate? I think that today's debate should be about such things. Of course, we can and must talk back and forth about what an appropriate 2030 target for renewable energy needs to be, how we are most intelligently lowering the electricity tax, how many new offshore wind farms we have to send in tenders and all the other things we are discussing here on a daily basis. But what if we started somewhere else? What if we started with a common recognition that right now we are reducing the conditions for life on earth to such a degree that life, as we know it, may not exist some years in the future? That's how we're pushing everything out of balance. In fact, our current model of society is under threat, climate change and over-exploitation of the scarce resources of the planet are hitting us like a boomerang. It is we ourselves who will suffer from overloading the life systems of which we are part. We are pushing everything out of balance, and if we do not act quickly, the systems will turn against us. If we started there and that's how the minister's chalked up the track I think I'd say, okay, this isn't a joke, and how do we start to solve the climate crisis right now? Not on the basis of where we are today and how we make it cheapest or with some calm in the stomach, because we were once a pioneer country, but on the premise that we are so busy that virtually nothing is too much and that we should have 100 per cent. renewable energy tomorrow, if possible. It isn't, but when is it possible? As soon as possible! How many percent of our gross domestic product should we give in climate aid to those today affected by the climate crisis? How do we get agriculture globally transformed from a production that destroys nature, the environment and the climate completely? I know that we do not all agree with the Alternative's analysis of what is needed in order to make our fair contribution to resolving the climate crisis, but as we see it, the degree of transformation we need globally in recent times maybe, the greatest socio-economic, cultural and behavioural upheaval ever. If we do not resolve the climate crisis, we will remove the basis of life as we know it. There will be a great deal of death and destruction that we could have avoided if we and those before us had acted differently. What we are doing now and over the next few years means everything, and therefore the climate crisis must and must challenge our habitual thinking. That is why climate policy for us is a matter of ethics. In 2016 alone, more than 23 million people were driven on the run by climate change and extreme weather. That is over three times as many as the same year fled from war and conflict. As the consequences of climate change hit even harder, that figure will probably just increase and increase. That is why climate policy is ethics. We shouldn't do anything we don't think anyone else should do in our situation. We must use the idea of the other as a guide for ourselves; we should not look for new oil unless we can justify that everyone else has the right to look for new oil. We must take the lead in the green transition because we have the opportunity to do so, and so it is our duty to do so. On the other hand, we do not have the right to gamble with the survival of humanity, which is why climate policy is basically an ethical question of what is right and what is wrong. I am always pleased with this type of debate because we have the opportunity to take a look at daily legislation, but I just wish that we would then tackle together the issues that I think should dominate such a debate as today. How do we shut down the exploration and extraction of fossil production in the North Sea, how do we also convert transport, agriculture, our consumption, our production, how do we go from deriving about 20 tonnes of CO2 Danes to deriving 2 tonnes of CO2 Danes, which according to the UN is the maximum per Dane? world citizen in 2050 if we are to limit the warming to just 2 degrees, as stated in the Paris Agreement? In the alternative, for example, we propose that we phase out the fossil industry within a period of 10 to 20 years, that we remove the registration tax on electric cars and prohibit the sale of new fossil cars from 2025, and that we set aside 10 billion over a four-year period. kr. for climate assistance or rather climate compensation for those affected by the rich world's development over the past few hundred years. In his statement, the Minister starts with this point, which I actually fully agree with: to comply with the Paris Agreement requires ambitious global action. That is what I fully agree with, and I look forward to hearing how the government will contribute to this global, ambitious effort in the forthcoming energy negotiations and the presentation of the government's climate change proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123182805	No one has been in favour of short remarks, so thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123182815	I welcome our climate rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken, who is in Davos to the World Economic Forum, where, fortunately, climate is also being discussed. And it's on her behalf that I give the speech. First of all, I should like to thank the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Social Democrats for their cooperation on the text of adoption that we have together produced. Because this is a text which we in the Radical Left are very pleased with and which creates hope for what another government might want to come along with and get through in this area. It is a very good text which I can only recommend to everyone to read. Climate change is real and already in full swing. In less than 10 weeks' time, Cape Town in South Africa will be running out of water for the population. This summer we saw how the United States, Bangladesh and India were hit by violent floods and hurricanes. Large parts of Houston were under water, and in Oregon the forest fires were so severe that the sky was black with ash and the state declared in martial law. At the same time, we see an American president pulling the United States out of the climate agreement. That is all the more reason why Denmark shows leadership in the climate struggle. We can show the rest of the world how to make a green transformation of its society while preserving the quality of life and creating jobs. We know that the power of the example moves others. That is why we in the Radical Left believe that Denmark must return to the green leading position, including when it comes to green energy, and we believe that we should invest massively in making the North Sea a big export adventure for Denmark • this time not by pulling up oil, but by building wind turbines that can supply the whole of Europe. We want the government to draw up an ambitious North Sea plan and lay the tracks for the next many years of investment in wind at sea. In addition, we want Denmark to move forward when it comes to electrified both our transport sector and our heating sector. With the business agreement, we took a major step forward, and the Radical Left is proud that we managed to reduce the tax on electricity to heat. This is what can ensure that the power of wind turbines can be picked up by heat pumps and turned into green heat. Secondly, we want electricity to be sold again in Denmark, just as we look forward to agriculture playing a constructive role in the green transition, for example. with set-aside and afforestation. Denmark has very great opportunities right now. We have a superb business community that is among the best in the world and wants to invest. We can create many new jobs, just as we can be completely independent of oil from the Middle East and gas from Russia. We therefore regret the fact that the government is missing one option after another, most recently with a reduction in the registration fee, where a major shift in the tax on cars could have been made. We are the first generation to feel climate change and the last one to do something about it. That is an obligation, and in the Radical Left we are ready to work together to make something happen. With those words, I can say that we support the proposal for adoption that we ourselves have been involved in putting forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123183155	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123183207	Thank you. I was very warm to hear the radical rapporteur and briefly wondered whether I should just refer to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. But I'd still like to make a few points. I could, of course, use all my speaking time to make it clear that the climate challenge is imminent and that there is no need to do a little more, but to do much more. However, it is obvious to all who follow in the area of climate change. I could also use my time to make it clear that this government has slowed down the pace of the green transition, but it is also obvious to everyone who follows. Instead, I would like to spend my time on what is needed. We need to speed up the expansion of renewable energy sources. SF has proposed four additional offshore wind farms during the 2020s. Maybe it's better with three extra-large parks, because then we can keep up the pace of expansion. And then we're gonna have the expansion of the landwind and the sun skyrocketed up at a pace not down. We also need to get the switch from natural gas to green gas produced as renewable energy. It may be biogas, it may be gas from hydrogen produced from electricity from sun and wind, but there are also other techniques. I'm kind of open to not locking myself onto one technique. Then it is also necessary to speed up the transition to electricity in the transport sector. After all, a clear offer is to change the registration fee, but this time in favour of electric cars. Then we have to look at electric buses, electric ferries and trucks on green gas. After all, it is quite realistic that by 2030 we produce as much electricity on the basis of renewable energy as we actually use. It is also realistic that the district heating sector runs mainly on renewable energy. Coal I think gradually there is agreement to be gone by 2030, and perhaps already by 2025. There are two works that are somewhat of the challenge, but I do believe in ambition. We can also do more when it comes to oil, diesel, petrol and natural gas. Overall, it is realistic to reach around 60%. renewable energy by 2030, saw the government's target by 50%. is foot dragging. We must also continue to save energy, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just mentioned in his speech. Our appliances and machines must be more energy efficient. There is also a financial gain in that. And we need a new and more efficient energy saving scheme, with which the government is also working together with the conciliation parties. And I would really like us to pay particular attention to those places in industry and housing where fossil fuels are used. We need to save them, because they are the ones we need to get rid of. Then I come to the heart of the knuckle, because it is absolutely necessary to look at agriculture, which is expected to account for almost a quarter of Denmark's climate pollution by 2020. From 1990 to 2010, emissions actually fell from agriculture, but since then they have remained virtually unchanged. And if nothing happens, it will rise slightly towards 2030. That doesn't go in the long run. Smart people in agriculture know that too. Before or not much later something significant has to happen, and the longer we wait, the more violent it will be for Danish agriculture. Therefore, a climate plan for agriculture needs to be drawn up quickly, covering everything from cultivation methods to manure treatment to energy consumption in agricultural machinery. This requires research, and it requires the development of new methods. Putting with and circumventing agricultural requirements is a hopeless way of helping agriculture. In general, much more research is needed in the field of energy. This includes improvements to existing energy technologies, and we are pleased to see great progress here, as well as the development of new technologies, for example. for storing energy, and here green gas is a pretty good offer. Therefore, we also need to increase the funding for energy research significantly. And I don't think it's a really good investment for Denmark not only in terms of saving energy, but also in terms of the plenty of new jobs we get again by taking the lead in the green transition. Because there are lots of green jobs, and there can be more. The talk that business cannot afford the green transition is rather strange. For the right question is whether business and Denmark can afford to see that other countries overtake us and develop new smart technologies. Yes, there is a consideration of costs, but it is also a fact that the world is evolving and that whoever does not renew loses. Then there's the question of whether we can afford it. I'm tempted to say we need advice. Solving the climate crisis is a bottom-up task for global society and, as one of the richest countries in the world, we have a strong moral obligation to take the lead rather than to stop. But fortunately, we can afford it. The cost of support for renewable energy, formerly called the PSO tax, will fall by several billions up to 2025. If we insist that they should be used for green conversion, then we can afford it all. Yes, everything suggests that there will be money left over because both wind energy and solar energy are constantly falling in price. We may even be lucky enough that in a few years' time there will be no need for support at all. However, this presupposes keeping pace with the construction of wind turbines and solar cells in the way technology develops. We can do something ourselves. Indeed, we can work hard to ensure that the EU's CO2 There simply has to be much fewer quotas in circulation. Then the price of coal, oil and natural gas will rise significantly, and we will have much more renewable energy and more energy savings automatically and without aid, because then prices will really reflect the social costs and political objectives of, among others. The Paris Agreement. So it might be interesting to hear whether the Minister will struggle with beaks and claws for a higher quota price and at the same time tell the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxation that they must stop pretending that the quota system works when they organise tax policy. So it is actually crucial in this question whether you have the political will: do you want the green transition, or is that something you say on festive occasions? I would like to thank the Minister for the statement and the opportunity for this debate and those of my colleagues who are now back in the Chamber. We support the proposal for adoption that we have helped to put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123183921	Thank you. There are still listeners in the Chamber. There is no wish for short remarks, so I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123183940	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for a good and thorough statement which gave a very good look at the status right now and the very, very exciting year that awaits us in relation to this agenda. Thanks for some good talking around. Liberating honesty from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. This is certainly not necessarily the most colourful issue, but it is actually true, as the rapporteur for the Alternative said in return, that it should be something that caused journalists to fall over each other eagerly to cover it. But that is not quite the case. Then it is a bit strange that we are having this debate today on the day of Stream, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance also mentioned. It is a very good reminder, which we have also received from Dansk Energi today, that we have much to be proud of in Denmark. I'm sure you all know this cliché about living in the moment. I'm sure you've used it yourself. Don't worry about tomorrow, but live in the moment. There can be a lot of truth in that too. It goes when you come home from work and just slams your legs up and lives in the moment with your kids or what you do, but in politics it's hard to use the expression: that you have to live in the moment. Because when we make politics, we have to live in the past, the present and the future, because we are neither Denmark's first generation nor Denmark's last generation. Some have preceded us, and we must pass Denmark on to new generations. It must be a Denmark and a world in at least as good a condition as the one we took over. We owe that to those who preceded it, and we owe it to future generations. This is the contract we Conservatives call the generation contract, which is so important to us. Today's debate is an attempt to take care of the future and not stare blindly at the present and be in good time, which is why today's debate is so important. Because it is difficult to imagine a much more important agenda than the climate agenda. One might ask oneself a little harshly and squarely what it helps to lift people out of poverty and create peace in the world or something quite different, if we destroy our planet at the same time, because then it may not be all that matters somewhere. Unfortunately, it is not always the long light that is on with us politicians. It is tempting to focus your energy on the problems that we are facing in the middle of, and that we are feeling right now and here, and not looking out in the future. Unfortunately, in the United States, we see a President who is putting global climate action at risk for the sake of some very short-term domestic policy issues. This is a good example of thinking more about the present than about the future. When it comes to the green transition, we need to have the long light on the light that goes beyond the next parliamentary elections, the next economic recovery or economic crisis and beyond the next generation. That is why I am both pleased and proud of the fine initiatives taken by the government in the past year. It was important for us Conservatives to have written into the government base that at least 50%. of our energy needs must be covered by renewable energy sources by 2030 and that by 2050 we must be a low-carbon society. That is why Denmark has also pushed internationally. One thing is that we have fine national objectives, but pressure must be put on in the world community. It's no use if the rest of the world doesn't follow suit. That is why we in the European Union have been pushing for more ambitious levels there, but unfortunately it has been a hard fight. However, I am pleased and proud that we have a Danish minister who has helped to fight the battle and, in the same way, to fight for a reformation of the EU's quota system. At home we also have several things we can be proud of. We created energy policy Danish history by making a big deal where solar cells and wind turbines competed. We supplied maximum power for DKK 1 billion in 2018 and 2019. We have changed the PRS tax by means of a broad agreement in the Danish Parliament.Thank you to all the parties that took responsibility in this regard.We are generally in the process of strengthening the whole electrification of our society. In March last year, we made a broad agreement to extend the national test centres for wind turbines. This supports the ambition that Denmark should be a leader in wind energy production. There are many jobs linked to it and well to mark jobs that are spread across the country, also some of the places where it might otherwise be difficult times so it is worthwhile to rejoice over. But we must not rest on our laurels. Much remains to be done. In the last 17 years, the heat record has been beaten for 16 years. The temperature is rising and rising, and in the coming decades we will experience migration problems on a scale that we are not used to at all. This concept of climate refugees is something we are going to have to get acquainted with in a completely new way. It is not enough that we are only talking about combating climate change; we also need to start talking more about climate adjustments because it is a huge challenge that awaits us. Denmark cannot solve everything alone, but we must take our share as a responsible country. In Denmark, it is an ambition that we should move away from subsidies. Energy technology must be able to compete to deliver the most optimal green power solution to consumers. As in all other areas, we believe that competition creates the best product at the best price, but also with the understanding that free market forces cannot do it alone when it comes to energy policy. Sustainable energy must be delivered in a sustainable market. If the state is too industrious to hold hands during energy production with unnatural subsidies, the market will never be sustainable. It is fantastic inspiring right now to look around Europe, where you start to see the first big parks decided without support. This shows that the future is bright when it can be done in such a cost-effective way. The government continues to scratch. I look forward to the coming year, and I look forward in particular to the new energy agreement we are going to make. There we really must show, as politicians, that we are all willing to compromise, that we are willing to stretch towards each other, even if that means that we are not all going to achieve all our ambitions. There's a lot of numbers going on in this discussion. We cannot all have our wishes fully fulfilled, but I really do think that we should make every effort to reach a broad agreement. I really hope that all parties will. We owe it for the sake of the Danes, we owe it for the sake of future generations. We owe it for the sake of a large industry which is dependent on stable framework conditions and which is dependent on what we adopt here in the Danish Parliament, i.e. also remaining in force for 5 and 7 years into the future, and that there is stability in this area. So we can stand here and spend a lot of time discussing whether it should be named 55 or 57 or 60%, but what really matters is that we stand together and that we get an energy agreement with concrete projects that reach into the future and that contribute to progress that brings us closer. So it was just such a last little hope that we could make a broad deal. This is certainly important for us in the Conservative People's Party. And I think that's what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123184749	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123184753	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for emphasising that it must be a broad political agreement and that it also creates stability for business, but also generally for the future climate action, so thank you for that. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is following Norwegian policy. After all, Norway has a bourgeois government which, at the moment or just recently, has launched a relatively ambitious policy in the area of climate change, which is both about the quotad sector but also about the non-quota sector. In part of the objectives presented and thus with a Finance Minister from the Fremskritspartiet and a Prime Minister from the Conservatives, it is stressed that there will be fossil-free public transport by 2025 in Norway. Does the rapporteur think that when the government presents its proposal for energy conciliation, it is not only sticking to the quotad sector but is inspired by the Norwegians and is also related to the non-quotad sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123184858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123184859	I look a lot at what's happening in Norway. This is insanely exciting. I'm so proud of my conservative sister organization up there, Høyre, who is in charge of this Erna Solberg thing. I also know that another good conservative, Connie Hedegaard, has helped to advise on what is going on up there. The non-quota sectors are, of course, our pain child at home. It is, of course, there that we have the greatest challenges, and that is one of the hardest challenges. Then it was to me, it was also something that was addressed in an energy project from the government. I think it is so difficult what the hell we should do about the transport sector. It is clear that we remove all taxes, so it may help to promote, but vice versa, since we did not have any taxes in Denmark, it wasn't because the sales so boomed out there and just went completely crazy. It is also about creating the right infrastructure. I am looking at something in connection with charging stations, whether you could get it into an energy agreement. They are paying a high level of connection today when they are connected to the network, and in particular the new electric cars, which are more powerful, have a high connection price. It's just such a wild project I've just been throwing myself over, but I think it could be really nice if you could get something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185013	Another thing that I find very interesting in the Norwegian proposal is that the tax system should be changed so that it actually facilitates the green transition and that the polluter should pay. The money you then get is not just absorbed by the Treasury, but is being used to reduce other taxes and charges for affected groups in order to facilitate the conversion, that is, what we had in the past, namely the green deduction, in order to make the social balance right. Could it be interesting to look at such a green tax change, which should also affect among other things. agriculture and fisheries, as it does in Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185048	I must admit that I do not know so much about exactly what those who have done in Norway. However, I would like to help look at how we can make a more appropriate arrangement for our tax structure at home, because right now we are punishing some of what we want more, namely green electricity, and it is quite crazy that we are doing it that way. I had another thing I wanted to say, but it's just gone. Sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185110	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185112	After all, the rapporteur mentions that the non-quota sectors are a little bit our children of pain at home, and that these are the ones we need to look at a great deal in the next time, in other words how we are going to get some good plans for how we can get reductions there too. And there it seems that agriculture ends up with virtually no effort being made, simply because the maximum use is made of these compensatory solutions, which lie in what is called LULUCF, which are mechanisms that deal with how to use the land. Is it particularly clever, and is it reasonable, moreover, to have an entire sector which can therefore avoid having to deliver on the climate? When I ask whether this is a good idea, it is because, at some point, some reductions have to be made when you move forward in the process, and then you are behind schedule. If you went in and took the effort seriously, you could get ahead, just as you are in some other areas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185213	Well, I kind of think it's a good question. It's a government decision that it has to be possible to use these mechanisms. It is a decision of the European side that it must be possible to do so. If we chose not to do so in Denmark, we placed Danish agriculture in a more difficult situation than the situation for those with whom they compete in other countries. On the other hand, I can easily follow the point that somewhere the problem is put off. But we are in a special position in Denmark, because there is so much of our country that is being used for agricultural production • it is a very important part of our economy. This does not mean that we should not ensure a change, but it just has a lot to say for Danish society that we will do it in a way that does not put Danish farmers in a very difficult economic situation in relation to delivering these changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185301	Yes, but agriculture also has a relatively high overall share of our climate impact, which is why it is perhaps reasonable to look at real reductions, including in agriculture, just as we should in the energy sector and in construction and transport, etc. Would it not be more reasonable to get started, take up the challenge and create good solutions from the start?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185329	It is true that agriculture is a major emitter, and that is because it is a major exporter of food in Denmark and it represents a very large part of our exports. I would also like agriculture to contribute. A catalogue of measures was drawn up a few years ago, when there were some proposals. I have to admit that I do not remember on a stand-by basis whether there is much of what is there that has not been realized and that one could obviously get to grips with that, I have to admit that I simply cannot remember on a stand-by basis. But, of course, we must constantly look at: where can more effort be made, including on the part of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185403	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next in the line is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123185411	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for a good debate which shows to me that, despite the differences that exist, there is still more that unites us than separates us. I think that is a good starting point. It is also an expression of the broad consensus that has been on energy and climate policy over a long period of time. It is a good foundation, and it is also what has led to the fact that when you talk about climate policy, even when I as Danish climate minister is out in the big world, there is much to be proud of in Denmark. Then things are actually going really, really well. That, of course, is also crucial, and I very much agree with the Conservative rapporteur that we must not rest on the laurels. There is a need, as Mette Abildgaard so rightly explained, for strong action to continue, and it is absolutely crucial that we remain at the forefront both nationally and internationally. It is important that we deliver on the targets that we take on, where Denmark is absolutely not on the slow side when we take on goals in the European Union. We are doing this quite topically in relation to the non-quota area, where the expectation is that we will have a target to reduce by 39%. in 2030 and thus will be at the very heavy end. It is essential that we deliver on the targets, and we have done so on the 2020 targets. After all, today's climate review shows that we are achieving a 37 per cent reduction here. in 2020, where we are committed to a 20% reduction. In other words, we are more than overfulfilling our goals. But we must not rest on our laurels either. It is, of course, important that we continue to make an effort here too and ensure as much reductions as we possibly can. Then it is also crucial that we push internationally for a high level of ambition. We will do so when we meet in the circle of EU countries, whether it is the share of renewable energy, energy efficiency or other targets in climate and energy. Then it is also crucial for the government that we not only rest on the laurels in order to show what we can, but international pressure to show the good Danish example. That's where we stand really, really strong. We do, among other things. through the very extensive cooperation that we have with a number of countries. It is through cooperation agreements, regulatory cooperation and other agreements that we are helping to influence more than 2 billion energy users in a number of countries around the world that we are also standing quite well. I would like to thank you for your contributions. I was particularly concerned about Jens Joel's contribution to the potential in this area. Jens Joel said that DKK 90,000 billion had to be invested in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It has to be said that we also have a lot to offer. That is why it is extremely important that we continue and that, in relation to the efforts of the government, most recently with export strategy and other measures, we also help to present what we can in the wider world, thereby also influencing a large number of countries to carry out a green transition and move away from fossil fuels and to renewable energy. Pia Adelsteen also mentioned the benefits of energy saving and also pointed to the fact that the price of renewable energy is falling dramatically. That is precisely what makes it possible to continue the expansion in a cost-effective way, so that consumers and business do not have to pay excessive bills. We have also seen this in Denmark with Kriegers Flak, the offshore wind farm. Here the price was 37.2 cents in the offer that was. Not so many years ago there was an invitation to tender up at Anholt and Djursland. Here the price was over 1 kroner. per kilowatt-hour. In total, there is a difference of billions of dollars between the two projects. And what is absolutely crucial is that the price of renewable energy comes down and becomes competitive. Yes, it is actually the case today that you cannot build a new coal power plant that will be able to deliver cheaper energy than you can from a offshore wind farm, and then we have actually got really, really far. And the expectation, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen also mentioned, is that within a few years we will find ourselves in a situation where there is no support whatsoever and then it will be much cheaper than fossil energy. And I can just say that this is also a matter of great respect. That is also what Jens Joel mentioned, namely that it can also help to ensure continued high employment in this area. Today, 56,000 Danes are engaged in producing energy equipment, which is quite significant. There is an export of more than 70 billion. kr., and the government has an expectation that it can increase quite massively, and a goal that by 2030 it has at least doubled and on the other side of 140 billion. kr. Andreas Steenberg addressed the question of heat pumps and welcomed the agreement made by the government parties, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left to reduce the tax on electric heating, which will help to promote heat pumps. And Andreas Steenberg also pointed to the great opportunities that lie out in the North Sea, in relation to a Silicon Valley for offshore winds, and these are absolutely ideas and ideas that the government supports. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned the need for political action, and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is certainly right about that. Political action is needed internationally, but there is also national action. And I would like to invite all the parties in the Danish Parliament to the discussions on a future energy agreement, which will very much help to form a basis, because our energy consumption is absolutely crucial in terms of how we will reduce CO2 emissions of the total energy demand by 2030 to be covered by renewable energy. And that is an objective that we are working very seriously towards and for which I also hope to be able to find broad support in the Folketing. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190100	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190105	I would like to thank the Minister, both for his statement and also for the invitation to a broad political debate on the forthcoming energy conciliation, which the Minister concluded with. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is a genuine desire on the part of the government to possibly land a broad political agreement, in the light of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who felt that a good agreement was not necessarily a broad agreement. So I would like to ask the Minister to clarify whether it is the position of the Conservatives and the Left that will dominate or whether it is the position of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190145	So, I am absolutely of the opinion that we should have as broad an agreement as possible. But I also share Carsten Bach's view that it is, of course, also crucial that it is a good and proper agreement that is being implemented. After all, every minister dreams that there are broad agreements. We have had a tradition of this in the field of energy; we have actually had a tradition of this since natural gas was adopted here in the Folketing. For this is quite a lot of money, which is why it is also important to know the foundation, also in addition to a forthcoming parliamentary election. And that's why the government is working to get as broad an agreement as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190221	I think that is a good ambition. SF has been involved in broad political settlements in this area for many years. And the final energy reconciliation back in 2012 was concluded with among others. SF, but also with the Left. And that settlement now calls the Liberal Alliance a plan-economic approach. I would like to ask the Minister whether he shares the Liberal Alliance's view of the existing energy agreement. Is it a planned economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190251	Thank you for the question. There are different ways of seeing things. There are planned economic elements in the current agreement, including: the fact that it has been agreed how much wind and sun and biogas etc. That's gotta be in the deal. After all, the government's view is that we should have competition in the future. It can be said that there is at least a break in relation to the energy agreement we implemented in 2012. Of course, I am in favour of the 2012 agreement and I am also doing everything I can to fulfil the elements of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190321	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190323	Thank you. I would also like to start by signing for the Minister's invitation to the negotiations on the forthcoming Energy Agreement. I look forward to that very much. I'd like to grab a few things. The Minister mentions that in international cooperation there is a difference for 2 billion people, I think it was. For example, is it... With this agreement on the phasing-out of coal from the Bonn meeting here in November? Because, as I understand that agreement, it is not about phasing out coal at all, but about building coal power stations only if a coal storage plant is in place in future, i.e. the CCS. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190408	No, it's not really understood. It is the case that when I mention the number of two billion, it is about the agreements we have with China, India, Indonesia, Turkey and a large number of other major emerging economies and other economies in the world. We directly and indirectly affect 2 billion consumers' opportunities to do something about climate change and to reduce energy consumption. I am also very pleased with the coal agreement. After all, it is an agreement that means that we will phase out coal from energy production by 2030 at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190442	As I understood it, Denmark will of course not build new coal-fired power stations - we have agreed for many years - but in many other countries, according to this agreement, you can build coal-fired power plants if only they have a CCS system connected to them. The second question I would like to ask is: the Minister often and today also highlights the 39% that we have to achieve in the non-quota sector, for example. in agriculture, but is it not quite understood that such a large amount of compensatory measures can actually be used in the LULUCF system that agriculture can do virtually without special efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190524	Thank you for the question. In the case of Denmark, there will be no use of CCS. In the case of Denmark, the phasing out of coal means real phasing-out. There are two other works left: Nordjyllandsværket and Fynsværket and in part also the Esbjergværket.The government has gone into dialogue with the works concerned in order to ensure that a phase-out takes place, and I believe that this will happen in a significant way earlier than 2030. It is true what is being said in relation to the 39%. After all, Denmark has set itself a very, very large target, and we also have a relatively large food sector in Denmark, which the government is concerned about, and that is why we have had some opportunities, among other things. purchase of allowances, removal of CO 2;
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190620	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190623	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for both the answer and the debate on it here. I would like to start by asking about the overall level of ambition, because I have heard the Minister confirm and repeat many times that we must keep the lead position we have. So I would just like to ask whether, on this basis, the Minister agrees that we may just have to step up one step when the Climate Council and some Danish companies respectively have urged the government to turn up the ambition slightly and have said that they are actually afraid that we are about to put our green leadership at risk. So can we in the discussion we are having on the energy settlement and I very much agree with the hope that it will spread out perhaps just give the ambitions a little upwards, compared to what the government has so far played out with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190714	After all, the government has played out very, very ambitiously. We already did so in the government basis of the VLAK government with an ambition that at least 50 per cent. the total energy demand by 2030 shall be based on renewable energy. If technology development and the prices of renewable energy can mean that we get even higher, well then we are ready for it. But we have set ourselves an objective which we think is quite ambitious. And I hope that the Social Democrats will also be involved in a future energy agreement and help ensure that we achieve that objective at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190744	Is there a follow-up question? The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190747	Thank you, and I regret the confusion with the President. We are, of course, in favour of this, but I also think that it is necessary to take it seriously when there are actors who have shouted in their arms and said that we are at risk of putting the lead at risk, and we are also in danger of leaving too much work to be done in the coming years. But we must then move on to the negotiating room. I have two questions at the end. The first is: if the Minister could see himself and the government that some more measuring points are being set up than only a VE target, i.e. for example. an objective of electrification, displacement of fossil sources, an objective of energy savings that complements the development of renewable energy? The second question is: there are a number of things that are urgent right now and here, and we simply need a quick clarification in relation to electricity for heating, we need a quick clarification if the Minister otherwise agrees that, if there is to be one, the future offshore wind farm will have to be put out to tender in 2019, then does the Minister agree that there are some areas where clarification is urgently needed in order to move forward with the next steps and so that we do not just talk about what is happening in 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190911	That was very, very many questions at once, as Mr. Jens Joel here, come with me. I guarantee that the government is working for us to have as ambitious an energy agreement as possible. I also agree that there are tasks that are more urgent than other ones, and how we get more electricity into several parts of our society, are two of them, and therefore I also hope that there will be a common political will when the government comes in a relatively short space of time with its energy initiative, that we will also have an agreement and get the whole green transition going and all the various many tasks that Mr. Jens Joel points out in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123190950	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 25 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180123191005	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
