ParlaMint-DK_20181127130030	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130131	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130148	Thank you very much. The last 3 years Danish economy has been growing, over 2%. We have to go back 10 years to see something like this. Since the elections, employment has set a record, which has created more than 150,000 more private employees' jobs, and employment in Denmark has never been higher. In 98 of the country's 98 municipalities, a larger proportion of citizens have entered work. It's going well in Denmark. We basically have a healthy economy because we have dealt with important balances in our society in good time. First of all, the balance between those who work and those who have to be supported by those who work is crucial. This is an important and perhaps in reality the most crucial balance from both economic and human considerations. I am fully convinced that the best thing to do for a person, the best thing to do for children, is to provide him or her with something to stand up to, raise your back, new self-esteem, something in which children can reflect themselves. So socially we have got more into the working community and we need more into the working community in order to preserve a country without great divisions and with confidence between people. It is also important in social terms that more people pull the load, otherwise the money will not be linked. That is actually what I pointed out in one of my New Year's speeches, namely the one in 2010-11, which we followed up with the withdrawal agreement. It was then not one of my ministers, but instead of Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who signed the bill after the election that took place in 2011, thanks for that, because it was an important reform. It was opposed, but it backed up, and it has joined with other reforms, tax reform, unemployment benefit reform, cash assistance reform, to increase labour supply in Denmark by 100,000 this year alone by almost 40,000, next year by 25,000. Few believed it, but at the turn of the millennium only a third of the 60-64-year-olds were at work, today it is half of a group that someone had convicted out. So perhaps we should not be so afraid of reforms. It's kind of like homework, it's hard and heavy to do, but it pays off in the long run. Several people are going to join the working community, and that is why it must be worthwhile to work, and so is working today. It does, among other things. because, since the elections, the government has implemented tax reductions of some 20 billion. kr. We have done so on the positive basis that there was something to build up, namely the tax cuts that we agreed with the Socialist-led government. I am pleased that the then Socialist-led government was sensitive to the view that it should be worthwhile to work, that efforts should be rewarded, and this also applies to the political pressure that we put on the then government, it paid off. The top tax reductions decided in 2012 will now be phased in in the coming years towards 2022, and a total of 374,000 Danes will be free of paying top tax. And here, after New Year, we are raising the top tax line again, as we agreed with the Socialist-led government. Many people feel it in their payroll, and there is reason to thank for it. The tax relief we gave, including to people with good incomes, has helped to draw the prosperity and prosperity that will enable us to now negotiate finance laws and improve our welfare societies on a solid basis this year. It is negotiated from the positive point of view that we have a basic healthy economy because we have dealt with important balances in our society in good time. I want the money to fit in, that's how the world works for me. I have so little doubt as to how the world is connected with social democracy, how easy promises are in the wind. Where's the money coming from? Should it be more expensive to be a Dane? Should there be less investment in infrastructure? I have to say that I lack a transparent plan of priorities, with funding, not just such words and measuring points far out in the future, but a plan for the way there year by year. For we should, of course, preferably here, where we stand on the verge of entering a new year, which will be an election year, avoid ending up in the situation that we ended up in in 2011, when the Socialists promised a whole lot before the elections, which, after the elections, turned out not to be connected at all. Our welfare society must be based on a healthy economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130637	Thank you. Then we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time; then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. The first question is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130655	It is now more than a year since the government had been forced to negotiate the so-called paradigm shift in Danish immigration policy. I have on other occasions, and would like to repeat this here today, described a paradigm change with the word that I myself feel most natural, namely that it is common sense. When people are on the run and need our protection, we protect. I would like to do so in the neighbourhood, so that people do not have to flee across the Mediterranean at all. But we protect those who need protection. Then when you get to the point where your homeland is again a place where you can return, you should return, rebuild your own country and, of course, at the same time give room for us in Denmark to help others. For a number of years refugees have become immigrants. This presents us with both obvious challenges for integration, but it actually presents us with some capacity challenges in terms of helping new refugees. It was, of course, the government that I myself was part of that introduced the temporary principle of Danish asylum policy, and that is why a paradigm shift is entirely in line with the policy we have put forward in the past. That is also what the UN refugee system is based on, namely that you get protection when you need it, and then you return again. It is clear that it also raises some questions in relation to people who have learned the Danish language, who go to work, pay taxes, support themselves, are members of an unemployment fund, maybe football coach is on Wednesday afternoon down at the club, because there has to be a balance, so the whole thing in foreign policy represents exactly the common sense. But to make a long story short, let me sum up: the social democracy is for a paradigm change in the refugee area where refugees go home when they no longer need our protection. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister today: how are the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130901	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127130903	It's going well. It'll be so little to the short side if I just leave it at that. But things are going well, because after the change of government in 2015, we have changed Danish foreign policy. After all, we have adjusted the many concessions made by the previous government under the very strong impression of the participation of the Radical Left in intergovernmental cooperation so that we can now welcome the fact that we have the lowest number of asylum seekers for Denmark we have had for nine years. We have also chosen to meet those who then come in a completely different new and much more consistent way, assuming that they earn their own money. That is why we have made tripartite agreements, and I welcome the fact that we have doubled the proportion of asylum seekers and family members who are self-supporting after three years. So we've sort of got things under control. That is why it is now natural to go further and do what Mrs Mette Frederiksen also asks, namely to try to get the original concept of refugees back on track, because there has been a failure over generations where we have seen that nine out of ten who came to Denmark as asylum seekers ended up becoming immigrants. We have put forward some proposals on how we can deal with this under the Financial Law negotiations, and there is, as I am told, a good and constructive atmosphere about it. This is not easy, because if it were just easy, some people would have fixed it before, because it is precisely the balance that is also being asked that on the one hand we would like people to settle down while they are here. I am against the idea that people should be interned or kept away from society or live off our others' tax money. On the other hand, we must demand active participation, just as it is described, and we must then have it go hand in hand with the fact that it does not in itself make it possible to build up a link with Denmark so that you cannot go back home again. Therefore, it is complex legal and therefore it is not just on the flat hand. But it is going well and I have a clear expectation that we will be able to present an agreement within a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131118	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131121	Of course, people have to contribute when they get here. In fact, we should have made it clear many, many years ago that when you are in Denmark and have a legal residence, you have to go to work and you have to support yourself, and you should not receive benefits, because of course, if you can at all and I think most people can contribute to our society. That is why we have proposed that, not least, women with a non-Western background should work immediately, and if they cannot find their own jobs, society must find a job that they can do. I just noticed the Prime Minister's words about the tripartite agreement. This leads me to ask a specific question, namely: if we stick to the principle that refugees should not stay in Denmark when their protection needs are no longer present, then we have a good idea, common sense, because then we have room to help some others and maybe we can also ensure the future of this society against the integration problems that we see today. Because I do feel that when you sit at the negotiating table as Prime Minister... it is not so many tables that the Prime Minister is taking part in negotiations about, nor about the paradigm shift, I understand that the Prime Minister has done so in connection with the tripartite agreement, so I also assume that that agreement is being kept. I would like to ask whether this applies to the Igu area as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131238	I welcome the fact that we are apparently increasingly looking at things the same way, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen's participation in a former government under the leadership of the then Socialist leader is becoming increasingly dim. It is good that you sign up to the results we have achieved. We have them, among other things. achieved because of the integration service. It is, of course, not least the benefits of integration that have led us to create a strong incentive for people who come here to reach the Danish labour market, also on the shelf that may not appear to be the most attractive. Now it is not I who can ask, but otherwise it would be interesting to know whether this move in the political landscape is taking place at such a rate that the social democracy is now also joining the benefits of integration. I would like to say that it is a tripartite agreement that I am proud of, especially because the whole of the instrument was laid in the grave by the previous government. It is wonderful that we have been able to revive it and now, in three rounds, have achieved some results. Of course we accept the agreements we have made. The Igu will be evaluated here in the first half of 2019, but we will be vigilant about the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131353	Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131355	The Prime Minister spends an amazing amount of time on history writing, and I am happy to take part in it. In other words, I am pleased that the Left voted in favour of the introduction of temporary measures in the asylum procedure in Denmark. It was, of course, a proposal made by the previous government, and I welcome the support for that. What I do not quite understand, however, and there I actually think I am speaking on behalf of the vast majority of Danes is that the government has so much difficulty sending out rejected asylum seekers, has so much difficulty sending out those who come here and criminalise themselves against the common rules of the game and commit serious crime. And then we see at the same time as the ordinary, well-functioning girls who speak Danish, who go to Danish school, who have Danish comrades who cannot be in Denmark. And when the Left was in opposition, everything was easier. It was said at the time: 'Ah, it may be a little more flexible, such that, for example, it may be a little more flexible'. A young 13-year-old girl with Thai roots, Danish, must be allowed to stay. When you listen to the Left today, you can understand from the parliamentary group that it is a good idea that Mint and others in a similar situation can get help, but the Minister does not think so. What does the Prime Minister really think? Is it not a paradox that we cannot get rid of rejected asylum seekers who do not have a basis for staying here, but at the same time send children out of the country, which is already fully integrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131516	Exciting to hear in headline form that Mrs Mette Frederiksen now embraces history. So, my own impression of social democracy is that you have a lot of trouble wiping your feet off in all previous history and in previous political leaders. It is a reminder of something; you have to go back to old Russia to see that kind of leadership showdown. In the Left, we are all aware of our history, and I also admit that it is a challenge that we have people stuck in a broadcasting procedure and we cannot get rid of them. We've turned up what we're showing people. This applies both inside and outside Europe, and we ourselves are also actively involved in it, for example. in relation to the Romanian President, to ensure that some of those of Romanian origin who were in prison in Denmark could go home and serve in Romania. Because it offends, and I am also offended, that we have situations where we cannot get rid of people. In relation to the other side of the coin, one has to remember one's history there too, because the foreign law we have created, including the fact that one cannot leave one's children for a number of years in the country from which one comes, and then expect them to be able to come to Denmark afterwards, served a purpose. It serves a purpose. It was a procedure that we, among other things. Made to avoid Koran schools. And then we are currently looking at the • and that is what the Minister for Integration does • how that legislation works, because I acknowledge that we are experiencing examples that, seen with the naked human eye, do not look good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131701	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131706	Thank you. When you hear the exchange of views right here a moment ago, you almost get the idea that we are approaching a parliamentary election. I don't know if that's right. But I would just like to say, for my part at least, that the best thing to do in politics is to convince others that they are on the right track. At any rate, I remember a time when we were talking about something we called a paradigm shift, and it was not as easy to get so much wind from everywhere for that point of view, but now I understand that the word paradigm change in the policy of aliens is the expression of common sense and that it is a large majority here in the Folketing agreed that it is. Now all we have to do is put it into practice. So I think it is a good thing, even for the negotiations that we have just these days around this. So it's actually just enough about that. What I wanted to ask the Prime Minister is something called Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. It is certainly English here in a Danish Question Time, but it is, of course, about the United Nations system talking about the signing of a declaration on migration in Morocco here on 10 and 11 December. When you look at that statement and turn it through, there are quite a lot of places in this statement where you get the impression that it contains things that are not exactly what we want to do here in Denmark. In other words, migrants must have more rights; better access to the labour market in the country to which they come; easier to bring social benefits from country to country; easier for migrants to have family reunification; better mutual respect for the culture and traditions of migrants; easier for those who have used traffickers to have temporary or permanent residence, etc. etc. That's a lot of things, and when I read this statement through, I think that's not exactly what we want to be in force here in Denmark. That is why we in the Danish People's Party of course think that it is a problem if Denmark signs a declaration which actually goes against what we want to be in force here in Denmark in essential areas of its content. I would very much like to hear the Prime Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127131921	Thank you. May I not start by saying that I and the government could never dream of agreeing to a paper that weakens our ability to pursue the strict immigration policy we are pursuing in Denmark. We have brought it together. It's working. There is the lowest number of asylum seekers seen in Denmark for 9 years. I was just talking to Mrs. Mette Frederiksen about... the problem of expelling people who have no legal basis for residence in Denmark. That is where we need to make progress. We will not have that without international cooperation. And the paper that is here is a UN paper. It is rare to see as much attention about a UN paper as you see here. But I must also say that when I have followed the debate on this United Nations paper, which is primarily being developed on social media, I have never seen so much disinformation as what I have been watching and listening to. We've had a thoroughness about this. We have carried out a legal analysis. I would like to make it available to the Folketing and forward it to the relevant committee, and that is probably the Foreign Policy Name, I believe. Because we could not dream of agreeing to something that weakens our conditions or creates new obligations for us. The most interesting thing in this paper from my point of view is the fact that it is stated that the countries from which illegal migrants come have a fundamental duty to take them back. We need that signal when we reach out, both in Denmark and in the EU, to those countries, not least in Africa, from which we see illegal migration. So there is no legal bond. This does not weaken our ability to conduct our policy. My own reading is that it improves our ability to maintain our tight asylum policy. There won't be a single migrant either legally or illegally any more into Denmark because of this paper. But I have also taken note of the concern that the paper in the reading it will in any case be subject to on the social media creates. That is why Denmark is going to give an explanation of vote, and I have been working quite hard in recent weeks on the basis of the meeting I held at Marienborg with Prime Minister colleagues from countries in Europe, who also have a liberal connection, to get support for such a declaration of votes. Before I have the floor, I would like to say that, if there is an interest in it in the relevant parliamentary committee, I would very much like to ask a relevant minister to come and explain the work that we are in the middle of, where we are going to give an explanation of vote which clarifies Denmark's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132224	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132226	We are, of course, very happy to accept this and will also prompt us to ask about it, so that we can get it to the Folketing. After all, it is difficult to deal with a statement which, on the one hand, is not binding on Denmark on its content, but which, on the other hand, obliges other countries on its content. What one might well ask is why North African countries should suddenly want to withdraw their own citizens, because we are signing a declaration which, by the way, we do not intend to comply with, but say that they should. On the other hand, one can have the fear that Denmark is such a country. We are traditional, and I like that, if we sign something, only sign it, whether it is legally binding, because we actually want to work in that direction. We're the kind of people who need to know that a man is a man and a deal is a deal. So if you sign something, it's because you want it. I like the moral code. How can the Prime Minister convince the Danish Parliament, the Danish People's Party and the people that we can quietly sign something in which we can see a content that is actually difficult in relation to the immigration policy we want to pursue, but that it is not a problem because it is not legally binding? We've had that checked out, so we can sign it anyway. There are some things where you think arh, because the whole basis of this is, of course, that migration is positive for a society, it needs to be emphasised and something like that. I would certainly like the Prime Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132402	Thank you. Here you go. And you can keep to your speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132405	It's not a perfect paper. I do not think I can think of a single paper from the United Nations, which has grown up in a consensus among 192 countries that is perfect and reminiscent of something that I myself would have written word for word. But that is the price at which international cooperation comes, and perhaps that is where we need to address it. I therefore take the view that it basically serves a small country as Denmark's interest to participate in an international cooperation that promotes our interests. When asked if this means they're doing it all of a sudden in Africa, the answer is depressing, isn't it? But what is interesting here is that it is not a new obligation to take back your own citizens, but an obligation that exists under international law, which we are now getting these countries to reaffirm, and it is a small stepping stone to the work that is going on both bilaterally and in the European Union, where we are pushing these countries, and it is both with the tough hand, but also with development aid, to help us not have this migratory pressure on Europe. In terms of commitments, it is our assessment and it is in the legal assessment that we would like to translate that this does not create any obligation for Denmark, i.e. no obligation to do something we do not already do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132528	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132530	Thank you for your answer. After all, there are quite a number of countries which have now considered that it is too risky to sign and endorse this declaration at this stage. I believe that there are up to a quarter of the EU countries at this stage that have reached that conclusion. The United States has done so from the outset, but also Australia, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Croatia, Bulgaria, Israel and Estonia have informed us that they will not sign. Switzerland will postpone the decision to sign until they think it better clarified. And I would certainly like to put myself in the slipstream of the concerns of all these countries. A minister in Australia says that the policy they are pursuing cannot be conducted with this declaration. Maybe legally in relation to what is binding and non-binding, but not if they are to implement what is stated in the declaration. They do not believe that they can maintain the immigration policy that they have now, which is to prevent it from becoming such a roof-top table, depending on who gets its way to a given country and who does not. So I just want to ask the Prime Minister to consider this very, very carefully. I would like to accept the offer that we will have the legal assessments in the Folketing, and then we can continue the debate on this. But just to conclude: does it not also make a special impression on the Prime Minister that there are, in fact, now a number of EU countries who say no to participate in this declaration? In other words, Austria is an EU Presidency; Australia is not an EU country, but it is a country we normally seem to be close to; it is the United States, our close allies, who have chosen to say from the outset that they did not want to be part of this declaration. Does it not impress the Prime Minister that it is also such countries that refuse to take part in this declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132724	Now I don't recognize the whole list. I can, for example. do not recognize the fact that Estonia should not be here. I mean, I'm familiar with Estonia. The picture that emerges in Europe is surely that the Visegrád countries, plus Austria, are the ones who are turning their backs on this. And I find that regrettable. I find it particularly regrettable that Austria, as a country holding the Presidency, has not used its Presidency to process a European solution. But again, and it gets too short in this set-up, it has to be said that with the reading that has been done on this agreement, not least on the social media, where I can see that I am accused of treason, and that we are now entering into an agreement that just invites millions of people to Denmark, there is so much disinformation that it in itself advocates clarification of what this is and is not about. It would indeed have been a task for a country holding the Presidency of the European Union to take it on board. You haven't done that. Instead, we have done so. As I have said, we are working hard in these days to get a circle of countries that match those we normally see ourselves with, sharing values and politics with, on board an explanation of vote which clarifies what this is and what it is not about. I would not dream of luring Denmark into a project that weakens our ability to pursue the policy we have. There is no obligation here to open up more migration. However, the text could have been clearer in its distinction between illegal immigrants and legal immigrants, and that is what we are clarifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132855	Thank you. The question is closed. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127132904	Thank you. Last week the so-called ghetto package was adopted by the government together with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF, and it means, among other things, that if a residential area has been on the ghetto list for enough years, it will be required to reduce the number of family homes to 40%. This means that either housing must be demolished or housing must be sold from or converted. It is, of course, extremely critical, and I believe that the Prime Minister has noticed this too, from housing associations and, above all, from the residents who are affected by it here and who live in the areas we are talking so much about because there are problems in socially vulnerable residential areas. It's clear. There is higher crime, more unemployed, a concentration of people with low education. I think the residents know that too, but there are also a lot of people who are still very happy to live there and who are doing a lot to make it better and make it go in the right direction. I saw a little movie on the Internet yesterday. It was Putte, 71 years old, who had some questions. She's been living in Finland Park in Vejle for 45 years. It is an area where there are 23 residents too much without work, and therefore up to 317 homes should either be demolished or sold off. She is then asked what she thinks of it, and then she answers: I am not satisfied with that. I don't see where they want us to live. She's telling us a story about Børge and Tove over in block 3. He goes out on the balcony to breathe a little fresh air, and then she goes shopping, and then they wave to each other, and it's so nice, and then we get a good day, as she says. They've been waving at each other for 50 years, she says. And then she says she thinks it's nice to live there. Where do they want us to move? Why do you have to tear it down? I think it's silly. And putte is kind of asking for something important, and she deserves an answer, which is why I am now passing it on to the Prime Minister. Why do these apartments have to be demolished? Where's Putte gonna move to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133120	Thank you. It is not the case that they necessarily have to be demolished. Let's just stick to the goal here. The objective, and I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind it, is that we should turn these ghetto areas into more ordinary residential areas with the aim of bringing the number of general family homes down to 40%, so four out of ten dwellings in such a residential area are common family homes. There are different ways of doing that. There are some places where one can build oneself for it, i.e. where one can supplement the settlement that already exists, with owner's homes or co-operatives or private rentals, so that without tearing down a single dwelling one reaches this percentage by simply filling up, so that the area appears more diverse. That's one way to go. Another way to go is to sell off, and a third way to go, you might call it such a kind of worst case, is to tear down. Let's get these proportions straight. There are about 600,000 general family homes in Denmark, and if you imagined that the entire transformation of the 16 most exposed ghetto areas would take place in worst case, we are talking about that there would be a need for approx. 11,000 resettlements, that is, from now on until 2030. That's 2%. 2 per cent of the total supply of general housing in Denmark. of the total number of general housing in Denmark. If you add to that that you go in and look at what kind of natural replacement there is, then I have to say that the picture that tells us that people are almost torn out of their apartments, which are torn down a split second after they have packed their suitcase, is an image that I do not recognize. So you just have to conclude that if we don't want to go along with this objective, it really covers something else. It conceals a lack of political will to have a fight with these ghetto communities, and I admit that we in the government want that, and I am glad that there is a broad majority behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133329	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133331	So, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that there are residential areas that are at risk; it is obvious that there are residential areas that have a higher level of crime and more social problems, language difficulties, etc. I don't think anyone's questioning that. What is the question is what should the people who live there now do. It may be that it is only 2% that the Prime Minister is talking about, but it is 11,000 homes, places where people live now, and these are people who cannot just move up and buy themselves a condo somewhere and who, incidentally, like to live where they live. They just want help to solve the problems they have instead of their residential areas being wiped out. The Prime Minister did not answer the question. Yes, there are problems in vulnerable residential areas. Yes, it would be good to interfere. There is just no answer to why the solution has to go beyond people like Putte, people who have worked a long life, people who are retired, have done nothing wrong and, by the way, like living where they live. Why does it have to hit people like her?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133444	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133445	Yeah, I definitely answered that. So, whoever does not answer is Mrs Pernille Skipper, who says that they agree with all the problems, but who does not want to do anything about them, and then it just becomes such an empty statement. We want Denmark to be free of ghettos by 2030. We don't want to look at it anymore. We do not want to see residential areas that appear as closed in relation to the normal society, where the authorities find it difficult to penetrate; where there is no law and rule. We will not look at that! That's why these areas need to be transformed. That is why we have this objective of reducing the number of general family homes to four out of ten. Then freedom has been created for this to happen in various ways. This can be done by encapsulating and building other forms of dwelling; it can be done by changing the forms of ownership; and it can also be done by tearing down. That's why we've appointed three ghetto representatives and that's how plans are to be realized by 2030. And yes, worst case, i.e. if it's the only ideas you can come up with, but it's not the only ideas, but if it was in all the 16 ghetto areas, so that you can only achieve this by selling or tearing down, leads to a need for 11,200 rehousings, which must therefore be seen in the light of the large general housing stock we have at our disposal, namely 600,000. Therefore, this is a problem that can be dealt with by people being offered another home; by some moving out and that Putte moving into the apartment they lived in if her own to be demolished. Well, that's what we now have 12 years to get in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133623	Thank you. Here you go. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133625	The Prime Minister says that there is a freedom to do so in different ways, but the only tool provided by the Folketing is just a hard hand and a threat that if the territories do not do it themselves, then the Folketing will come and do it for them. After all, these are areas which have been working on the problems that exist for a very long time and which, moreover, are moving forward. In Finland's park, 23 people are out of work making them on the ghetto list. What I hear the Prime Minister say is that some ordinary people are going down, and the Prime Minister doesn't care about that, by the way. I think this is another example of a lot of demands being made on those who have the least and have to lift the most when solving the problems. So, why don't we build cheap homes elsewhere? I agree with the premise that we need to be mixed up in this society. Does the Folketing place money and will behind the construction of cheap housing in the richest neighborhoods of our country, so that we can mix something more? Has the Folketing made provision for replacement housing for people who can't just go out and buy themselves a condominium? No!
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133737	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133738	Yes, we have 600,000 general housing in this country, and my forecast is that there will be more. For example: After all, we have just reached an agreement in principle with Copenhagen to create a whole new district, which will be handled by the City of Copenhagen in such a way that a large part of the area will be devoted precisely to general housing. It is also a wrong picture drawn when it is said that the government and the Folketing are just coming with a hard hand. We don't. We come with a whole toolbox, a ghetto plan that creates a commitment for these residential areas in interaction with the municipalities and with the assistance of three special ghetto representatives to make this move from having these ghetto communities, which I must understand that Pernille Skipper doesn't want either, to something that appears much more open and in accordance with the way life is otherwise lived in Denmark. And there we have this objective, which can be achieved by using various tools, an ambitious objective, but also realistic. And the picture that is drawn from the fact that this can only be achieved by tearing the dwelling down over people's heads is a wrong picture, and I have tried to put the figures in proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133849	Thank you. The question is closed. The next one is sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127133856	Thank you. Okay, let's change the tracks. We're going to the green trail. There were two climate reports last week, one at home and one at home. We start in the United States where we saw a very serious climate report coming out. It was landed on Friday in the middle of Black Friday. I don't know if it was a strategic decision by Trump, but it got a lot of attention anyway. One of the things that the report focused on was: what does it cost American society if we do nothing about climate change? The figure they calculated was quite insanely high; up to several hundred billion dollars it would cost up to 2050, and up to 2100 it would amount to up to 10 per cent. of the American bnp, if you didn't do anything. The things they had calculated were destroyed infrastructure, restricting access to clean water, changing coastlines, increasing costs for a large number of industries, etc. etc. And, of course, the health of our citizens. What comes to my mind is: Has the Danish government made any risk assessments of what it will cost Danish economy and Danish society if we do nothing and if the temperature rises not just 1.5 degrees, but 2, 3 or 4 degrees? In all sorts of other areas, we have plenty of projections, be it demography or the question of the number of immigrants or refugees, job rates, etc. etc. So my question is: do we have it in the area of climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134100	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134102	I cannot just stand here and point to some particular document, but it may not be so important in a Danish context either, because we acknowledge that there is a problem here that we need to address. It can be said that it is something more interesting in an American context, where the first thing that happens is that the President turns his back on the one who is projected and will not admit it at all. Fortunately, Denmark is a country where we have broad support for the view that climate change is man-made. They come with a price, they come with a price on Denmark, but they also come with a price on the whole world. Some of the themes we have talked about today in connection with illegal migration can of course be written back to this. If there is no agricultural and development potential in countries in Africa that are affected or flooded, then it is moving forward. So I really don't need so many numbers to come to the conclusion that we have to do something about this, and we do that too. That is why we have set high targets. That is why the European Union has undertaken to set the sharpest objectives in the Paris Declaration. That is why we have reached a broad energy agreement. That is why we have presented a climate and air project. And we must continue along that path. I think there's also a connection here to what we talked about before, this migration pact. No matter what we do, if we do meat-free days all week in Denmark, then our contribution to CO2 So if we don't get the rest of the world, we're not moving anything. So for me, it's just a strong reminder that we need to continue the work we do in Denmark and to which there's broad support, to influence the international agenda and to act at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134238	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134240	I do not really doubt the Prime Minister's ambitions or, at least, his intentions in this area. On the other hand, we may disagree a little on the level of ambition. The reason I raise this question at all is, of course, that what you have numbers you talk about. So if we don't have numbers on this, it's definitely something I'd suggest we get. We can then take that discussion at another time. But what we can at least do here in Denmark is to limit CO2 We got a Danish climate report last week which said that the level of ambition is not high enough if we want to achieve the Paris goals. One of the sectors in which the government has not been very clear is agriculture. You can also talk about transport, but now we're talking about agriculture. So what will the government do in concrete terms to reduce the climate footprint of agriculture and hence CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134348	Thank you, and here's to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134351	After all, Danish agriculture is reducing its climate footprint. Now I come from the opening of Agromek in Herning this morning, where I am among others. had the pleasure of sitting in a blue tractor, which was green because it was CO2 Also here I think we need to find a balance. Danish agro-industry exports something similar to two-digit billion dollars, with sustainable, modern agricultural technology, which is being developed in Denmark because we are making demands. So we must continue to do so. But the solution cannot be that we close down Danish agriculture, because then we do not have the model farming that can serve as an example to the rest of the world. In what we have put forward, we are putting forward the idea that, among other things, we should: invest more in technology development and research in this area. We produce some of the world's safest food with one of the world's smallest CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134503	Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134504	Oh, I could say a lot about Danish agriculture. But one thing that is certainly certain is that the production of cows and pigs emits about one fifth of our CO2 so it is not just a matter of driving on a blue tractor that is green because it may be powered by electricity, but that is the whole way we produce in agriculture at all. What is Danish agriculture going to produce? And how do we move from very meat-producing agricultural production to more plant-based agricultural production? So even though the intentions of the Prime Minister may be sympathetic, the effect is just not nearly ambitious enough, compared to what I think we should do. The last question is that Denmark holds the presidency in what is called the Amsterdam partnership in the European Union. It is about avoiding too much of the forest we have. And there is again a problem child in Danish agriculture, because we import really, very much soy feed. It is the case that soya is produced on an area similar to Sjælland and Falster in Argentina. And it's a huge problem. So does the Prime Minister have any considerations as to how we can reduce this huge import of soy animal feed? And it is the Members of the Alternative who are asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134645	Thank you for the question, which, as such, also underlines an international context and a global context in these questions, where I will just say about what we talked about before, that if we remove some of the world's most sustainable production without removing demand, then because people keep asking for meat products, we will just move it somewhere else on the planet with a higher CO2 and that is why we need to find the balance where Denmark as a country that leads can help not only make Danish agriculture more sustainable but also inspire others to do so. Then it is quite right that Denmark has signed these two Amsterdam Partnership Agreements and during the current six months the Presidency of this Amsterdam Partnership. In this context, we have presented an action plan for new sustainable proteins in this circle with a number of initiatives. Similarly, in an EU context, the Minister for the Environment and Food has pressed the Commission for an EU action plan against deforestation, which is, of course, the problem behind it because we are deforestation to grow protein in the form of soya, which, if we were to do differently, could have been dealt with by having more sustainable production. So there is a need for international cooperation here too, and Denmark is taking initiatives in this six-month period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134810	Thank you. The last question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127134817	I will begin by trying something new and agreeing with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who was very astonished to hear a moment ago that the word he hurled out a year ago, namely paradigm change, has now become all-powerful, at least in the hands of both the Left and the Social Democratic Party. It is such a picture of Danish politics that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says paradigm change, and then the Prime Minister says: Yes, how big, how many, how fast? Unfortunately, we also have to say that the Social Democrats, although they still do not really know what the content is, are today voting in favour of it. But if we're in that lead, I'd like to have a paradigm change. How about a paradigm change where you conduct a policy in good times when fewer children in Denmark are going to grow up in poverty instead of more? After all, the Prime Minister promised in the last election campaign that a policy would not be pursued that brought children below the poverty line imposed by the previous government. Every day there has just been more and more people, and now we understand that we are negotiating further deterioration for the families that have the least. Or what about a paradigm shift that prevents young people or children with poor social conditions from becoming criminals, instead of introducing measures against which all professionals turn and which are simply about locking them up? Or could there be a paradigm shift for the 93 children in the Soulsmark Kaser, who daily live in a closed barracks, and who really just want to live a life like most children in Denmark do? Because I think the answer is no to the first questions, I would like to ask about a place where there might be an opening. There are ordinary Danish citizens who have done so, that they have fallen in love with a foreigner and would like to be allowed to live in Denmark, also with their stepchildren, as for example. applies in the history of Mint from Køge or Aphinya or the others. What about them, Prime Minister? Was there not an opportunity for there to be a paradigm change so that Danish citizens could be allowed to live in their own country with those they love, their spouse and any stepchildren, even if they were not born in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135027	Thank you. May I not first say that I do not believe that I used the word paradigm change. And I think words mean the content you create around them. I used the expression that we have to go back to what I consider to be the original purpose of the concept of refugees, and this is based on temporary nature. I had a conversation with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on social media disinformation, and I am a little disappointed that Mr. Morten Østergaard then brings this culture into the Folketing. The picture of ten-year-olds now being locked up is as far from reality and as much as a majority in this Parliament has decided as it can come. And I simply do not understand that Mr. Morten Østergaard will write himself in among those who debate in this way. What we have done with our proposal to combat juvenile delinquency, for which there is support in this Parliament, is to try to arm a heavy social problem: the fact that we have been all too bad, too bad, to take things up and that too many children and young people who have sniffed crime have sniffed so much that they became hardened criminals before society met them with a proper consequence. That's what this is all about. It's not like you're imprisoning kids. It is something to meet them with consistency: a hard hand and a warm hand so that they can move on in life. So I can't even see myself in the way these things are described. Quite analogous to this, I have always had the impression that the Radical Left is a party which subscribes to the view of the fundamental principles of the rule of law: that the law is equal for all. Apparently, it doesn't have to be. For some of the cases referred to are, after all, cases arising from the fact that the Folketing has made a law to deal with some heavy social problems, for example. the problem that we saw that young people who should actually be in Denmark and shaped by Denmark were allowed to stay with the family in countries which represent a different culture, thereby reducing their opportunities for integration. That is what we have made the legislation for. Then there are some consequences. These are the ones that are specifically mentioned, and I have to say that I take this quite seriously, and we are looking at that and we are analysing it. Some of this I think is about better information for the parents who marry into Denmark and go to Denmark without their children and then only bring them up here several years after; they should perhaps have brought the children from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135315	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135317	I understand that the Prime Minister is getting a little excited, because government policy is not for children when it comes to these things; it really isn't. But let's just stay at the end. The Prime Minister says that the principles of the rule of law must be respected. I am very much in favour of this, and I also hope that it is the message to the Danish People's Party that will experiment with the understanding of the constitution and so on. However, in relation to this, the question raised first by the Left in the election campaign and now by the Danish People's Party concerns the idea that it should be possible to do what the Prime Minister probably warns against, namely that in some way a parliamentary committee should be able to go in and allow mercy to prevail if one still thinks it is too sad with those decisions. I am much more concerned with the principles of the rule of law, so I can just ask the Prime Minister to make it clear that, on the part of the government, it is crucial that whatever Danish citizen is talking about, one must know one's rights in living in Danish society with the people one loves and the children under the conditions it should be, so that they must be the same for everyone and there should not be anything with a parliamentary committee that can grant an exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135421	Thank you. We need to have the last question, but there is a bit of unrest in the Chamber, so I would ask that we take the last question quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135429	Yes, sir. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left, in any case, have written off an opportunity for how to deal with this. To be quite open about it is one of the things we are challenged by the • and which I think is a dilemma for all of us, if we take this very seriously • that we sort of make legislation to solve some heavy social problems, and when we have solved them, i.e. because they work, we are faced with the effects of them and sometimes in a situation where we think that it wasn't just that. And this case is an example of that. Another example of this was what we had in Parliament's Question Time the last time we were here, namely about the insecurity-building begging and the camps. We made an intervention in 2017 to break up with Roma camps in Copenhagen, which spread insecurity and unhealthy conditions, and which I believe the police have ruled about 390 times. Somewhere between six and ten Danish citizens have had a similar reaction. The big problem we have solved is that it has disappeared from the political debate and then everyone is looking at the fact that there are quite a few Danish homeless people who have got caught up in this. We need to have an open talk about that, and I'm happy to join in an open talk about this, but if you insist that the rules should be square and, for example, square. It is therefore very, very heavy that we should be able to have derogations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135558	Thank you. Then that is the last question, and finally there must be a little more calm and respect for the questioner and the one who answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135608	Yes, but the Prime Minister says the goal is to solve social problems. What is the reality of the law on integration assessments is that it creates problems. After all, there is no connection between the families affected and the aim of the law when it was dealt with in the Danish Parliament in a matter of 48 hours. I am not the one who has said that right must be right and that everyone should be able to count on it; it is the Minister for Integration who has said so. It is, of course, slightly opposed to what the Left was going to vote on, and that is why we are asking the Prime Minister today to do so. And if I may also make demands on the answer, I would prefer it to be about what I am asking and not about all sorts of other issues. Because there are real, very many real families who live in uncertainty about what these conditions are. Some of them have had to settle outside Denmark to live with those they love. I do not think we can be familiar with this, but in any case I think it must be the case that land should be built by law. And I just want to know if the Prime Minister agrees with the Minister of Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135711	I fully agree that land must be built by law. Now I noticed that Mr. Morten Østergaard for a medium ahead of this Question Time said that you wouldn't interfere in how people live their lives. Neither do I, but the way you organize yourself has a consequence. And in Danish legislation we have arranged ourselves in a way that includes: in order to solve some problems with Koran schools and others that require that if you bring the children here late, then an integration assessment is carried out. This creates, among other things, a number of problems. the possibility that, as parents, you take your children to Denmark before, so that you do not get into the situation where, having let them live in another country, you obviously live better, since you haven't brought them here, and where an independent board then estimates that they can't be here, then it's suddenly a disaster that they have to go home again. The fact that land must be built by law also implies an obligation on citizens to understand the rules, and there is also an obligation on us to inform about them. And that is why we need to take seriously some of the cases we have seen, which have not been in focus, because the problems we wanted to solve when we made the general legislation, by looking at what they are for some cases, how many there are of those cases, and whether those cases could have been avoided if you had acted in the past. Is this about providing better information, or is this about some rules having to be adjusted? This is the right way to go into this, and the government is working on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135842	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135852	The Legal Affairs Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the year 2017. B 51). The report and the recommendation will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135907	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? And if you want to, this is from the platform. There isn't. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127135937	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140006	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140025	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140051	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140106	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140151	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140217	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140236	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140302	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140325	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140354	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140408	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140430	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140445	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140514	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140533	In the near future we will be voting on L 65 B. The Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten have indicated that they will vote against, and we wonder about that in the Left. I actually thought that there was a broad political consensus on a better balance for Denmark. The government has relocated twice. 4,000 government jobs, and the transfer of jobs from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg is part of the desire for a better balance in Denmark. And when the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten have now voted against, it is a sad example that when words are followed by action, then the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten back out. Everyone must be puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140622	Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140626	I'm surprised, too, I'd say. That is a mistake in the report in that case. We're voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140644	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140648	I agree with what Stine Brix has just said. The SF is going to vote in favour of this particular proposal. On the other hand, we have voted against the proposal to move the control of medicinal products from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, and it seems that this has little to do with the relocation of jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140708	Anyone else want to make a statement? Is that for the rapporteur, or how? Then I have to call the rapporteur back. But you can do it quickly so we don't have to change it. Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140726	What if all the law was so easy in the Folketing? I would just like to thank you very much for your support for both the SF and the Enhedslisten. Everyone must be pleased to be able to decide here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140742	I don't know if it takes an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140744	Nothing more than that the report also makes good sense, so it is nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140750	Has the Minister pressed the wrong button or is the Minister going to say something? Oh, okay. I just need to make sure there's no more. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140806	It's a bill that's been split into two. And when I take the floor, and I also took the floor at second reading, it is because both of these elements are now called L 65 A, and what is now L 65 B is part of the government's relocation plan...Better balance-of-state jobs closer to citizens and businesses, and which is a concrete expression of the government's ambition to ensure a better balance for Denmark, where we have relocated almost 4 000 government jobs and established them in the country to ensure a state presence across the country. And both the part about setting up the Center for Market Monitoring in the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg and moving competences from the Danish Medicines Agency in Copenhagen and placing them in Esbjerg in a newly created centre, and also the part that is about • also as part of a stronger tobacco control • to ensure that the centre will be located in the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg and not in the Danish Health Authority in Copenhagen, for which there are red parties that have spoken, is an expression of the government's prioritising a Denmark in better balance. It will therefore be possible to see from the vote on L 65 A that both SF and Enhedslisten voted against and thus voted against placing the jobs in Esbjerg as part of the relocation plan Denmark in better balance. And it must be surprising, because it is an expression that action does not follow speech when SF and Enhedslisten say that they want a Denmark in better balance. Apparently, this was not the case here, and it obviously did not apply to jobs established in Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140936	Thank you. And there are some comments. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127140940	Thank you. So, I simply do not see the connection between SF not supporting a Denmark in balance and the fact that the Minister for Health, precisely with the proposal that was dealt with a moment ago, is proposing to move the control of medicinal products from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Agency for Safety and Health at Work. In my view, this is really the same as proposing to move the control of occupational injuries from the Danish Labour Inspectorate to the Danish Food Safety Authority, and that does not make sense. So this is exactly the relationship that the SF is opposed to, and not, as such, a question of relocation of tasks to other parts of the country. Can the Minister not confirm that this proposal is about moving tasks from one board to another board which has not dealt with medicines in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141032	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141034	I can fully confirm that the relocation that is taking place for the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg has everything to do with a better balance in Denmark. It is the relocation of state jobs. And when SF and Enhedslisten vote against, it is a clear indication that when it comes to letting action follow speech and good intentions, SF and Enhedslisten will not support up. Jobs cannot be relocated unless governments or parts of government are specifically relocated and established in other parts of the country. This is what the government has set out to do with a better balance in Denmark, both I and II, where in both rounds we have relocated and established up to 4,000 jobs, in other words almost 8,000 jobs, in the country to ensure a better balance for Denmark. And I'm just surprised that Enhedslisten and SF don't support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141120	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141122	There is a huge difference between supporting the relocation of jobs and moving tasks from one board to another when it comes to controlling something as important as medicines. This is and remains the only reason why SF cannot support moving control of medicinal products from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Safety Agency. Because it cannot be the case that we compromise on quality, while at the same time we also have to relocate jobs. So I just think that the Minister for Health should find some other jobs to move out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141154	Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141155	Yes, and that is always the case: when action is to follow speech, SF and Enhedslisten stand off. Because it wasn't exactly these jobs that we had to relocate and in this case move to Esbjerg to help support a Denmark in better balance. And this simply underlines the point: it is hot air when you say that you want a Denmark in better balance. Because when it comes to the concrete legislative proposals that must implement the decision and the great effort to also ensure the presence of state jobs throughout the country, then the SF does not support that, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141228	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141230	Okay, I was a little confused by the fact that Mrs Jane Heitmann was concerned with the proposal concerning the control of tobacco and alcohol, but that is really the proposal we were dealing with just now, which the Minister for Health and Mrs Jane Heitmann would like to discuss. I get it, too. We voted quite rightly on this when we voted against it, and now that we are about to vote on something other than what we are discussing, we are voting in favour. Good. That is also what the report says. Okay. It is quite true that we are voting against moving tasks from the Danish Medicines Agency to the Danish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, namely a task of controlling the sale of medicines. We do so because the Minister for Health has clearly answered the questions we have asked, that there will be fewer inspections and there will also be a weakening of professional competence. The Minister also replied clearly at first reading that there are no professional arguments for doing this relocation of tasks. If the Minister wanted to move the people who are working with it to Esbjerg, then this is a whole different discussion, and that is why I think it is quite a game of campaign rhetoric that we are working on here, where the Minister would like to put an agenda on something quite different from what is actually the consequences of the bill that the government is bringing in. Too bad, but a good argument for voting against what we did just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141350	Yes, unfortunately, because this means that SF and Enhedslisten do not support the concrete implementation of a Denmark in a better balance with the jobs that are now to be anchored in Esbjerg, and which actually have a role to play in ensuring a better balance between Denmark and Denmark; recruitment, where the state jobs also help to secure jobs for two, helps to support strong professional environments. It is not true, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, that this is being decoupled from professionalism. An entirely new market monitoring centre will be set up at the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg, where control tasks from other ministries will also be carried out in relation to precisely building up a professional competence. That is why I am very surprised that Enhedslisten does not support a Denmark in a better balance when one specifically votes against what is then called L 65 A. When I also speak under L 65 B, it is because the discussion at first reading also showed that several parties believed that the control task in L 65 B should be placed in the Danish Health Authority in Copenhagen instead of what the government is proposing, that is, in the Danish Security Agency in Esbjerg. I am so glad that the third reading has reached that point, because it is supported, however, that it is placed in Esbjerg. But it does not change what is the whole relationship, namely that SF and Enhedslisten do not let action follow speech when it comes to a better balance in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141503	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141505	I am simply suggesting that we should be able to look at whether the Danish Medicines Agency should be moved rather than starting to weaken professionalism and, moreover, suggest that there should be fewer visits. Well, that's a shame, first and foremost, for the patients. Medicines are a very sensitive area and therefore it is insanely important that there is control that it then happens in a proper way when you sell it in Irma or in the Usage or anywhere else. That is why I think it is really a pity that you now disregard the professionalism that has been built up in the Danish Medicines Agency for many years, and then you have to start all over again. But how about moving some of the people who work on this task in the Danish Medicines Agency to Esbjerg rather than weakening professionalism and also getting fewer visits, which the government is unfortunately proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141552	So, I have not heard a single concrete proposal from the Enhedslisten throughout the whole legislative process, either on this specific bill or on other proposals in the Ministry of Health, where Enhedslisten has a concrete proposal for the relocation of employees. But if Enhedslisten makes such a proposal, we must look at it. That is not what we are dealing with today. What we are discussing today is the creation of a market surveillance centre in Esbjerg and also the addition of additional competence to the control efforts in the area of tobacco located at the Safety Authority in Esbjerg and thus jobs in Esbjerg. It's not about weakening something, it's about bringing some professional skills together in a new center in the Danish Security Authority as part of a better balance in Denmark. And Enhedslisten doesn't support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141632	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141634	It is new to me that there is also hot air in •Better balance • State jobs closer to citizens and businesses • Because I would like to ask the Minister: how many new jobs have been created with better balance? Jobs have been relocated in one place and destroyed a great deal of professionalism. But how many new jobs are there? Because then I'd like to join the field. If we can create new jobs, I'm in. But that's not what the government does; you just move people around. How many new jobs has the government created in better balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141707	Now the Enhedslisten tones the pure flag: •Better balance • State jobs closer to citizens and companies• is hot air. The relocation of state jobs is hot air. So, excuse me, in the part of the country in which I live, in South Jutland, there is no warm air in the relocation of jobs. There are specific jobs for specific people, where it means a difference whether you can stay in an area and whether you can get jobs for your spouse. But I understand that's hot air for the Enhedslisten. The government is at the goal of the relocation plan we have made, where we move and re-establish state jobs throughout the country, because it is important to ensure a Denmark in better balance, that is to say that the state is present all over the country, and we are also through the relocation plan we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141746	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141748	There is little vision in creating jobs in Jutland and creating unemployment in Copenhagen. I don't understand any of that. And when the price on top of that is professionalism, I would say that there are people in Greenland who are now waiting for charts for the second year. It is dangerous to have too old charts up in Greenland, and that is because with the devil's violence and power you had to move jobs from Copenhagen to Aalborg, and then everything stopped. There are workers injured in this country who have been given an extension of their processing time because with the devil's violence and power they had to move the Labour Damage Board around to three different destinations in Denmark because it takes time to teach new people. It is a loss of professionalism and therefore there is good reason to say that a large part of better balance is hot air. No new jobs have been created, some jobs have just been moved, and that means that Copenhageners can live with a little more unemployment and then the Jutlanders get a little bit. There isn't much vision in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141843	Thank you, and we're trying to make it without the Devil and our Lord in here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141849	I really think this is a very good debate, because it shows quite clearly that Enhedslisten does not support the relocation of state jobs and better balance - state jobs closer to citizens and businesses • neither you nor I can hear that from the specific comments made by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I know that the climate minister has responded to the part about the Greenlandic charts, and I also know that my fellow minister has replied to some other parts. We have never said that there should be no loss of productivity in a short transitional period when state jobs are relocated and created elsewhere in the country. But we also have to stick to the fact that our political mission is a better-balanced Denmark, and that also means that state jobs must be present throughout the country. And so Enhedslisten does not support that, and we have made that clear today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141932	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127141936	It is very sensible to look at how to place jobs around the country. Now I am the tax rapporteur, and in the field of taxation, it is the case that a great many people are being employed in our tax administration in order to correct the fact that the party represented by the Minister has been in the forefront of the work or what to call it to save the tax administration to pieces and to destroy our tax administration with constant restructuring. Now many new people are being employed, and in this respect it is very wise to look at how we can then put the new jobs that are being created around the country outside the big cities to ensure a better balance for Denmark. But if we go downstairs and look at how the government is actually tackling this problem, then you don't make relocations, because that's really not the right concept. It is more roundabouts where people move around the country and destroy professional environments, and it also meant that at the end of October the Danish Customs & Tax Association, which organises a great many tax workers in this area, had a meeting of representatives, where they had gathered shop stewards from all over the country, where they pointed out that with the way the government is carrying this out, there will be a massive loss of competence, a huge loss of productivity, and they call what the government is doing another in the series of organisational experiments that the tax administration is experiencing. It is just to say yes to job relocations and yes to strengthening rural areas, but in a wise way and not in a very ill-thought-out way, which is what the government is currently at the forefront of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142107	For me, it just confirms once again that Enhedslisten does not support a Denmark in better balance and the relocation of state jobs. Because when we talk about the specific bill, Enhedslisten doesn't support it when it comes to the Spatial Data Board, Enhedslisten doesn't support it, and when it comes to the tax administration, Enhedslisten doesn't support it. And that, in fact, underlines exactly the point that the rapporteur of the Left also made from up here, that is that when speeches are to be followed by action, Enhedslisten and SF are off, then you do not support a Denmark in better balance. As far as the tax administration and the dialogue are concerned, I also know that the tax minister has taken the initiative, so it is the case that there was a massive cut when Mr. Rune Lund's party supported a red government and cut down. Now we are reconstructing, and that is a long, cool move, and there is securing a location of tax jobs throughout the country also part of ensuring better balance throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142154	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142156	I would just like to correct the misunderstanding that we should ever have voted in favour of tax cuts. We don't. However, in the 2014 Finance Act, which the SRSF government made together with the blue parties here in the Danish Parliament, 400 posts were closed down in the tax administration. But it wasn't something we were involved in. But the main responsibility lies with you, with the government. You're the one in front of us when our IRS was destroyed, you're the one with the main responsibility for it. But what I would like to travel here is that if the government makes roundabouts in such a way in our country that it means a massive loss of competence and a huge loss of productivity, a loss of production, which will mean that there is a lot of money that does not end up in the common fund for our welfare, is that not a sign that we have made a roundabout, a relocation, a process that is badly and hastily planned and, as such, has not been done wisely?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142248	I just think it illustrates quite clearly that Enhedslisten does not support a Denmark in a better balance, that Enhedslisten does not give a shit about the expression, Madam President, that one must not say that it does not care about securing jobs outside the capital and outside the country's major cities, and I think that is really, really, really a pity. For what the whole of Denmark in better balance is about is, in fact, precisely ensuring that the state with the state jobs is present throughout the country and thus helps to support growth throughout the country, including private job growth throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142323	Thank you. It's completely inappropriate to use swear words from Parliament's platform. I also apologized, Madam President). Good. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? No, there isn't. Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142338	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF, against 0 abstentions). The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142419	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142443	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142534	Thank you. It is possible for everyone to read the comments about why an overall opposition rejects the proposals that are the consequence of media conciliation and which mean poor and less public service in Denmark. That is not exactly what is needed in our time, but it clearly requires a new government. We have tabled a single amendment on the part of a single opposition, and it is an amendment that states that the rotation that must take place when it comes to board members on the Board of Directors of the Danish Radio should not apply to the elected representatives. In any case, I think that is a very clear proposal, and I would appeal to some of our right-wing parties in particular to consider supporting this proposal. For what is the real reason why the state should interfere in whom employees elect as representatives on a board of directors? The employees' representatives are the employees' representatives, and those the employees want to choose must be allowed to choose. It should not be the case that others say that you must not choose them, nor must you choose them. These are employees' representatives. Who the Minister of Culture appoints and who the parties appoint is another matter. We have influence on that ourselves, but who the employees choose must be the choice of the employees alone. That is why it is a really bad idea to set a limit. I know the counter-argument will be: well, in the last media settlement, there was such a rule that it should be put into effect after the new media settlement came into force. Yeah, that's right, but there was a reason why you didn't put it into effect right away. And it was precisely that there was opposition to it and there was discussion about it, and therefore one would use the 4 years during the media conciliation period to examine whether it was a good idea. And that is why it is a call to the right: let the employees' ability to choose their own representatives prevail and vote for the proposal we have put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142757	Thank you. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142806	It's on behalf of the Minister for Culture, it has to be said. It is true that the amendment tabled by Mr von der Vring has been tabled. Søren Søndergaard mentions that directors and alternates of board members appointed by the permanent employees of DR are exempted from the rule that only immediate re-election can take place once. The government cannot support the proposal. And I actually think I'd just like to congratulate Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard for being so fair and explain himself that there have been little different views from a number of parties. For it is thus the case that when the latest media reconciliation was made, it was a unanimous Parliament • a unanimous Parliament • except for the Alternative, which was probably legally apologized, since it was before the last parliamentary elections that the 2015-2018 media agreement introduced the limitation of two appointment periods, i.e. a total of 8 years, and that the limitation should also apply to the employees. It is fair enough that some have given it as a compromise to some others then, or that some may have changed their point of view, but the government and the Danish People's Party stand alone on the point of view agreed by a unanimous Parliament in the last period, and I think we can stand on that with such a reasonable conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142927	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127142936	The amendments to L 36 will be put to the vote first. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF)? The amendments to L 37 are then voted on. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote will end. In favour of 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143106	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143135	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143155	In the first reading of the draft law, we recommended that we vote no. Since then, we had the hope that we could convince the government that we should do more. Although the draft law is only about the revision clause and a postponement of it, it is of course our opinion that there is no reason to postpone the revision clause because there is adequate knowledge of it. There is simply no virtually any use of it in the municipalities. There is plenty of opportunity to create international primary schools: private schools and free schools, which we support. But we see no reason why state or public funds should be used when it comes to international primary schools. We know that the provision and the law are not being used very much in the municipalities. That is why there is no reason to postpone it. However, the government was a little slow to report back whether further action could be taken in addition to the postponement of the revision clause, and unfortunately the answer was negative. That is why we announced in advance that at second reading we were going to tell you what we were going to vote at third reading. And we will continue to vote against postponing the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143318	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143334	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143353	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT) or on Amendment No 1. 2 outside the report by the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143418	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143433	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143449	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143510	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a majority? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Two and four, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143622	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143640	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143701	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143717	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143734	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143751	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 outside the report by Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF). A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 36 (S, ALT and SF), against 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 9 (EL). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143842	Does anyone wish to speak? Until that is not the case, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143910	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (S), endorsed by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143933	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127143955	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 or on Amendment No 2 by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL). 3 of a minority (EL and SF), elected by a majority (other committees)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127144040	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 29 November 2018. Now you get the opportunity to come in the front row, who doesn't dream about it. So here you go, rapporteurs, step closer. That's right, it's the hard-working students coming up front in the class. I'm just gonna give you a little more time until we get this technique fully in place. Then we're close to being robbed in place. The Secretary of Defense is also allowed to advance as the Minister wishes. I guess we're getting ready with the technique, and we're in place. I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the question, Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, for reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127144318	Thank you. Then we must hope that the marvellous assembly behind the television screens did not leave us, because there was just to be such a change. That's the way it is. After all, we have called this question debate because the government is increasingly creating uncertainty about the Danish defence reserve's survival. Already in 2015, the then Left Government, by the then Secretary of Defense, wanted Mr. Carl Holst a fight with the defence reserve. And back in May 2018, the Secretary of Defense told me he wanted to get rid of the reservation. As the Minister for Defence said to Politiken on 18 May and I quote: My business is at some point to be able to say that we must now vote on our defence reserve, but I just do not want to go into the question of when. The world is so uncertain that it can suddenly be updated. In other words, all of a sudden, the Danes may face a referendum on the abolition of our reservations, if the government considers it appropriate. And fourteen days ago, giving or take, the government decided to ask the Institute of International Studies for an explanation of the defence reservation, thereby placing the recommendation of a dispute with the defence reservation to experts in exactly the same way as the government has commissioned a report to form the basis for a decision on Danish accession to the banking union in autumn 2019. It is a bit strange that the government needs an alibi in the form of a bunch of experts' statements in order to be able to break up with the Danish defence reserve. In the Danish People's Party, regardless of today's article in Berlingske and other things, we have no doubt that this is what the government is planning. One would have thought that the government and the yes parties had gradually had enough of singing slaps from the electorate when it comes to the European Union, but apparently that does not seem to be the case. However, I am certainly looking forward to today's debate on EU defence policy cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127144524	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then we shall proceed to the reply and I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127144541	I would like to start by thanking the authors for focusing on this important area. The government shares the interest in the EU's security and defence policy cooperation, and we also share the desire to debate the Danish defence reserve. We are at a time when we have to note that the threat picture in Denmark's vicinity is deteriorating. The world has become more unpredictable, global power conditions are being shifted, the European security architecture is being challenged and partially dismantled, yes, the world order itself is in a way moving. Russian behaviour is increasingly creating uncertainty on the European continent, terrorism remains a reality that we all too often have to deal with, and Europe's immediate areas are being challenged by instability and irregular migration. At the same time, the United States wants Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. This new reality seems to have taken root. In the government's new foreign and security policy strategy, we have stated that we want to find solutions to these challenges through strengthened security policy cooperation with close allies across the Atlantic, in Europe and with NATO and the European Union at the heart. Denmark cannot solve the challenges alone, it must and must do together with our partners and allies. The development of EU security and defence policy cooperation plays a crucial role here. To some extent, we must be able to ensure peace in Europe and security for European citizens in the face of external threats. The EU's 2016 global strategy stated that the EU must be prepared to avert, respond to and protect against external threats. That ambition divides the government. The EU's ambitions have resulted in a large number of important initiatives, which the Minister for Defence will discuss in more detail. Together, the initiatives must make Europe better able to shoulder greater responsibility for our own security in a more unpredictable and uncertain world. The government considers security and defence policy cooperation in the EU to be an important contribution to European security as well as to transatlantic burden sharing. NATO is and remains the guarantor of collective defence in Europe and is the cornerstone of the defence of Danish security interests. That's not gonna change. Strengthening European cooperation will complement both NATO's efforts and strengthen NATO. If we are to ensure the continued commitment of the United States to Europe and support NATO as a strong guarantor of our security, Denmark as well as the other European allies must invest more in their own security. We must remember that the European Union can do something that NATO is not designed for and that the European Union has other tools to offer. This is true, for example. interventions such as addressing irregular migration and instability. Here, the EU has a wide range of tools. For example, Frontex assists in the legal field. Member States' border controls and help cope with migratory flows. In the field of development, the EU instruments address the root causes of unrest and irregular migration and cooperate with third countries on repatriation. In the area of security and defence policy, the EU's efforts contribute to stabilising countries in the EU's neighbourhood. This is for the benefit of the countries themselves and of our security. This also helps to stem migratory flows. This is done by the European Union, both through civil security and defence policy cooperation, where the European Union can contribute with very specific civil competences, for example. in relation to the police and the judiciary, and here Denmark is a strong contributor, and we can welcome the fact that a new step has just been taken with the launch of the so-called Civilian Compact last week. But when it comes to the military part of the same cooperation, we are on the sidelines. Let me give you an example. The EU's maritime military operation in the Mediterranean is fighting the networks of smugglers in the region. They stop suspected smugglers, and in this way they help to improve maritime safety. Such an operation is clearly in Danish interest, and it is precisely the kind of effort that we would like the European Union to undertake. But, unfortunately, as a result of the reservation, we cannot participate. For the same reason, we cannot participate in the discussions on the operation, which in many ways are important for Denmark. This is a good example of initiatives where the defence reserve limits Danish influence and, in my opinion, damages our ability to defend Danish interests. It is essential that NATO and the EU strengthen cooperation. That is why it is so positive that NATO and the European Union took important new steps in this direction at the NATO summit in June 2018. This is true, for example. a strengthened dialogue on counter-terrorism or a joint response to Russia's hybrid actions such as impact campaigns and aggressive cyber attacks. The EU and NATO are also working together on military mobility interventions. This can ensure that European forces can move quickly through Europe when necessary. It is absolutely crucial that we think out of the box, in terms of how we in Europe can deliver more for common security. This is among other things. In this context, Denmark's participation in the French-led E12 of the European Intervention Initiative should be seen. This is a way to demonstrate that we mean it when we say that we are prepared to assume greater responsibility for Europe's security • and here Denmark can be involved in the cooperation, as it is outside the EU framework and therefore does not fall within the defence reserve. It cannot be concealed that Denmark is being pressured from two sides, on the one hand, the areas covered by the reservation are growing in scope and importance, and, on the other hand, the reservation has also begun to hamper the possibilities for Danish inclusion of interest in areas where we are fully involved. This is true, for example. In relation to the defence fund, which the Secretary of Defense will discuss later. We can therefore see that the level of ambition and complexity of cooperation in the defence policy of the European Union are increasing. At the same time, it is also clear that we do not know all the consequences of the defence reserve. What does that mean, for example? for Denmark's safety? What is the importance of defence reserve for Denmark's overall position in the EU? Has the reservation an effect on Danish industry and research? How important is the defence clause for other parts of the EU's political cooperation? These are questions which we are having difficulty answering right now and which we need to find out. We simply need to understand the development of the EU's security and defence policy cooperation better, just as we especially need to understand what it means for Denmark and especially in the light of the Danish defence reserve. It is precisely for this reason that the government has decided to initiate an external and independent investigation to clarify this issue. It is the Government's ambition to create a good, objective and broad-based debate. It is not a proposal for a reservation vote, but rather a sincere attempt to create a broad-based debate on how best to defend Danish security and defence policy interests. Thank you for the floor, and I have shown the opportunity to pass it on to the Minister for Defence, otherwise the President will certainly have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145346	Thank you. There is now the possibility of a brief comment per year. rapporteur, and I have two on the list. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145356	Thank you. The Foreign Minister attaches himself to the fact that the United States has asked Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. When Emmanuel Macron was told to the French radio channel Europe 1 that one should also defend oneself against China, Russia and the United States, it was taken very badly by the American President. I do not believe that there is any desire on the American side for a European army in competition with NATO. It is, after all, like the whole tableau behind this debate, that we have a French President, we have a German Chancellor who says that we cannot automatically expect us to have outside help any longer, and that is why we need an EU army. What is the Foreign Minister's position on this issue? Can it really be true that we are now moving into a situation in which we distance ourselves from our NATO alliance partner, an alliance partner we have had since 1949 because there are some who believe that we will not get outside help in the event of an attack?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145514	I firmly believe that the cornerstone of the defence of Denmark's freedom will in future also be transatlantic cooperation in cooperation with our close allies, the United States, but of course we also have to listen to what the American President himself sends out by signals, because that cannot be ignored. There is pressure in relation to the 2%, because Denmark does not reach the 2%. The issue of burden sharing is there, it is a fact, and you cannot run away from it. There are areas where we disagree with the Americans, and that is when they withdraw from the Paris agreement or from the nuclear agreement in relation to Iran, but there are also other places where we sign and recognise that the Americans are actually engaged further in defending European security, for example. when the speech falls on the Baltic countries. So there are both pluses and minuses, and we have to deal with that. This is not a single overall picture, and that is why we are asking for an external statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145616	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145618	Thank you. After all, the minister himself said that a great many things are actually happening in the defence sector now in the European Union. I am very concerned that this is going in the direction of more armaments, but my question is really about the fact that not only is there a great deal going on in the field of defence, but that there is also a development going on in the field of foreign policy, which is about having a more common foreign policy in the European Union, and this is also about the fact that more decisions will actually be taken by majority voting. If Denmark abolishes the defence reserve at a time when there is a great deal of development in defence and, at the same time, there are approximations to a common EU foreign policy, how does the Foreign Minister feel about this in relation to our own opportunities to pursue an independent foreign and defence policy in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145711	But that question is not quite simple either, because one thing is to say that you want to pursue an independent foreign and security policy. It is clear that, as a starting point, if everything else were equal, you would want to. However, we have been able to see, most recently, in relation to the conflict we have with Iran, that it is quite essential for us to have close allies when we have such a conflict or when we draw a line in the sand with Saudi Arabia and arms exports. It is also essential that you have some allies around you that you work with, for example. We also welcomed the fact that the Germans seem to be heading in the same direction as we are doing there. So it is not as simple as saying that you have a choice between either one hundred percent to conduct your own foreign policy or that everything has been put down in the European Union. Sometimes it is just a huge advantage to make foreign policy with others, and there are rules at this stage at a very high level, of course, that you do so in the context of consensus decisions, for example. When we need sanctions against Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145810	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall continue with the reply by giving the floor to the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127145821	Let me pick up where the Foreign Minister got off with emphasis on the fact that the development of the European Union in the field of security and defence is really moving. The message is very clear: Europeans take the security situation seriously and try to work more closely together to meet the challenges and threats we face in Europe. Denmark fully supports this. The idea of a more effective defence policy EU makes more sense than it has for many years. It is basically good that the European Union contributes more to Europe's security, and it is certainly not about the establishment of an EU army. We have made it very clear that we do not support the Danish side, and that is a view that a large number of EU countries fully share. But the European Union can do something that NATO cannot and that we need in Europe if we are to be able to respond to the current threats. The EU can help address the challenges posed by terrorism, hacker attacks, disinformation, piracy, refugee flows, etc. In addition, there are specific EU competences in terms of stabilising crisis areas, peacekeeping efforts, building civil society with police and courts, not to mention research and industrial cooperation in defence in the European Union. If we zoom out, the last two years in particular have been marked by significant developments in security and defence policy. Based on the EU's global strategy of June 2016, a number of implementing measures and plans for the development of EU security and defence policy cooperation were presented at the end of 2016 and concrete development objectives were set for EU-NATO cooperation based on the Joint Declaration of the NATO summit in Warsaw in 2016. In addition, in November 2016, the Commission presented its European Defence Action Plan in order to strengthen the coherence and synergies between defence and other Union policies in areas where it creates European added value. The subsequent practicalisation and implementation of a number of new initiatives has testified to an unprecedented high level of ambition among the EU Member States. This also applies to the EU institutions, which are currently devoting considerably more resources to defence-related issues. For the first time, therefore, dedicated funds have been allocated to defence efforts in the Commission's proposal for the next multiannual EU budget framework, and even in several contexts. But, as you know, for a large part of the developments taking place in the European Union in this area, Denmark is unable to participate because of the defence reserve. In general, this means, among other things, that Denmark is in a bad position to influence the direction of the EU's security and defence cooperation. The European Union is at an important stage right now, and one clearly senses that the foundation stone of many years of forward-looking and ambitious cooperation is being laid, without us from Denmark being able to influence how. For example, the Member States of the European Union are currently discussing the conditions under which third countries should be able to participate in the European Union's many new defence initiatives. There are key Danish interests at stake here, not least in the light of brexit and the development of our transatlantic relations. In many cases, however, Denmark cannot influence these discussions. The defence reserve is also felt very concretely. For example, Denmark cannot participate in the enhanced EU defence cooperation PESCO launched in December 2017. PESCO is primarily a cooperation driven by the Member States themselves, not driven by the EU institutions, and it is a question of developing the capabilities that the Member States must have at their disposal if they are to be able to respond to current threats. There are, among other things: talk about cooperation on the development of cyber response teams that can help countries when it burns on, or cooperation on maritime surveillance. The capacities developed under PESCO will be the Member States' own, so they will also be able to benefit NATO to such an extent. It is also part of the picture that PESCO provides an increased incentive for cooperation in an EU framework among the participating Member States, which may have an impact on the incentive to cooperate with Denmark and for Danish inclusion of interests. Nor can we participate in the EU's military operations in Africa, which otherwise contribute to the fight against terrorists and pirates or to the restoration of the law and order needed to stem the flow of refugees and irregular migration. In the Mediterranean, Danish Challenger aircraft thus help the EU's Frontex Border Guard to patrol the Triton operation, but we cannot contribute to the EU's Sophia operation in the Mediterranean, which has destroyed hundreds of human smugglers and contributed to the arrest and extradition of smugglers and has saved thousands of distressed people. We have also had to say no to providing Danish contributions to the EU military training mission in Mali, where we otherwise contribute to the UN's efforts, and where Denmark will be able to offer some very specific competences in relation to our approach to training and construction. Let me stress once again that we in Denmark generally support the fact that the European Union will be more able to contribute to addressing our common security challenges. It is crucial that we from Denmark signal to our European allies that Denmark, despite its defence reserve, is a country that can be counted on in terms of security and defence cooperation in Europe. Denmark is also actively contributing to the development of the European Union's defence dimension in areas not covered by our defence reserve. A large part of the ongoing work focuses, for example, on the defence industry and research. The Danish defence reserve does not include the EU's efforts to research and develop the EU's internal market. Therefore, Denmark can fully participate in initiatives under the Commission's defence fund aimed at creating better conditions for Member States' cooperation in research and development of defence capabilities, and the Danish defence industry can offer the funds that are being put into competition in the fund. Denmark can also participate in most of the efforts undertaken by the European Commission to promote a more flexible and smoother transport of military equipment and personnel across borders within the EU. This should enable the Member States to take more effective and timely action when dealing with external as well as internal crisis situations. In my view, these are good examples of how the European Union can bring real added value to European security. However, there are also examples of the EU currently spending a great deal of effort on strengthening the coherence and synergies between defence and other EU policies, including policy areas not covered by the defence reserve and where Denmark is fully involved. On the one hand, of course, it is positive that in these areas Denmark can help influence development in a direction that is in Denmark's interest, but at the same time it also means that because of the defence reserve we are increasingly faced with challenges that make it difficult for Denmark to deliver, even in areas where we are formally involved and which are important for Denmark and for Denmark's security. Let me highlight just two examples. The European Defence Agency first: Denmark does not participate here because of the defence reserve, but the Agency nevertheless plays a significant role in relation to new EU initiatives related to security and defence, including non-reserved policy areas. The Agency shall contribute, inter alia: to define priorities under the Defence Fund, which Denmark participates in and contributes to the financing of. That is why the government wants a closer association with the Agency, so that we get a better platform for defending the interests of Danish companies. The EU's military stabilisation efforts are another example. As mentioned above, Denmark does not participate because of the defence reservation. However, we see a tendency for the EU's military and civil efforts to be increasingly integrated, which may raise new issues in connection with Danish participation also in the EU's civil security work. There are plenty of good arguments for Denmark to play a more active role in strengthening EU defence cooperation. This would strengthen Denmark's own security. Denmark would be able to contribute with its many experiences of military and civilian efforts, and Denmark would thus be able to help draw the cooperation in the direction we want and which is in our strategic and security interests. In this context, I would also like to emphasise that it is not a question of the development of EU cooperation in the field of security and defence to result in an EU army, or of the European Union replacing NATO. That is not at all where we are and there is complete agreement on this within the European Union circle. It is a question of strengthening the European Union's capacity to take greater care of Europe's own security in full complementarity with NATO. The government is therefore very pleased that the EU and NATO are increasingly cooperating on European security. The government does not plan a referendum on the reservation of defence here and now, but it is quite obvious to us that, as a small open society, we are actually saying no to where it is going, in defence and security policy. The government therefore stands by the fact that we need to talk about the defence reserve. Reality has overtaken it, and there is a need for a thorough and nuanced conversation about what is in Danish interest and how developments in the EU and the world around us affect Denmark. That is why I look forward to the results of the investigation that the government has now initiated, because there are many key questions that we are having difficulty answering right now. For example, how important is it for the Danish defence industry that Denmark does not participate in the defence policy collaborations that guide the defence fund? What does it mean for our reputation as alliance partners in the EU and NATO that Denmark is outside PESCO cooperation? How does the reservation affect Denmark's participation in matters which fall outside the reservation but which are linked to European defence capabilities such as cyber and hybrid? It is my hope that it will not be a debate that is about for or against the European Union and that divides us into yes- and no-sayers. It must be a debate about where the EU is going and where it leaves Denmark, because EU membership is a crucial platform for Denmark in our concern in the world. Denmark will have a stronger voice when we are part of a strong community. Finally, we are a country that has something to offer, not least when it comes to security and defence, which upholds the democratic values of the European Union and complies with the rules. This makes Denmark a good and credible partner. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151202	Thank you. And there are two who get a brief remark each. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151210	I have to say that there is something I do not understand by the Secretary of Defense's speech. The Minister for Defence says that there is complete agreement in the EU that this defence policy cooperation should not result in an EU army. At the same time, we have a French President, Emmanuel Macron, who says and now I quote: we cannot protect Europe unless we have a genuine European army. Quote out. We have a German Chancellor who, as far as I remember on 14 November, says in the European Parliament that it is absolutely necessary to have a European army. And back in May, she said that we could no longer trust the United States to come to our rescue. And we have a Commission which, having listened to Macron and Merkel, says and now I quote what the spokesperson said: we are delighted that both the President of the French Republic and the German Chancellor, with a few days' interval, have publicly supported our idea. Quote out. How can the Minister stand here and say that there is full agreement that it should not develop into a European army with these three statements in mind? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151318	That is because there is a great deal of confusion about what is really meant by a European army. And the rapporteur knows very well that, when you are in southern European countries, you are fluctuating in higher air levels compared to these things. There is no one who imagines any country handing over the command of its armed forces, so that we shouldn't have the case in the Folketing, if we were to do anything it takes our constitution or we should in the name of these things. So I think that is, what to say, a frustration you feel towards the President of the United States and the developments you see there. But there is no reality in it, and every country swears that we are working for a European army. Of course, when you use the word, you can create an uncertain situation. That is also why we feel the need to say quite clearly that this is not a European army. And I think the rapporteur can assure himself of this by talking to all the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151435	The next one to have a question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151439	I have to say that I think it is such a rather strange approach when the signals from both France and Germany and the Commission are that they say an EU army. I think there is a lot of pointing out that this is also the direction in which it is developing. If you end up being a regular army or if it is just a very, very strengthened military cooperation with a strong armament as a result, then I have to say that I am concerned about both. I therefore find it strange that the Minister for Defence will not recognise and discuss this issue openly. I have to say, I think it's very strange. But what I really wanted to ask the Minister for Defence is exactly what is at stake in humanitarian operations. For it is my view that we in Denmark must play a more peacekeeping role in the world than we must take part in such an arms race. And as far as humanitarian action is concerned, as I see it, there is ample opportunity for Denmark to play a role through the UN. We do, for example. Mali, too. How does the Secretary of Defense feel about the future? Is it quite true that we can do so, even if we have the reservation, and that we therefore have the opportunity to play this role through the United Nations, and is there not a risk that increased EU cooperation on the military will simply pull more forces out of the UN, where there is really a great need for resources at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151604	On the first comment, I think we should welcome the fact that Europe is taking on greater responsibilities within NATO as well. We must make a greater contribution to the defence of Europe than we have done so far. That is why we have increased defence spending by 20% in recent defence agreements because we recognise that we have to bear a greater burden in Europe. We can, among other things. know that EU countries are strengthening their military capabilities. On the issue of UN missions, of course, we must also be able to participate in UN missions, but I believe that the reality is that many of these things are mixed military/civil operations. If you look at some of the places in the Sahel region, it will, in most cases, require military protection for these missions. And with all due respect for the United Nations' efforts in this area, it must be said that there is a greater capacity when European countries act together in this regard. We can, among other things. read out the problems that are in Mali with the UN mission, where the incentive to get outside the camp wire is very poor with the soldiers who are. So there are, after all, some problems where it can be said that NATO and there the European Union can do something that others cannot do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151744	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense this time. We shall now proceed to the debate itself. The first one on the platform is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127151758	Thank you. I should also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their answers to the question. I have to say that I think, in particular, that there is one point that needs to be fixed, and that is that the Minister for Defence keeps saying that an EU army is not going to come up. The Minister for Defence also stated this in Politiken on 18 May, and then I just quote: this is not a European army, as we feared in 1992. This is a completely different starting point today, when the countries are volunteering for the tasks and paying for their own efforts. Now, of course, I do not know what kind of a we to which the Minister for Defence refers in Politiken. As far as I remember, it was not a European army that took the Left much back on the question of Maastricht in 1992. Whether or not the Left believes that it is really a question today is the question. For 13 November, the German Chancellor in the European Parliament said that the times when we could count on others without reservation are over. This means that, as Europeans, we must take our own destiny more into our own hands if we want to survive as a community. I just have to say that it may well be that the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not want an EU army or want to talk about an EU army, but it is of no use when the whole debate on the European scene, the European arena, is about precisely an EU army. The French President has said the same thing. He also wants an EU army. The Commission has proposed an EU army. Then it is said that this is not about challenging NATO. But the whole backdrop to the debate is that Chancellor Merkel and President Macron have said that they no longer trust our NATO partners. We cannot count on others to come and help us, it says, and that is why we need an EU army. So it is a challenge of NATO cooperation, no matter how you turn it around or how you turn it. This is also one of the reasons why this ambition for an EU army has been received in the way that it has been received by the US administration. It's not like you're sitting in Washington clapping your hands off this thing. You're wondering. One also wonders why a French President might say that a European army must defend Europe against China, Russia and the United States. Anyway, it's totally absurd. The fact is that we will never be able to match the military capabilities of the United States. It is simply unparalleled. At the same time as we have this debate on an EU army, we are also in a situation where a broad circle of countries in the European Union refuses to use the 2%. of defence, as requested by the NATO Alliance. It simply does not add up. On the one hand, we want to build something new, large, chromed at European level, but on the other hand we will not be willing to pay for what we have already committed ourselves to in an alliance of which we are already part. If the government now wants to settle with the defence reserve, I do believe that the government owes it to the people to be honest about it, so be honest about what the government is doing. In 2015, Mr. Carl Holst, that he wanted the defence reserve to be abolished. The current Minister for Defence has said the same in Politiken, but just does not want to decide when. And it has to be said that we are now in a situation where we just need to have a debate, but the defence reserve is not that way. I do not know how it has happened in this way. We have to look at that, but I have to say that from the point of view of the Danish People's Party there is absolutely no good reason to enter into a debate on abolishing the defence reserve. There are absolutely no good reasons to be in line with Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel. The fact is that we in Denmark benefit greatly from our security policy cooperation with the United States, our transatlantic cooperation, and we should not put that at risk because there are some people dreaming of a European army under the auspices of the European Union. Against this background, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has launched a study on the importance of defence reserve for Denmark. The Danish Parliament stresses that the four exceptions which have formed the framework of Danish EU policy since 1993 must be maintained unchanged, including the defence reserve. The Danish Parliament stresses that NATO is the basis for Denmark's continued security and security and that transatlantic cooperation is the cornerstone of the future of Denmark's defence. The Folketing therefore opposes the development of an EU army and at the same time stresses that Danish soldiers should not be able to join such an army. The European Union cannot and must not develop into a military superpower in competition with the United States or others. Parliament therefore basically warns against the militarisation of the EU and calls for all forces to be thrown into strengthening cooperation in the NATO alliance. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152318	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152326	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has been busy finding quotes from the great quotation book. Has he ignored the fact that none of them are expressing their views on this which imagines that this is going to happen outside NATO? All the discussion that has been there presupposes that we are still in a NATO framework. Has the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thought that when the term 'European army' is used, it is not a question of soldiers with yellow stars on their socks, because then it is the same as NATO, namely that you have national military forces, which can then be put into different contexts, can be put into a UN context, can be put into a NATO context, can be put into a context of the coalition of the willing and perhaps also into an EU context? It's in this context that we're talking about these things. Maybe it could bring the hysteria down a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152439	Well, I've taken note of that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has become a supporter of a dispute with the defence reserve. I have noted that, I have read the article, and although I am sorry that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen now denies the fatherhood of what went back to 1993, so I have noted it. But I must also say to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that the problem here is precisely that it is not true what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says about NATO. Why is it that so much is now being said about an EU army? Yes, Mrs Merkel, the German Chancellor, has said so over and over again: it is because someone on the other side of the Atlantic can no longer be automatically trusted to come to our aid. And there's just what I'm saying: all historical experience on this continent has shown that every time the United States gets sidelined or gets out of Europe's security situation, things go wrong. It went wrong after World War I, after World War II, it went wrong in Bosnia, and it will go wrong again if it is the case that the United States is sidelined.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152548	I mean, if it is, I don't mind having a paternity test done on these things... but it's not necessary, because I'm happy to accept that responsibility. What is just the whole situation is that the conditions have changed since 1992, when we did not know what this was at all. I fully agree and do not want to help build some European force to strengthen French great-power ambitions in Africa, for example. I don't see any reason for that at all. But that is not what we are talking about here at all. And that's typical of Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that he's just talking completely around. I asked him whether he has thought that this is about getting a military capability in Denmark, you can put into different contexts, and there is another context in which you can put it into. Instead, he's talking about the United States, and the United States shouldn't be sidelined. No one imagines breaking with the United States, even though the new President of the United States is obvious enough. No, I don't really think we agree here, but most of us here in the Danish Parliament, except for Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, in fact, agrees that the current US president is a bit unbalanced he is not quite able to count on. That's why it's very natural to start discussing these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152711	I will refrain from diagnosing the President of the United States. I do not think anyone in this Chamber is capable of that. But I would like to say to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that it may well be that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has some ambition that Denmark should be more active in third world countries for peacekeeping or peacemaking operations or whatever. I don't have the same enthusiasm, far from it. Well, there's enough war for everyone. We do not need to take part in any more international bodies where we can send troops, either in Mali or in the Central African Republic, or where on earth that can now be discussed. We've had plenty of time in this kind of thing... I don't think we should be more involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152753	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Erik Christensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127152810	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for calling this debate. After all, we can already sense that there is probably some kind of disagreement in the Folketing on this issue. But let me give you a brief account of the position of the Social Democratic Party. First of all, with regard to the defence reserve, we do not want to abolish the defence reserve during the next parliamentary term, nor do we want to support a referendum on this during the same period. It can be said that our fundamental position on the reservation is well known and not changed, but at the same time we also take the Danes' signal that we must safeguard our reservations quite seriously. The Danes have now, twice every 15 years, said no to abolish the reservations, and I think that is something I should actually encourage for reflection by those of us who are sitting in here. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to start discussing the votes on the remaining reservations during the next parliamentary term. In addition, it is also important for us to say that we do not see that there is a burning platform at this stage, and we believe that this is necessary if we are to go out and ask the Danes for the abolition of a reservation. We don't think this burning platform is there right now. In fact, here and now, we believe that there are far greater challenges in the European Union than our reservations. Let me just mention the fight against tax fraud, better protection of employees' rights and the protection of borders. So it can be said that the abolition of reservations is not at the top of our dosmer list and, contrary to what the two ministers say, we believe that we can, in fact, continue our commitment to Europe with reservations. Having said that, of course, it is also clear that we in the Socialist Group see an advantage in that we are under the auspices of EU cooperation in this area, and we would also like to be involved in as much as our reservations at all allow. However, the starting point for participation in this cooperation is our defence reserve. Let me make it clear with seven inches' nails that for social democracy NATO is and remains the foundation stone of Danish defence and security policy, but we do not want to hide the fact that we are looking forward to the external account of the development of military cooperation in the European Union, as announced by the government in its foreign and security policy statement, and we would of course like to debate it when it comes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153045	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153047	It is, of course, a good thing that the Social Democrats will not vote on the defence reserve, but I am simply in doubt as to what the Social Democrats' motivation for taking that stand is. So, on May 7th, there was a fine article in Altinget with the title "S dare not put defence reserve to the vote." The question is this: is the reason why the Social Democratic Party will not send the defence reserve to the vote, A) that you really like the defence reserve and think it is a good thing for Denmark, or B) that you do not dare because you think the Danes will vote no? There's a huge difference there. Because if it is A, the Social Democrats have in fact, deep down, still taken away the view that the defence reserve has to go away at some point. But if it's B, it's something else that's at stake. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to explain whether it is because you do not dare, or it is because you have become a supporter of the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153152	I would say that it is now very, very rare for us in the parties to be allowed to make the headlines. I am not going to comment on that heading, but just say that it is not a question of us not having the courage. In fact, it is a question of respecting the fact that the citizens have now said to the Folketing several times: we want to maintain our reservations. That is also what we take note of, and that is what we respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153210	This is still a rather strange way of answering, because normally a political party has some opinions. It is not normal to say that my opinion is that of the people. They say: I have an attitude. Then the people may mean something, but you have an attitude. I would just like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur again: does the Social Democrat Party in principle want a showdown of defence? Does the Social Democrats want it to be abolished in principle, but have simply taken the view that because the voters seem to want something else, the Social Democrats want the same thing as the voters want right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153247	I think it's a special way, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth chooses to argue on. We respect the fact that we have asked the citizens and the citizens have given a clear signal to the Folketing. However, it is a position to respect the voice of citizens. I would like to say that I usually listen with interest to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's party colleague, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. He cannot, of course, get enough referendums, but it must be an expression of respect for what comes out of a referendum. That is, in fact, our position. That is what we respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153324	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153326	Now I just got a little curious. Is it also true, what is to be said, that the Social Democratic Party says: well, it has been decided, so we are not interested in abolishing the reservation of law either?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153341-2	We respect the votes that have taken place. But it is, as I said, in the next parliamentary term. In other words, we cannot say forever whether it is the case that the reservation of law or the reservation of defence will have to be put to the vote at some point. We have made it clear how we deal with the defence reserve and, in relation to the legal reservation, I think it would be more appropriate to ask our legal rapporteur about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153406	There are no more brief comments. So thank you to the rapporteur. We'll move on, and the next one's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127153424	As true as that's said. Thank you for the question, which makes it clear that we in the Left would very much like to get rid of the defence reserve. We believe that this will be the best thing for Denmark, we believe it will be the best thing for Europe, and we believe that this will be the best thing for NATO. On the other hand, we do not have any plans for a referendum here and now. What we have learned from previous debates is that believing that a referendum can be held and then having a debate that takes a relatively short time and then counting on a yes is not certain. That is why it takes a long time, a long time to discuss the pros and cons of the reservations we have. However, our basic position is not a secret. It has been prepared by the Prime Minister as recently as our national meeting, and only this morning I was able to read an excellent chronicle in Berlingske by our defence minister, who told us, as I also believe, that the Danish defence reserve has become more and more a clue to us, whose weight weighs on us in relation to the rest of the European countries, because defence policy is rightly at the top of the European Union's agenda in these years, and countries such as Germany and France have just expressed their desire to strengthen European defence cooperation. It is a cooperation which we in Denmark will far along the way be left out of because of our defence reserve. Just take something like the EU's missions in Mali, the work to stabilise the Sahel region in Africa, from which a large proportion of the migrants who are going to Europe these years come. The European Union is present in the region to prevent Mali from simply collapsing and could become a hotbed of terror or a transit route for the people who are going towards Europe. And one should think that in particular the latter scenario had the questioners from DF's interest. Now it is so fortunate that NATO also has a mission in the area that we can therefore be part of now that we cannot be part of the European Union's own mission. Don't get me wrong, NATO must, of course, continue to be the foundation of our security, but we are dealing with a worsening threat picture both inside and outside Europe, and this development certainly puts Denmark and our relationship under greater pressure. This is not the first time this has happened. A recent survey from the Think Tank of Europe showed that the defence reserve has been activated 141 times since its introduction in 1993. It has hit the anti-piracy effort in Somalia, where Denmark was in the beginning, but then we had to withdraw when it became an EU operation. This was also the case in the Balkans, which started with a NATO mandate, but then became an EU mission in which Denmark also had to withdraw. There have therefore been situations where Denmark has withdrawn. If there is the North Star of NATO, we can be in it, but if there are the 12 stars on the European Union, we cannot, even if what we do is accurate and exactly the same. At the same time, and we have to recognise this, there is a President of the United States who is questioning Article 5, that is, the musketeen nest in NATO, that an attack on one is an attack on everyone. There has been a twitting and other talk that countries that do not meet the 2-percent target should not necessarily expect the United States to come to the rescue. So bad isn't any of us think it's gonna work out, but it's something you have to take seriously. Moreover, it is also signals that come from the United States itself, namely that it wants the European Union to take on a greater role in coping with security in its own neighbourhood. But the situation right now is that we are awaiting an external analysis of the exact consequences of the reservation. This is what the government has asked the DIIS to produce and when it is available, we know more precisely where we stand and what the reservation has to do with us. And then we can take a further debate on the concrete significance of the defence reserve on an even more enlightened basis than what we have today. It is no secret that we would, of course, like to sit at the negotiating table and influence European defence policy cooperation. It's not just for us. We also believe that we can contribute. We do not believe that there is any reason to have such a national inferiority complex. We believe, in fact, that we have something to offer from the Danish side. However, as I said, we do not believe that the time has come for a referendum right now. On the other hand, we want a debate and we welcome it, and we have it here today too. Then I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, and here it comes: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that in recent years the European Union has significantly strengthened its cooperation on security and defence. In this context, it is noted that some of the developments are also taking place in EU policy areas not covered by the defence reserve. The Folketing shares the Government's view that the more unpredictable security situation in and around Europe requires a strong European commitment and a continued strengthening of security and defence cooperation in Europe. But NATO, at the same time, remains the cornerstone of Danish security policy. The Danish Parliament expresses its support for the need to take on an ongoing and informed basis the debate on developments in the European Union in the field of security and defence policy and its importance for Denmark. The Danish Parliament urges the government to closely follow developments, participate actively in discussions and ensure Danish interests in the further development of EU security and defence policy cooperation to the extent that the defence reservation makes it possible. • V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154032	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154042	141 times the defence reserve has been activated. That's so good. That shows that the defence reserve makes a difference. That shows, of course, that there is a very good reason why we have the defence reserve. Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen to remind us. It seems to me that the Left would very much like to go out and fight. So, the Left would very much like to go out into the big world and fight with some people, and if there is one international organization under whose auspices we cannot get out and fight, then it is very unfortunate. I don't understand. I just don't understand the desire to go out and fight. Then I'll listen to you. Jan E. Jørgensen actually does the same thing that Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron have done, namely question whether the United States will come if it is the case that Denmark is attacked. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that the United States is coming, or does Mr. Jørgensen think he's coming? Jan E. Jørgensen, that the United States won't come if we get attacked?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154149-2	Now, I am beginning to understand what is really DF's mission here, because the defence reservation is so evidently a reservation for a defence, that is, a reservation for participating in international missions, and in the Danish People's Party it is thought that it is good that Danish forces do not help to fight pirates in Somalia, do not help to establish a stable situation in Mali, and that we do not get oppressed populations to help fight despots who slaughter them. We look at that so differently. We think it is a good thing that Denmark is actively participating in the fact that we also participate with Danish forces in order to maintain peace and security around the world, because international stability, international peace and security are also something that gives Europe peace and security, which we have had for a historically long time, among other things. Because of cooperation such as the EU and NATO and the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154253	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is absolutely right that the Danish People's Party has no ambition to hunt around the world and spread the Western world order. We have no ambition to do so. The George W. Bush doctrine that drove in the '00s was really a mistake. At least that didn't work out. And the experience of the Arab Spring also shows that one should not expect democracy to be achieved if only somebody rebels against a despot. What I just have to ask, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, on the other hand, is: Jan E. Jørgensen in fact that this new recommendation from DIIS should be different from the recommendation that the Defence Commission also made to abolish the defence reservation? Why is there a need for another explanation when we already have all these experts who say: do you have to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154348	Well, DIIS is an independent research institution, which makes real sense to ask for advice. Anyway, you can't quit the world. The world doesn't disappear just because we think it's troublesome and difficult. For example, there are Danish ships sailing past Somalia and being attacked by pirates, and one can of course just say: Well then we have to shut down the Danish merchant fleet, because it is simply too troublesome and too difficult for them to sail around places where there is war and strife. But it is a fact that such is the world. And then we think it is very sensible to protect Danish ships and protect Danish sailors. And yes, it is done by military force, but it is so evidently the military power that the Danish People's Party is not willing to use, and frankly I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154434	The next question is Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154437	I would like to ask a little more about the humanitarian missions. The example of Mali has very often been highlighted, and I have to say that it is not a NATO mission, it is a UN mission that is in Mali. I have been down to see it too, and I think it is absolutely crucial, it can be said that we are actually faced with a situation in Mali where there is so much lack of resources for the UN operation. We have had a Danish general down there who has called for more vehicles to be made, that there should be an increased contribution from Denmark, and that is what the Left would like us to contribute to, because then there is plenty of opportunity for it. What the European Union is doing in Mali is very much driven by the French, who have interests in their former colonies down there, and it is the Foreign Legion that applies both in Mali and in the countries around, and so these are some operations that are associated with far greater problems of human rights violations, for example, how prisoners are handled and all sorts of other things. I know what I would prefer: I would prefer that we take part in the broad UN mission down there, I would prefer that we are not part of it, it can be said that France is caring for its own interests in the area of the European Union's mission. However, I would like to hear a perfectly clear answer from the Left about this: why is it better for Denmark to go in and support the European Union here instead of contributing to the absolutely necessary UN mission?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154559	If I have said NATO instead of the United Nations, it is regrettable. The point is that when there is a military operation under the auspices of the United Nations or under the auspices of NATO, Danish forces can participate, but when it becomes an operation under the auspices of the European Union, we cannot participate, even if what you do is exactly the same. Frankly, we think that's a little molboyish. So that's basically just what I was trying to illustrate. We have historically participated in many UN missions and continue to do so very much, and I myself have recently been to New York in connection with the UN General Assembly, where we were out talking to the Danish UN officers, and we are doing a good job. We would, of course, like to participate in UN missions in the future too, but we just find it rather strange that as soon as it becomes an EU mission, Danish forces must be taken home, even though the work you do is just as good and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154701	Mali is being dragged forward as an example many times, and I would like to say that, in terms of content, I actually think that the UN mission is significantly better than what I see from the European Union, so I would also like to think that it made sense that Denmark is present, and my concern is quite fundamental, that we see how UN operations across the board are extremely affected by the fact that there are not enough trained soldiers, that there is not enough equipment, and that is because there is not enough participation from the European countries and the rest of the West, and because it is largely left to African and Asian countries to make those contributions. I am really afraid that if you go deeper into this military cooperation in the European Union, there will be another shift there, and I think that the United Nations is quite crucial to solving many of these international problems. I would like to hear an assessment of whether this is not exactly what might happen, i.e. that even more of the necessary resources are being taken out of the UN operations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154759	I do not know that, but I know that the United Nations has some challenges, because when a soldier is sent out with a blue helmet, the payment you receive from the United Nations is the same, whether it is a well-educated, highly-paid Danish soldier sent out or whether it is a soldier from Bangladesh or an African country who has a lower education which is not nearly as effective as the Danish soldiers and where the cost level is quite different. So there are some particular challenges facing the UN. What we contribute more is the training of the soldiers sent out, because that is where we can contribute in a more appropriate way under the auspices of the United Nations, and that may well be an argument for some EU missions to complement the efforts of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154845	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. Jørgensen You're welcome). And the next one on the platform is Mrs Eva Flyvholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127154903	Thank you very much and thank you for calling. As may have already emerged from some of the questions, I think it is actually a really bad idea to abolish the Danish defence reserve. I am really glad that we are doing so right now, precisely because, as we can see, there is a great deal going on with the development of defence and foreign policy in the European Union that worries me. I would say that I almost think we have never had more need of the defence reserve than we have now, because we have just seen how the leaders of the large countries are, in other words, both Macron and Merkel, and it is also coming from the Commission that is out and talking hot for both getting an EU army and putting full pressure on the production of arms in the European arms industry. I must admit that I simply think that is a completely wrong direction to take, and I wonder a little bit about it, one can say that in all the debates we have had so far and now I have also seen it in print around the press so strongly that there is nothing to worry about here. So, I think that when the Heads of State of Germany and France are out and send out a signal as to what direction they would like to see it going in the European Union, there is enough reason to listen to it. At any rate, I have no doubt for a moment that this is a movement towards much more military in the European Union, and I think that is a problematic path to take. We can also look at how billions of dollars are being invested in such a European defence fund, and this is precisely about strengthening European arms production, in Germany and France in particular. The unfortunate thing in this discussion, I think, is that, as we see it, many of the EU leaders simply go in and acknowledge the logic of constantly arming up, and unfortunately we have also seen the same tendency in Denmark, and recognise the logic of having to equip ourselves out of the problems. And the only thing that then happens instead is that you say 'and that's what Macron has been out saying 'you just have to make sure that this armament leads to', you can say that the money must end up in European companies and not in Americans. I have to say that I would like to see a policy of disarmament and conflict prevention as a real alternative to the policy of Trump instead of European and Nordic and Danish. If that were the direction we were going in, I would certainly be much more interested in taking this debate. For me, it is absolutely essential that we do not commit ourselves to cooperation which, what is to be said, has armaments as a declared purpose. So, both the Treaty of Lisbon and the latest PESCO cooperation here show that it is about increasing military capacity and that it is about increasing arms production in the European Union. I just have to say that I simply do not believe that this is the path that will take us either to put us either better at the current level of conflict that we see in Europe or to put ourselves better at solving many of the problems we see in the world. To this I would say that the United Nations is constantly calling for precise contributions from European countries to the missions around it. If you look at how the contributions from Denmark and other European countries to UN missions have just gone downhill over the past many years, it is thought-provoking, I think, that NATO is much more oriented towards. And if there is now much greater opportunity to engage in military cooperation in the EU, then an EU army, etc. I find this very, very problematic, because it is a question of the fact that exactly the competences that we could offer in the United Nations are lacking. So basically I would like to say that Denmark has been known in the past for peacekeeping efforts, and that is where I would like to go again. And that is not what I think we are seeing at stake in the European Union now, although I can really recognise the concern about what kind of signals you are seeing from Trump and the United States. It certainly makes sense to be skeptical about it. However, I believe that cooperation with our neighbouring countries must be based on a foreign policy and a defence policy that we believe will create security and stability, and that is simply not what I see is the development of the European Union now. And I find it difficult to see how it will in any way contribute positively if the European Union also throws itself into an arms race, where it is all about increasing military production in the European Union in order to compete with the United States. So I am very pleased with the reservation and hope, in a sense, that it is something that we can agree to stick to in here. I have a proposal for adoption, I will read out here at the end, and it's just from us in the Enhedslisten, and it's relatively short: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has launched a study on the importance of defence reserve for Denmark. The Danish Parliament stresses that the defence reserve and the other exceptions must be maintained unchanged. Parliament warns against the development of an EU army and increased militarisation of the EU and instead stresses the need for disarmament and strengthened focus on peace and conflict resolution. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155447	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155456	I find it interesting that Enhedslisten is now pleased with the reservation. I still remember that when it was introduced in 1993, it could not be said that the Enhedslisten was particularly fond of it, to say the least, to say the least. However, what I do not fully understand is that the great party of the left does not think it is a good idea for us to have a foreign and security policy that is more independent of the United States than is currently the case. If we are to have more autonomy in relation to the United States, it presupposes that there are countries other than Denmark that do so. Denmark is not supposed to just go out, we can, but it doesn't move anything. On the other hand, if Europe as a whole were to become a bloc which was to play a greater role in security and foreign policy in the world, it would move something forward. I do not understand why the Enhedslisten cannot see that there is a left-wing perspective in it; instead, the thinking that is at the moment in which it is the United States that is, as it were, totally dominant in terms of how we think and what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155620	Thank you for the question. In other words, I very, very much want us to be independent of the United States' foreign policy. I believe, as I know, that the SF also makes it deeply, deeply unhappy that Denmark has repeatedly followed the United States into war, as we have seen both in Iraq and Afghanistan and so on. So I think that there is such a need for an independent foreign policy. I think it can only be very dangerous if we buy the logic that then we have to go in and support the armaments that we are currently seeing in the European Union, that then we have to stick to military cooperation, which is now pointing a lot towards an EU army that right now has the foundation that the European arms industries must be strengthened, because that is exactly the same logic that I think has gone wrong in the United States, namely that there is a very one-sided focus on armaments. If we could have European cooperation, which was about how we were disarming in Europe, if we could have European cooperation that was about peace and conflict resolution, then I would think it was super-good, Holger, and I would very much like to fight for that with you, but that is just not the reality now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155727	Well, I don't know. That is one of the issues to be discussed: what is the content of a European security policy? What I just think is a premise for this discussion is that if you are to have a credible foreign policy, you also have to have a military dimension in order for it to be credible. This isn't about arming. There are far too many weapons at the moment in Europe that, in my opinion, are being spent far too much on defence in Europe, also in relation to what is being done in Russia. However, it is a question of perhaps redisposing the way in which we spend those costs. It is, after all, a question of how we in Europe might use some of those resources independently of the United States. It's also part of this discussion. So I think it's gonna be too defaitistic when Enhedslisten says this just means armament. After all, there has not been a substantive line on what Macron has come up with, but there is no substance and no flesh and blood at all on it yet. That is why I think it would be important if the Enhedslisten and the left too were to enter into that discussion: what role should Europe have, what security policy should Europe have, and how can it be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155852	Well, we're in that argument. I think it is very important that we draw Europe in a more peaceful direction, in other words, that we take part in that discussion every day, including on the part of the Enhedslisten. I think that is very, very central. I just have to say that my concern is that I do not think that the Danish defence reserve should be abolished in a situation where what we are seeing right now in relation to European defence policy is that it is precisely going towards more armaments. If we look at what Macron has said, he says: well, Europe must increase military spending, but the money must go to European companies and not to American companies. That is exactly the starting point, and I just do not think it can be a left-wing position, that we should just make sure that the money goes to European arms industries rather than to American ones. Indeed, I would like to discuss disarmament precisely, which is why I do not want to commit myself to a policy of armament. That is the whole dilemma here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155943	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127155946	Thank you. I forgot to read out the proposal for adoption. I also forgot to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they support the Left in this matter. And then I had simply forgotten what Enhedslisten really thinks about NATO. So, does the Enhedslisten not continue to believe that Denmark should be withdrawn from NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160002-2	Yes, we do. I took note of the fact that the Minister for Defence has written a chronicle in Berlingske today, where he actually calls NATO to be the greatest peacemaking project ever. I have to say that this version of NATO cannot be fully recognized by the Enhedslisten. On the contrary, I believe that we have followed NATO into far too many wars of aggression over the past 15 years. So we are very critical of NATO in the Enhedslisten. That does not mean, of course, that we do not want to cooperate with our neighbouring countries. I think you can do that in many other ways. We want, for example. I would also like to see increased Nordic cooperation in the field of defence. But yes, it is quite true that we do not want to continue to participate in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160044	There is nothing else from the Left, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, who holds the chair as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160101	Thank you for that, President. Military analysts are concerned with what can be done, and political analysts are concerned with what is likely, and both of these issues need to be brought into play in the way the world has developed. We have a threat picture in Denmark and in the rest of Europe, which makes it necessary to look at our defence reserve. It is therefore both a discussion about what can be done and what is likely. At the same time, it can be said that there are so many countries around us in Europe that have changed or changed signals that we will not bypass security policy discussions far into the future. It is certain that Europe will have a different security policy in ten years' time than it is today. It will have some kind of consequences. When I say that, it is because even from our American allies, and it has been discussed several times, the whole of multilateral cooperation, which we have relied on in Denmark and in Europe since the Second World War, has been called into question and has been hit by an identity crisis and perhaps even a break-up. This also means, of course, that somehow we have to face up to it, it has not yet been established, and that is what DIIS has to say about strengthening defence cooperation in the European Union. This does not mean that NATO is not still the most important basis for our security when the Liberal Alliance sees the world, because we believe it is, and so it should be in the future. Stronger defence cooperation in the European Union will always be a complement, it will be complementary to NATO, which is the most important, and a form of additional security or opportunity. But we also think it is a good idea to clarify the consequences of being outside defence cooperation, which is why, of course, we welcome the work that the government has set in motion, and of course we think that we should wait before we have a proper debate on the subject. That is why we also support the proposal for adoption which has been tried to read out and which has been read out, and I am now finishing the group work by saying that it is the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative, the Radical Left and the SF that are behind this proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160405	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160409	Yes, and the question is in all its simplicity: when did the Liberal Alliance change its view on this issue? Because in my preparation for this, I messed with what the Liberal Alliance has actually said about the defence reserve. When Mr. Carl Holst, then Secretary of Defense, tried to launch a dispute with the reservation in August 2015, said Mr. Leif Mikkelsen is on behalf of the Liberal Alliance for Information, and the article says: "Not all parties to the Folketing are enthusiastic about a forthcoming referendum on the defence reserve. Liberal Alliance rapporteur Leif Mikkelsen believes that Denmark does not need more EU. On the contrary. Oh, and then Mr. Knox... Leif Mikkelsen quoted as saying: "Our defence cooperation is under NATO auspices, and that is quite fine. The EU is far too foot-timing, so we saw it in relation to Ukraine, he says. So in August 2015, the Liberal Alliance would not have a fight with the defence reserve, as I read it. But does the Liberal Alliance want it now, or how is it to be understood, and what has changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160524	Well, we changed our opinion the year after in August 2016 in connection with our summer group meeting, where we had a thorough review of our work programme. At the same summer group meeting, we also decided to insist that the top tax should be abolished, and the fact that we had revised our work programme drowned so little in the other news, but I am glad that I can rectify this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160549	Yes, you start to think about yourself whether the Liberal Alliance was really getting ready to become a government party at that summer meeting. It's probably something the historians want to write about. However, I think it is a pity that the Liberal Alliance has abandoned its criticism or scepticism towards the European Union in this area too. Well, sir. Henrik Dahl perhaps say a little, just a little, about where the Liberal Alliance is still away is EU skeptical? Because I just think that every time we have this debate about the European Union, there is more and more pointing to the fact that the one who has been parked quite a bit on the sidelines gradually.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160635	Well, we believe that the European Union must be judged on its achievements and that it must of course also be judged in the context in which it operates, and the context of the European Union has changed incredibly, because large, important countries around us are changing, and then we in the Liberal Alliance are taking a position on that basis. There is nothing wrong with changing your mind if the facts change. That is what John Maynard Keynes said when he was accused that he had changed his mind; he said: Well the facts have changed and then I change my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160708	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127160720	I am very pleased to be able to take part in the debate; I have just arrived in place of our usual rapporteur on this subject, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. That is why it is incredibly gratifying that we agree on this issue so much that it is not so difficult for me to go in and fill in. I have been told that there has been a good debate in an area in which I personally enjoyed discussing precisely the defence reserve when I was the peace rapporteur in the alternative. There was a time when I might have been so strongly in favour of us being in the alternative that we should have made up this reservation that I almost got to talk about me. Fortunately, however, we in the party have agreed that we think we should have done something about this. We would like to look at the defence reserve and we would like to look at all the reservations we have regarding European strong cooperation. This must be done with due care and it must be in a way that makes sense, but we do believe that it does, in particular, with this reservation. For many years we have been dependent on our cooperation with NATO and with the United States, we must continue to be, but there are also a great many criticisms where, in the alternative too, we often make criticisms of cooperation where we have been too active in our foreign policy for many years now, we have been involved in too many wars where we, as a new party in this House, have questioned the alternative. That is why we see this as an opportunity for us to actually be able to form part of an alliance that makes us less tense to the wagon called both NATO and the US President-in-Office at any time. And it will really suit us very well, we think it could be a balanced approach to our foreign policy. Denmark is a small state, which is why it is absolutely crucial that we have some good partners. We think we have close cultural communities with the European partners, with which we must then develop an approach to conflicts around the world together. How far we get and what the DIIS study is going to point out, we have to see, but as a starting point we are very much in favour of the alternative. Then there has been talk of, I think, it was Macron and Merkel who used the term army, i.e. an EU army. It can be interpreted as, and there is something about the translation, in relation to what the words mean in the different languages. It also seems to me that NATO cooperation is also an army, and the UN can sometimes be regarded as an army, so to me it is not really so crucial whether you call it one or the other. It is a defence cooperation, and it is an alliance cooperation to create secure conditions for Denmark in an international world where we need partners. Therefore, we think it is a sensible move to delve deeper into this, so thank you for the question to the Danish People's Party. We are very positive about what is important to us, that we continue to prioritise peace mediation, conflict mediation, proactive action and that we are a strong humanitarian nation. Not long ago we called Denmark a potential humanitarian power. We still think that way, even if it sounds extreme. But it is quite certain that Denmark will not be the only thing that we must be involved in some international cooperation and preferably European in order to be able to contribute to being a major humanitarian power.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161015	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161020	Thank you. After all, we are very much in agreement on a lot of defence policy in general and on what to say, the focus is on having a more peace-oriented policy. However, I must also say that I am a little surprised that the alternative here, like the developments taking place in the European Union, sees as a move towards more peace. For frankly, I do not think there is any coverage at all for that. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about Macron, for example. That is what is on the table right now. Is that the policy that the alternative wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161123	Sometimes it's the best possible solution you have to go for. I am not so well on the subject now, but a year ago, when I was also a peace rapporteur, I argued on the basis of the facts, and I will do so again in relation to this: NATO cooperation at the moment. is indispensable to us. Yes, I would find it difficult to argue that we should replace NATO with something else, and I simply would not be able to defend what an alternative we would come up with, and that is why we have pointed out that we need to be a strong partner in NATO cooperation. We still need a two-thirds majority from Parliament to go to war, and that is very important for us, but it is also very important for us to say that we can of course influence NATO cooperation. That is why we must also influence this cooperation in possible EU cooperation, that is to say, what are we giving x per cent in NATO cooperation? Could it be for peacekeeping operations to a greater extent than now? Could it be that we participated more in knowledge-based technology promotion, which could also be used in security policy? In the past, I have promised the current defence ministers that we would like to work on this, that is to say, the dialogue we have with NATO and what is being offered. In Tallinn, at one point, I was over visiting an excellent cyberwarrene center and cybersecurity center. Could it be Denmark which took such initiatives so that it was not direct warfare in which we participated, with the means? So very briefly: yes, we can certainly say very badly about future EU defence cooperation, but we think that there are more good measures than not good. And no, it's not war materials we want to support. We must then try to work in a different direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161248	I do not think there is anyone here who likes to advocate that military operations should not be approved in the Folketing. That's not what's on the table. But basically this is about: does the rapporteur think that cooperation in the European Union is heading in the right direction towards more peace when we talk about the fact that all the European countries are almost above a comprehension? That is the logic that has been adopted when billions are pumped into the arms industry and, at the same time, increasing military coordination on the basis that the countries have a precise obligation to continue to arm themselves, as it does, among other things. is in the Treaty of Lisbon. I mean, for me, it's just a question of: does the alternative think it's the right direction to go in? For I agree that we need to work together internationally, but surely we also have to say that if we abolish the defence reserve, which is precisely our opportunity to go a more peaceful way, as I see it, then there is no reason why we should commit ourselves to a policy that, as we see developments right now in the European Union, is moving in a very militarised direction. So, frankly, can the rapporteur just explain how we see the European Union moving in a more peaceful direction? Because I find that very difficult to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161401	Whether we are going in a more peaceful direction at the moment than we did three years ago in the European Union, I shall not be able to decide. Then I need to know the cash flows better than what we invest in. However, I would like to say to you whether we think that the European Union is going in a more peaceful direction in terms of investment and what we are working together to buy war materials, that this is a discussion that I think is a little arbitrary, in terms of whether we should prioritise and find out what that cooperation can do rather than just leave it alone. For the argument that we have had to join NATO and have had to support US operations so far has been that we have no European alternative. The military and the Danish soldiers have said that it is fine, the alternative, or who makes a proposal for something else, but you do not have an alternative right now. That is where I think we need to work together to find a European alternative, and then we have to do it as well as possible. I do not think this is contrary to wanting to create more peace in the world. I believe that our European partners, those with whom we share many cultural views, will be very good to stand close to, and I think we will have a stronger voice if we are just full of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161457	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161501	Of course, this is an ungrateful task for Mr. René Gade so to be thrown into this debate because Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has to leave, and in normal circumstances I might not have asked Mr Nordqvist either. René Gade about something. But now, sir... After all, René Gade's expertise in the field of defence, and that is why I think it is a good thing, sir. René Gade can stand up for what the alternative means and says, or at least for it, sir. René Gade himself has said. Sir. René Gade says he believes that Denmark and our foreign policy have been too active. In a sense, I can see that to a certain extent that Mr. René Gade can have a point in it. I have so much, very difficulty in seeing how a Danish abolition of the defence reserve could lead to a less active foreign policy. We heard Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned that the defence reserve had been activated 141 times. This means that in 141 cases Denmark has failed to take action within the EU. Some of those things are certainly things that fall within the scope of activism. How are these two things connected? Well, how can Mr. René Gade to join the EU's defence cooperation in expressing a less active foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161615	It is basically a pity that the word activism has been destroyed in the sense that it is something bad. When we say that we would like to see a less active foreign policy on, among other things. the military area, it is because we have seen that we have participated on several occasions in operations by Denmark, where we may not really think there was a mandate for it based on the information we have received since then, or on the basis of which they were carried out. We weren't in the Folketing when many of them were decided, so it's a little easy to look back, but we can at least say that while in the Alternative we have been in the Folketing, there have been several times when we have been critical of the efforts that have been decided that we should participate in, and there I have experienced personally and we also think that we have been weak. For what were our alternatives? Could we do other things? We have the United Nations, we can point out, but there are also some leg locks under the auspices of the United Nations, which means that we cannot really carry out what might have been necessary from a Danish perspective to bring about more peace, to get out and help where it was needed. So I cannot say that we are not going to do any more actions and that we are not going to become more active, and that is not the objective either. We just need to be active on the right fronts, and there I think there is a great chance that EU cooperation will be even more consistent with what we in the alternative think is a sensible foreign policy on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161736	But that's where I think I'm gonna have to disappoint sir. René Gade. Because I think that what will come out of that Mr. René Gade is helping to abolish the reservation of defence, in fact a policy which is in stark contrast to what the alternative wants, and therefore I simply cannot see why the alternative has joined the team that wants to abolish the reservation of defence. On the part of the Danish People's Party, this is about NATO. We simply do not believe these in Macron and Merkel and that they can defend Denmark. But it sounds like such an idealistic place, as Mr. René Gade comes from, and I just think, sir. René Gade has far too much confidence in what Macron and Merkel and others in the EU want with this effort to have a common EU army. I don't think it's the same thing as Mr. Kim. René Gade wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161824	I am actually quite idealistic in many areas, including political ones, but here I would like to say that I am extremely pragmatic, and we are also in the alternative. After all, we want to play two horses. We want to participate actively in the team called NATO until we have a better alternative. It may be that we will never have an alternative that will allow NATO to withdraw from NATO, and it is not certain that this will be the intention at all. We have a UN regime that we are very, very pleased with. But if we go this way and have the possibilities examined here and what that will mean, then suddenly we have two places to look when we have to find solutions internationally, and I think that is very pragmatic. Then we will have to find out from an idealistic point of view whether we are going to say no to what we have to decide within the framework of the European Union at times. And it could be. There must still be a two-thirds majority, but to have the opportunity and to explore the possibility in every way I think is in the spirit of the alternative and in the spirit of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161909	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127161919	These are turbulent times in defence and security policy in Europe, and that is why we need to talk about the EU defence reserve. It is increasingly a block on our leg and it is damaging to us in the work of influencing developments in the direction that we at least want in the Radical Left. Firstly, it is quite obvious to us that, as a small, open society, we say no to being in the defence and security policy and say no to putting our mark on it, our footprint. Secondly, the reservations are being zealously guarded, regardless of the fact that a great deal is happening in the area of European defence at this time. There have been examples here. Reason must give way to cold law, it must, because that is what the reservation is. And then we have to say no to providing Danish contributions to the EU operation in Mali, even if we contribute to the UN efforts. We must also say no to being part of the EU's maritime operations in the Mediterranean, which are aimed at trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration, and we have also said no to providing intelligence to the military staff of the EU Council Secretariat, because it could be seen as a contribution to the European Union. Thirdly, our referendums have meant that we tend to discuss the European Union only on very special occasions. Fortunately, this is changing a little, but it is still the case that we are either for or against in some contexts. It is good that we have a debate on substance, because it is not that simple. It is the case that we, in other words the countries, are part of the European Union. We are joint owners of this Community, and it is only the countries that can, in agreement, amend the Treaty. The EU is a cooperative arena which is regulated by clear rules of the game, as here in the Folketing. It is within the framework of a battlefield between our political views and interests, and we want close cooperation. Fourthly, and this is perhaps very important, we in Europe are currently being pressured to take greater responsibility for security on the continent, particularly in NATO, because Trump, as President, has this now well-known American view that Europe must pay a greater share of the bill, and it is being said so clearly that even a blind person can feel it with his cane. Fifthly, we will not avoid Putin as spielverderber. As a woman of peace, I want the nations to blossom side by side, but Putin has chosen a different path, which is why we have to stand together. I read out these five points and also the introduction. These are wise, wise words, and I can allow myself to say that because they are the words of the Minister for Defence to the contrary, and I fully agree with them. We are in complete agreement with the Radical Left. Close cooperation on defence in the EU makes Denmark safer, safer, and we live in an uncertain world. We need the European Union, just as we need NATO, and it is not an either-or-so-so-so-so-so. That is why we need to get rid of the defence reserve. We could never put our attitude or blur it here. I think the voters are sick and tired of that, too. We need to have a thorough discussion, we need to have a thorough debate, and we hope in the Radical Left that the government here will stick to the new or re-found line of defence so that we continue to talk about the real challenges and hopefully find a solution to the real problems. Because when it comes to security, security and defence policy, it is best done in conjunction with others in the EU as well as in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162333	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162335	Thank you. In any case, it is not possible to accuse the rapporteur of putting up with the positions, and I do not think it is particularly surprising that the Radicals would like to get off with the reservation either. But what I would like to ask a little more about is this with the foreign policy line. Now the rapporteur refers to herself as a woman of peace, and then I just have to ask quite specifically about some of the examples mentioned here: does the rapporteur think it would be better if we supported the EU's operation in Mali than the UN operation in Mali? More specifically, does the rapporteur think that it makes sense for billions of research money to be pumped into the development of the European military industry, which is going to happen over the next few years? Does the rapporteur think that this is a sensible direction to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162422	I think that the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr von der Vring, is right. Jan E. Jørgensen, said it very sensibly: it is super with the UN operation, but now it is being turned into an EU operation, perhaps because the EU has the resources in this context, and then it is entirely on the moon that we in Denmark cannot contribute to it. It's a really sensible operation. I have nothing to do with the fact that it should preferably be one or the other, but I want us to contribute, especially where we have the most competences, and we do, in fact, have that in relation to such an operation. That's one. On the other hand, whether we have any objection to investing, for example. In terms of research in the Defence Fund, I would say that no, we do not. We are certainly a place where we must try very hard to contribute to the peacekeeping, to the whole civil society building, to dialogue cooperation, but we are not where I hear the Enhedslisten is and where we will not participate in the other, especially if we cannot provide an alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162526	I think there is an alternative to armaments. I simply do not believe that a massive increase in arms production will create more security in the world, and I do not really think that is the position of the Radicals either, and that is why I think it is a very, very wrong use of billions, so to pump them into the production of more fighter planes, mines and everything else. However, in relation to this with the United Nations, I would say that it is simply not true that it is simply going to become the European Union. There have been two operations in Mali for many years, a UN mission and an EU-led mission, and as I said, the EU-led mission is therefore very much driven by France, while the UN mission has a very, very broad mandate based on a peace agreement that has been concluded there, which I think is much more sensible. You also have to deal with the facts before you just stand and throw up... sorry, not throw up, but just pointing out that we must also be part of the EU missions. Honestly, often and often, I think that the UN missions are far more sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162623	For me, it's not a either-or, because I'm so sensitive to the facts. I would like to participate in both the UN missions and the EU missions, which I and we also think are sensible. If you want to help disarm and invest in the right things in the field of research, for example. in cyber defence, which is also why we are part of the broad defence policy agreement, then you have to be at the table, and it is absolutely crucial for us to have an influence on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162655	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162658	It is simply a comment: I was not able to say that in the alternative we are very positive about the proposal for adoption that has been presented from among other things. Radical Left. We just need to get our group on, but I guess we're in if we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162713	I am very pleased to hear that, and I hope that, on behalf of the other authors, I can say: of course. It is good to be a broad coalition in this context, which is in favour of more cooperation, including in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162726	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127162742	It is true that the SF and, above all, the undersigned have some shares in the Danish derogations from 1993. Some people are asking why we want to discuss the defence exception here now. As far as I am concerned, there are at least two arguments on which I attach great importance. One is the Yugoslav civil war in the 1990s. I firmly believe that the European Union should have played a far, far greater role in this regard. I do not know whether the massacre in Srebrenica could have been avoided, but I have no doubt that a faster reaction from the outside world and a more consistent reaction from the outside world could have done much in relation to the Yugoslav civil war. That is why I think it is important that we discuss how we in Europe can create security when it is needed. The second point I would like to mention is the paradigm shift. It has become such a modern word that has come up. It is currently being negotiated in the Ministry of Finance. But there was also a paradigm change in 2001 when Anders Fogh Rasmussen became Prime Minister of Denmark. Where until then Danish foreign policy had been relatively closely linked to Germany and to Europe, to the EU, Rumsfeld called the old Europe, it happens that Anders Fogh Rasmussen connects Denmark to the USA. Denmark will be the most transatlantic country next to Britain at that time and will be very closely linked to American politics, also personally between Anders Fogh Rasmussen and George W. Bush. It is, of course, most clearly expressed in participation in the Iraq war. Then I realized and I do not understand that the rest of the left does not see the reasoning that it is simply necessary for us to start thinking about how alternatives to the American hegemony can be put forward. Why do we always have to depend on what the Americans do? Why can it not be possible to provide other options than those defined by the United States? So what we're saying to ourselves is, how can this happen? In what context can this be done? I must say that this is the European Union and Europe. I simply think it is necessary for Europe to be calm and to begin to define itself more in terms of foreign policy and security policy. This is not least necessary at the moment. After all, this discussion is very much about NATO and defence expenditure etc. It is quite clear that NATO membership is not what we are discussing here today. Denmark is a member of NATO. NATO still stands. If NATO collapses, if Trump pulls the United States out of NATO, we will be in a completely new situation, which we will have to go all the way from there. We are not at the moment. In other words, NATO membership is a basic prerequisite for this discussion. What is crucial, then, is how we can have a security policy in this context. I would much rather discuss security policy more broadly than narrow defence policy. Because I think that's what matters. The military is a tool in the toolbox. What is crucial is the common foreign and security policy. What will we do in the world? What alliances do we want? What are our objectives? As I have said before, I do not believe that a credible security policy can be pursued if there is no defence behind it. Okay. Then the question is how big a military we should have, how big a role it should play. Is it the case that we want to turn Europe into a military superpower? What role should Europe play in this at all? These are questions which have hardly been formulated and at least have not been discussed at all, but which, as far as I am concerned, are the crucial issues. How do we see Europe? What will the Danish Government do? What does this little country in Europe want to do about security policy? This northern European country, which historian Søren Mørch once called the northern German plain? That is what the discussion should be about, I think. Then the defence exception comes into play there. Yeah, it does. But that's just the context in which we have to take it into account. I'm not so hysterical about this. We've had the defence exception. It hasn't been a disaster. There isn't a mine that hasn't been cleared, and there isn't an operation that has gone wrong because we weren't there. It is not the case that the world has collapsed because of it. But we need to look at whether it is in our own interests, in the interests of Danish foreign policy, that we formulate a European policy to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163308	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are two brief comments and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163314	Well, thank you very much. I think it is precisely at the heart of discussing what security policy we would like to have, what foreign policy we would like to have, and I think we are fortunately very much in agreement on this in the Enhedslisten and the SF, that is to say what direction we are going to take, namely a much more peaceful direction. As I see what is happening right now, the development of the European Union is not to a great extent an alternative to NATO or the United States, and we hear the Minister for Defence say this, and it is also stated in the adoption that NATO is still the cornerstone of Danish foreign policy. That is what it says in its adoption. The second is that I would like to hear something from the rapporteur: if the rapporteur thinks that things are going in the right direction, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen, is it going in the right direction in the European Union when we talk about moving on with peace and disarmament? As I see it, it is therefore a very, very systematic piece of equipment that we are dealing with right now, and I am extremely concerned that this is the logic that prevails. We agree that we would like to take it in a different direction, but if you look at the reality, what is the direction in which the big countries are heading right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163422	I think there is too much armaments in Europe, but it is not the European Union, it is NATO that is the problem there. It is then Trump's 2 percent requirement that is being put over everyone in Europe at the moment, so that you hardly know what to spend the money on. It is the 2-percent requirement that gives that armament, it has nothing to do with the European Union. That is why we need to discuss it. I am also against, and that is why we were against the Danish defence settlement, because there is too much armaments there, and I think there is too much armaments. When you look at what is of arms in Europe and what is of defence costs, it is exorbitantly a lot of money that is being spent, even in relation to Russia, that is far, far more money than you, for example. user in Russia. So I think there are too many weapons and I would like to discuss disarmament, but it just has nothing to do with the European Union, because it is a NATO discussion, a debate that is going on quite elsewhere and is largely due to the pressure from the United States. That's exactly why I think it's so important that we get away from the logic of the completely brain-dead logic that Trump has launched with this 2-percent increase that isn't related to anything at all. Greece is living up to it, but does it mean that it then, because it spends a lot of money on defence, is effective? No, I guess not! That is why we have to, I think, have a more qualified discussion of what we are spending the money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163549	I regret that both the President and the rapporteur have completely forgotten the time in the very interesting dialogue. But we only have 1 minute the first time and 1⁄2 minute the next time. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163559	That's the way it goes. As far as disarmament is concerned, I have to say that that is not what is on the table. This has something to do with NATO. What we are seeing right now is that both Merkel and Macron, for example. is out to comment on it and they say: we recognise that we have to do what Trump and NATO say we have to increase military spending. But what this is all about is that the money should be in the European defence industry's coffers rather than in American companies. That is the reason why all this political cooperation in the field of defence is being speeded up in the European Union, and I think the SF has to deal with that too. I wonder, for example. also a little over the fact that the SF is part of this text of adoption which says that NATO is the cornerstone of Danish defence cooperation. Is that what you mean or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163645	Well, it's NATO, isn't it? We are in favour of NATO. NATO is a crucial cornerstone, but the question is how to define a more independent European line in this context. That is, of course, what is, like, the complexity of it, and it will be interesting to have it discussed. As far as defence spending is concerned, it is still Trump who has run it there with 2%, who is running wild on it with 2%. That is because you are afraid of Trump, it is not because you want to support the European defence industry. Some people will, I understand. But frankly, it is the Enhedslisten's line that the Americans must supply all defense equipment. I mean, Enhedslisten were the ones who were most opposed to the F-35 combat aircraft purchase. It is the Americans who are sitting on it all at the moment. I understand that we need fewer weapons, but to say that it is just the Americans who have to deliver it, I do not think that they can be left-wing politics, because they are certainly happy to hear that in Washington.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163753	Sir. I think the rest of Kenneth Kristensen Berth must be done bilaterally somewhere else. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth has the next brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163801	I think we should start by stating that it is not Donald Trump who invented the 2%. In bnp to the defence budget. It was part of the 2014 Wales Summit signed and accepted by the Danish government under Helle Thorning-Schmidt. I can't remember if it was, before or after the SF drank out of the government. But in any case, I did not hear SF protest loudly at that time. Having said that, I actually think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen gives the most disturbing speech today, because Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is able to define himself and his party as a counter-image to the United States and thus actually goes into the same rhetoric that Emmanuel Macron and Angela Mergel have started, that we cannot rely on them, that we cannot trust the United States. That is why we need to be able to do something else and be able to take care of ourselves, because if we are to be able to manage ourselves, then the European Union must be a military major power. Then there is no discussion about it. Then the European Union must be a military superpower, and that is what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen will? A lot of water has been pouring through the cymbal since 1992.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127163910	It would be an advantage if Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth wants to knock out his ears. I have always said that this is happening in the context of NATO. NATO is there. And in terms of our security in external attacks, it is a NATO task. We still have Article 5. That is why it is a task within NATO to stand guard over Article 5. But this is not just about defence policy; it is not just about how we defend ourselves against an outside enemy. It is also about what security policy we want to define from the European side. Then it is that I say that there is reason to talk about greater autonomy in relation to the United States. There is no question of us being a military superpower. I said exactly that we should not be a military superpower. What I am also saying is that if the whole of NATO collapses, we are in a completely new situation, a fundamentally different situation which we must then take from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164009	Yes, but perhaps the rapporteur could also refrain from blaming the President of the United States for something for which he is not really to blame. He's just trying to get the countries to deliver. He can be blamed for a lot of other things, but he's not to blame for that. I just took note and I wrote it down pretty precisely that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said: Why should we always be dependent on the Americans? If we are not to rely on the Americans, then we need a massive military armament in the European Union. If the European Union is to be able to act completely solo without the United States, then it requires a massive military armament. So I don't understand where sir. Holger K. Nielsen wants to make that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164049	I believe, for example, that Europe must have a stronger security policy in the Middle East so that Europe and the European Union can put more pressure on Israel and the Israeli settlement policy. I believe that Europe could play a far, far greater role there. I believe that Europe could play a greater role in reconstruction in various parts of the world. NATO is good at waging war, but not good at building up after the wars. Europe can play a strong role there, and the European Union is doing so in a number of places at the moment. That is where I think the European Union really can and must play a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164134	Thank you very much, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments and we now have the opportunity to turn to the ministers, and I understand from the rapporteurs that they have accepted that the Minister for Defence has left the negotiations, but that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is answering the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164155	I would like to make this very brief and very thankful to the rapporteurs for a good and constructive debate, which I really think illustrates the whole point of our strategy paper, in which we have concluded that it is time for us to have an external analysis of what is the overall situation in this area for Denmark, and we look forward to receiving it. This is an aggravated threat picture that we have in our vicinity. We have an American position that Europe must assume greater responsibility, and the development of European defence cooperation is quite clear that this is important. We need to discuss openly where it leaves Denmark. I think that today's debate has made it clear that there are many angles to this discussion and that there are no final conclusions. It actually gives itself, in the light of the fact that the world is developing incredibly strongly as it is doing at the moment. In other words, if you go back 20, 25, 30 years in time or around the fall of the wall, where you thought there was the red world and the free world, that was roughly the conflict we had to deal with. Now we have to deal with Russian aggression in Ukraine and troop building in relation to the Baltic countries. We ourselves have disputes with both Saudi Arabia and Iran just in the last few weeks. There is North Korea and South Korea and China's increasing influence on the world and increasing self-confidence. Alongside that, alongside the whole discussion, we are also clearly affected by what role it is, such as the European Parliament. The British will play in the future after brexit. So there is a lot on the plate, and it does of course mean that it is a relevant discussion that we have today. I would like to thank you for having been there and for the fact that the views that have been raised have also come as clearly as they are. But I would also like to pay tribute to the SF's rapporteur for actually saying this very clearly, namely that, even though one has had reservations, the world can change to such an extent that it may make sense to take one, what should one say, for some perhaps surprisingly new position. But it is not surprising if you take what you should do in politics as a starting point, that is to say that you are dealing with reality. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164438	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164442	The fact that you just have to change your mind from one moment to the next has obviously become very modern. My position, the position of the Danish People's Party, must now be taken into account: there is a Prime Minister who also said that there is a difference between a position and a position • it is clear that we should not challenge our NATO cooperation. And there I have to say that the whole rhetoric we hear from France, from Germany, from the European Commission, from the European Parliament is essentially about challenging our relationship with NATO. I simply do not understand why the Liberal Alliance, why the government thinks it is an agenda worth pursuing. I don't understand what the government wants to do with the whole showdown that I mean with the defence reservation being expressed. The Foreign Minister came so close to saying that this was a dispute with the defence reserve, following on from the Foreign Minister's comment to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's speech. I just think that one has to rely on NATO cooperation, which is the most important forum for discussing defence policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164604	In other words, I have not at any time indicated that it is not transatlantic cooperation, cooperation in NATO, which is the cornerstone of the defence of our freedom. I do not believe that it is the case that, because the British have no defence reserve in relation to the European Union, they have toned down their ties with NATO, compared to what the rest of us have. It seems like a strange way to conclude. In other words, if you discuss the defence reserve, if you take up the whole security policy situation surrounding Denmark, you are about to challenge NATO membership; that is a wild way to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164644	Yeah, but it's just because I hear two different things. When I see and hear what is going on in the European Parliament, when Merkel speaks, Macron speaks, I hear one direction that is about the EU being able to fend for itself independently of the United States, in fact, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said that when I read what the Foreign Minister's colleague writes today in Berlingske, and when I hear the Foreign Minister, I just hear something quite different, and both can't be right. And since I can see that Angela Merkel is pleading for an EU army, Macron is pleading for an EU army, the Commission wants an EU army, the majority of this House wants an EU army, how can you stand here in the Folketing and say that it is just a Fatamorgana?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164731	But some of what has been discussed today has, among other things, been the case. was Denmark's relationship with e.g. The defence reserve. However, instead of starting there, we are now launching an investigation work, we are awaiting the report that will come from DIIS, and then we will also have a frank discussion on that matter afterwards. I do not know whether you hear two different things or just will not listen to what is being said. Because I have not heard any of the traditional parties supporting NATO membership say that we are going to challenge NATO membership at all. We're just listening to, among other things. the President of the United States, who believes that Europe must take greater responsibility. We conclude that there is pressure in relation to the 2%. We have to deal with that too. We conclude that the security policy situation around Denmark is constantly changing at the moment, and there we have to discuss openly what that means for the position we have in Denmark, among other things. also in relation to the defence reservation. Personally, I would like to say this upfront, but I think it is quite right and fair that we should have an open discussion on the basis of an impartial statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164845	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then we'll give the rapporteur for the questions, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, the opportunity for a final comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127164907	Well, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate we have had here today. I would say that I feel a little like I am moving in a parallel universe, because there is simply no connection between what is being talked about at European level and what is being talked about here in the Chamber, what is being written about in Berlingske, what is being said about Politiken, etc. If it were in any other area that Angela Merkel, Emmanuel Macron, the majority of the European Parliament and the European Commission agreed to go in a particular direction, it would not be taken down in the Chamber in such a way that it would be said that it does not exist. But that is what is being done, and I simply do not think it is right that the debate on an EU army in Europe should not be reflected in the attitude of the government towards this proposal. I would say that as I have heard the positions today, not so many of the positions have puzzled me. The position that has really puzzled me most has probably been that of the Social Democrats. After all, you have chosen such a very backward attitude, which is really just about the fact that when the majority of Danes are not with Social Democracy in a desire to abolish the defence reserve, we should not try to abolish the defence reserve. I think the other positions are more or less well known. I am, of course, pleased that the Social Democrats say that the party will not work to abolish the defence reserve, but we should not now stand here and discuss what will happen after a forthcoming election. But the Danish People's Party will never ever support the abolition of the defence clause... that will not happen... and that is why the vote on the defence clause may not be taken either. It is quite clear that many people want it, but they put it, and I really do not think that is right. We might as well put it as it is: with this project, with this statement, we are proposing the abolition of the defence reserve, just as it has become quite clear to everyone that the question of the banking union and the expert opinion that is in this area serves only the purpose of recommending that Denmark be part of the banking union. And I am delighted that the Social Democrats in this area have indicated that we must have a referendum on the banking union. So, in this area, the Social Democrats would like a referendum, and of course we welcome that. And perhaps we should have a little debate on it in the Parliamentary Chamber so that we can also take note of the fact that this is the case in this beautiful Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127165200	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? The minister? The rapporteurs? No, there is not, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place, as I said, on Thursday 29 September 2018. I would like to ask the rapporteurs to remember to log off in their place if that is not their usual place, as it gives us an easier transition to the next point if someone should sit down in these places or if someone would speak from their normal place. If someone could log Mrs. Eva Flyvholm's place off, that would be great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127165249	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127165313	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party we regard fishing as part of a proud Danish history. Fishing is a cultural carrier in Denmark, which is why we also have great visions for Danish fishing. For us, there must be room for the large and medium-sized ones, but there must also be room for the small ones. It must be a healthy business that allows the whole fishing fleet to develop and that development is not only reserved for the few. There must be activity along the coasts and ports, creating jobs and creating the life of coastal communities that are characterised and created by fisheries as an institution. The development of Danish fishing has moved in such a way that there have been fewer fishermen, and it was probably also intended that there should be, because there should be a better economy in the fisheries sector than there had been in the past, but the trend has also been such that the quota concentration has grown and it has also become too large in some contexts. Therefore, we have experienced challenges with those who have been baptized quota kings, who as a catfish in the cottage yard have been a challenge for the development of Danish fishing. It has actually been tried to manage the development of Danish fishing by setting ceilings on how many quotas fishermen may own, but quota kings and others are characterised by the fact that, in addition to their formal ownership, they also engaged in the quota portfolio of other fishermen and thus gained a large, dominant and controlling influence in terms of getting more fish, more quotas than were actually allowed within the limits of the ceilings. With the bill we are debating today, we are tightening our grip on quota kings and on quota concentration in Danish fisheries. We are introducing a new regulatory model which means that in the future we will have to determine how many quotas a given fisherman has at its disposal, and when we do so we will have to dig a number of spades deeper than has been done so far. Until now, we have perhaps not in all cases been given a complete picture of how many fishing quotas a given fisherman has at his disposal, because the financial records have disregarded the economic balances which may exist between fishermen and which have not resulted in formal ownership of quotas. With the bill here, fishermen must also recognise how many fishing quotas they have, for example, guaranteed, and thus we can get a true picture of how fishing rights in Denmark are distributed and how much fishing rights each fisherman has control over. This allows for the effective enforcement of the quota concentration ceilings, and of course it has to be done in a very complicated and technical way, so we get it all in, but it is with this bill that we have introduced the concept of a and b quotas in Danish fishing, and I think that is good for getting one, as I say, whole-cast picture of how many fishing quotas a fisherman actually has. With the amendment of the law, Danish professional fishermen and commercial fishermen's banks, accountants and other advisors are similarly obliged to provide information on economic accounts, while at the same time increasing access to business fishermen and fishermen's business premises. We believe that this will help to ensure that the necessary instruments are also available to monitor compliance with the rules. Finally, the draft law here also adjusts the composition of the Board of Directors of the Fisheries Tax Fund so that we achieve a broader industrial representation and, at the same time, get more public interests involved in that board work. With those words, I should just like to say that the Social Democratic Party can support the bill, and I have also promised to greet our colleague in the SF, who has today been prevented from coming to the debate here, and to say that the SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127165804	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Ib Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127165812	Today we are discussing Bill No. L 112, draft law amending the Law on Fisheries (Taxation against quota concentration in Danish fisheries). The bill is part of the agreement on the fight against quota kings... an agreement by all parties. The legislative proposal has the same number as the emergency centre, 112, and it can at least be said that there has been a need for parties to move out and to do something about quota kings and the concentration of quotas. So I guess it's not quite a coincidence. With the bill, we are changing the regulatory model so that we go from looking only at ownership to looking now at which quotas a fisherman has an influence on. One has a decisive influence when, for example, borrowing quotas or guaranteeing quotas for other commercial fishermen. The draft law obliges professional fishermen and companies to report economic accounts. The same applies to fishermen's banks, lawyers and accountants. As a final element, the Fisheries Tax Fund will have a new composition of the Board of Directors, where there will be more members from the profession and members who will be responsible for the public interest. In DF we want a diverse fisheries. There must be room for large ocean-going trawlers to accommodate medium-sized vessels that can fish in Norwegian waters in the North Sea and vessels that hopefully can continue to fish in British waters. Finally, there must also be room for inshore fishing. One does not exclude the other. Coastal fishing has been under pressure in recent years, no doubt about that. Usually you have to be careful about self-rose, but it has been very important for DF to maintain coastal fishing in Denmark, as Denmark would, in DF's opinion, become much poorer without this fishing. This is a rural policy, life in the small remaining ports, etc. We have and will continue to fight for Danish coastal fishing. It has succeeded in getting it through with difficulty and effort. But we have succeeded because in DF we have stood firm on this agenda. As far back as 2005, when the so-called FKA system was introduced, it was DF's requirement to agree that there should be a coastal fishing system. During this period we have revised and improved this system, as we could see that it has been distorted to the disadvantage of coastal fishing in recent years. In this context, I would like to thank the parties that have been behind the agreement on a better framework for coastal fishing from the outset. When the IOK and FKA agreements were concluded in the '00s, it was necessary to ensure profitable fishing, but the agreements had the effect of bringing fishing quotas together in fewer and fewer hands. That development has a majority of the parties in the Folketing wanted to stop. Everyone in Denmark knows that it has not been easy, but in the Danish People's Party we have held on. Indeed, we believe that inshore fishing must continue to play a role. That is why the ravages of the quota kings must be stopped, and that must be the end of, among other things. the exorbitant rental prices. The problems with the quota kings were also revealed when it emerged that one of the quota kings had his accountant on the board of his fishing company. The government hasn't been helpful. A former minister felt that a declaration of faith and law by an accountant, who would otherwise be on the board of the fishing company, could solve the problem, although it turned out that he was sitting on no less than 16 proposals for tightening up the quota kings. Fortunately, we got the government to truce, and it was because the Danish People's Party held on. And today we are dealing with a proposal that makes it harder for quota kings to run around with the rules, and we are not finished yet. Right now we are discussing how we can combat quota concentration through rules for mussel fishing in Limfjorden, and then we are discussing how best to put together the Fisheries Working Environment Council in the future. So there is enough to do, even though the government is unfortunately still not really cooperative. DF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170311	Thank you, sir. Ib Poulsen, and I would like to welcome Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170321	Thank you. With our more than 7,300 km long coastline, Denmark is a historic and proud fishing nation. I think we can all agree on that very much. Fishing is also an important profession. I think we are very much in agreement on that too. It creates growth and jobs throughout the country, and it makes a major and important contribution both to Danish exports and thus also to prosperity, growth and welfare. Of course, the Left also wants to help create the framework for continued strong fishing, and the bill we are discussing here today, together with the other initiatives we are undertaking, will also help to ensure a more appropriate distribution of Danish fishing quotas. This will provide a variety of Danish commercial fisheries with space for both small, medium and large vessels for the benefit of the industry and of course also for the whole of Denmark. Overall, we can say that a disproportionate level of quota concentration must be avoided and, of course, the Left also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170431	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen, and welcome to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170447	Thank you. Enhedslisten also supports the bill. After all, the draft law is based on the report produced by the Committee on the Environment and Food on a growth and development package for Danish fisheries. At that time there was a majority outside the government, which had a large number of points to be implemented, and then there was also a minority opinion in that report in which the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives expressed their views. Now we have a bill that probably the whole parliament supports. What was, after all, what should be said about the clarification in the report that was made was, among other things, the clarification in the report. This is where the effort against quota kings is being made to ensure that fishing quotas are not concentrated in a few hands, as we are currently seeing in the fisheries sector. And the majority instructed the government to amend the Fisheries Act, which introduced rules on the first, that professional fishing companies should be required to inform the owners of the last third of the companies and, next, that rules should be laid down that control should not be exercised beyond the concentration ceiling of the individual species, and it should be stated that fishing quotas cannot be rented in excess of the concentration ceiling. It may sound a little technical, but it was, in fact, an order for the bill that we are then dealing with today. It can be seen in the consultation answers that some people are not quite enthusiastic about what we are introducing now, and that is probably something that can be new to a profession where there has been some funding for fishing that has been carried out between fishermen in a tradition. We are doing so little here because we say that there must be publicity about it if a fisherman with a lot of fishing quotas has a controlling influence on other fishermen, for example, by means of fishing. has large loans or borrowing quotas. So this is a matter of trying to clean up. I am also very pleased that an evaluation has been included in the draft law here in 2021. Because if you look at the historical development that has taken place in the fisheries sector, when fishing quotas were given away at some point, and when you saw that there was a quota concentration which was greater than what was intended when fishing quotas were given away, then there is good reason to continue to follow it up and to keep an eye on whether this bill is helping to limit the fact that few fishermen are still being given more and more influence. It has also been interesting in this process to see that the Reichsaudit was about to make a report on the area. We have seen that the State auditors have made a strong criticism of the way in which the public administration conducted quota management. So this is not just a question of some fishermen who may have been a little too skilful to challenge rules and legislation, because they have also had public bodies that have not managed it well enough. Then perhaps we also originally had a law which had some intentions that now we should develop fisheries, but we have not been precise enough from the outset about what that was for a reduction in concentrations, which was actually appropriate. So I very much hope that this bill will change any practice and help to ensure that we have more transparency about who owns the fishing industry and that fisheries do not have even higher quotas than what is currently the case. Should the law not work as intended, we look forward to the evaluation that will be carried out in 2021, because then there will be an opportunity to make things right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170857	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. And welcome to Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127170906	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. As I have also said before in connection with the legislative procedure in this Parliament on fisheries, there should be no doubt whatsoever that the Liberal Alliance has been very pleased with the liberalisation of fisheries carried out over the last 15 years in Denmark. This has saved a profession, which at that time was in an absolutely depressed situation, from getting to the bottom of it and has provided a great many jobs, both in the industry and in Danish port cities. What is good fisheries policy? First and foremost, good fisheries policy should be a very simple and easy-to-understand policy, so that fishermen actually have the opportunity to concentrate on fishing the fish, their quotas allocate them, and earn money for themselves and for Denmark, thereby providing jobs in the industry and, as I said, jobs for the Danish port towns around the country. However, a certain balance must also be ensured in the fishing industry and the possibility of continuing to operate fishing activities of all sizes and varieties from all ports of Denmark, also in an economically viable way. And the regulation must therefore also ensure greater transparency in ownership and investment conditions in the fishing industry in Denmark. It is then estimated that the forthcoming legislation will prevent fishing quotas from gathering together on what some parties consider to be too few hands and countering possible rogue arrangements. My concern, however, is that the legislation is also an unfortunate expression of the fact that a majority here in the Folketing will actually go too far with detailed management and an eagerness to control the cash flows in the fishing industry in Denmark. I share the concerns expressed in the consultation responses to the legislative proposal here, about the deterioration of loan opportunities and cofinancing in the industry due to the forthcoming legislative changes. I am concerned that the positive developments we have seen in the industry in recent years will now be weakened by the fact that generational shifts are being made more difficult. In any case, it is clear to everyone that the administrative burden on fishermen in particular is increased by the introduction of so-called 'A' and 'B' quotas. In Danish administrative law we have a very healthy principle of proportionality. As some of the parties to the consultations also say, I can be nervous or even afraid that we are going too far in the regulation when we require the fishermen to disclose all their economic accounts. It is not, of course, such a precise definition of what economic accounts are. Is it mortgage loans in private homes? Or is it, for example, how much one owes because one has lost in card games at the local pub? Where exactly is the limit? As such, the draft law may not really take a position on this, but it is very important that we ensure a proportionality in precisely those conditions, that is to say that we do not require the individual fisherman to disclose matters which have nothing to do with the profession at all. For this reason, I and the Liberal Alliance also believe that there should be a small limit to what is required as a fisherman to inform the authorities. As part of the government and the agreement behind the agreement on action against quota concentration in Danish fisheries, which was concluded a late evening hour on 16 November 2017, I am so looking forward to participating in the upcoming evaluation of the effort and the forward-looking work on fisheries policy and rules on quota concentration. That is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171328	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171333	First, I would like to say that it becomes too stigmatizing to suggest that Danish fishermen go to the inn and play cards, especially that they should lose money. I do not think the fishermen do that; I think that if you go to the inn, it is to win money. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What I really would like to ask is what the rapporteur is thinking about proportionality, and I even think that the rapporteur at some point in the Chair was afraid of this situation and said that he wanted to have trivial limits and so on. And, of course, we can discuss these matters here. It is perfectly legitimate to do so, but I have to ask the rapporteur: what will be taken out of the complex that lies here? Well, what's going to be different? What's the alternative to doing what we're doing with this bill? Because I assume that we agree that something needs to be done and that what has been an unfortunate quota concentration must be stopped, that is to say, those who are called quota kings must be stopped. I take as a basis that we agree on. So what do you want to take out? What do you want to put in place? Actually, I'm a little curious to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171436	As far as the technical circumstances of this kind are concerned, I cannot say from the platform what should be replaced. But now the questioner also assumes some things about the policy of the Liberal Alliance and the Liberal Alliance in the area of fisheries. Once again, there should be no doubt that the Liberal Alliance actually thought that the fishing industry was in a good position even before these agreements and these rules were made. For me and for the Liberal Alliance, it is not so crucial who actually has money in these quotas and whose hands the money is on. What, I think, is interesting for the industry here is that it is economically viable to fish up the fish that are and that the fishermen who have the quota shares will also have the opportunity to do so. I do not attach the same weight to these quota concentrations as the questioner might do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171543	No, there I came enough to base the agreement on the development of Danish fishing too much. At least we do not see that in the same way, I can see that. I believe that there are other considerations that count with the fact that it must of course be profitable to catch the fish, which is also my impression that it is because people keep catching fish and they are also caught in a large way. Then, of course, the obvious question is as obvious as it is simple: why is it that the Liberal Alliance is part of this political agreement and chooses, as I hear it, to vote in favour of the specific legislative proposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171620	That is quite clear because we want to sit at the table where these rules and fisheries policy are to be evaluated and shaped in the coming years. We hope, in fact, that a little more sense can come into the Folketing after a forthcoming parliamentary election and also forward-looking, which can get these things back in place so that, as I also said in my speech, there will be an opportunity for fishermen to drive their profession and fish up the fish to which they have a quota share, and that there can be economic profitability in it, whether it is the small coastal fisherman on Funen or the large pelagic fisherman in Hirtshals or Skagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171701	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171704	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I got a little curious, too. Now the rapporteur says that he cannot explain the technical details of what else we could do in terms of curbing quota kings. But now that over 50 smaller ports in Denmark and the smaller coastal fishermen are closed over the last 11 years, they are the ones who use sustainable gear and among other things. This is also due to the fact that we have had some quota concentrations where the accumulation of capital has become so large that they have simply eaten the small ones, and therefore these small ports close around Denmark. What is the rapporteur's position on this development?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171803-2	Now, you can say, you can set up many parameters for why active port cities have disappeared around the country. I do not think that the development of fisheries is the only reason for precisely that. I really think that it is enough, if you look at the Danish economy in such a broad way, that it is actually a relatively natural development. And what has been crucial to me and to the Liberal Alliance in this context is precisely that it is a business that can operate economically and that there is room for variations within the profession of large fishermen, small fishermen who can have economic profitability in this. That is what is crucial. And it was a development that had been in one, you might say, positive over a ten to fifteen-year period, and I think we could easily have continued this without these very large political swordfights on politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171900	The questioner does not want an extra question, I can see, and then we move on to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171909	Thank you. Now I heard that the rapporteur said, and I quote: fishing was in a good position before we did this intervention. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can demonstrate that things are going worse today than they did before we adopted these things that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127171928	No, I may not be able to document that, but we have not yet adopted the specific legislative proposal. I know that we do, but that is clearly a concern, and one cannot say that one should have the high degree of joint guard in order to be able to read the answers we have received today and to see that there is also a relatively large and, incidentally, broad concern in the industry and elsewhere in Danish society that we are politically dividing up an otherwise relatively economically viable fishing industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172003-2	It is true that we have taken a great deal of action that has already had an effect and, as I can read the figures, certainly not a negative effect. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he disagrees with the fact that inshore fishing needs some protection in this context. Because we can see that over a long period of time they have been under pressure both on quotas and on the economy, and if we had not been able to hold our hand in the same way as we had been in the Folketing, it would probably not have passed, and that would have been the case, as the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Roger Courage Matthisen, says, that then the last small port towns would have been closed too. Does the rapporteur not think that in some areas of society it is necessary to keep a hand in some activities to promote them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172100-2	Again, I do not believe that the conclusion concerning the closure of Danish ports, or that we see less activity in certain Danish ports, can necessarily be paralleled by one hundred percent with the development of the fishing industry. And then, in principle, I do not think that we should hold our hands under or above any profession in Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172127	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Welcome to sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172135	Thank you. When the Ministry of the Environment and Food for too many years, too long, has allowed large-scale, capital-intensive fishermen, the so-called quota kings, to outperform smaller coastal fishermen in an unhealthy way, in my view, this is not just an expression of a huge democratic problem; it is actually something that does infinite damage to sustainable coastal fishing. Because if some have suffered from this undemocratic management of quota concentrations, it is those I mentioned earlier, which the DF rapporteur mentioned before, namely the small inshore fishermen fishing gently, those who fish with great respect for nature, those who fish with great respect for small communities, those who have a minimum fuel consumption, those who use fishing gear that does not affect the seabed, those who do not have very high by-catch. All of them have turned the key one by one in favour of the quota kings' giant trawlers, which I believe each year in by-catch has the equivalent of 1,000 Toyota Aygos if they are filled. A former Minister for Fisheries has said so. So I really like the package that's been made. And we in the Alternative are very pleased with the fisheries package, on which the Social Democratic Party and DF in particular once again congratulate them for setting it in motion. We have been frontrunners and we are a large majority behind it. Indeed, this is a major step on the way to patching up the gaps in the democratic system and ensuring greater diversity with regard to fishing quotas and our fisheries. In the alternative, of course, we want to take the step even further and strengthen sustainable fishing by fundamentally changing the current system of transferable quotas and terminating fishing quotas and then letting the state own them and lend them out. There was no majority in favour of this. But in addition, together with the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have proposed to introduce a deduction scheme to exempt naturally-friendly fishermen from tax at the time of the first allocation of quotas. In addition, we propose to create a Danish labelling scheme and, hopefully and fortunately, it is on its way to fish caught naturally so that it will be easier for the consumer to support small, sustainable fishermen. Finally, the alternative has recommended that we have a Commission which examines what has actually happened in the political system, which has made possible the wrong management of changing fisheries ministers and their duties over so many years, not only for the sake of fisheries, but also in general for us politicians, so that we can learn how it is not the only ministry that has had management challenges. And it can also be used as part of what we call debureaucratisation, in relation to our political system. So we need to make up for the huge democratic gaps in the system and make sustainable coastal fishing flourish, because it is good for us, it is good for nature, and it is good for the environment, and it calls into question our challenge that by 2050 we may have more plastic in the sea than fish as scientists say it is. So this 911 emergency proposal, the alternative can be very supportive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172524	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172538	Thank you. As has been said by several other rapporteurs, L 112 will ensure that we have the tools to enforce the spread of fishing quotas. This is necessary because the underlying political intentions have been bypassed through various creative financial arrangements. With this proposal, the UM is taking a firm stand and making sure that the political intentions we have had on the distribution of quotas are actually implemented, and of course the Radical Left supports that. I would like to add that I believe that the transferable quotas that we have in the fisheries sector today are an excellent tool. Overall, the fishing industry is in excellent shape, among other things. because of the transferable allowances. It has been an economic advantage for the big fishermen to buy as many as possible. Unfortunately, they have done so in a way that the purpose of the political agreements has been circumvented. But even if one can lament that I also do that there are fewer active fishing ports and fewer small cutters, one must also say that it is the small fishermen who have sold their own quotas, and they have ended up with the larger fishermen quite legally and legally. And I think it is an excellent mechanism that we have laid down over Danish fishing. So what governs support for L 112 for me is not a resistance to quotas as such, it is against the practice of circumventing a political intention of some dispersal in opaque arrangements. I hope, for the sake of the reputation of the profession, that this will be sufficient to restore the reputation of the profession in the long term. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172713	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127172724	Thank you. Danish fishing has been out in stormy weather for the last 2 years, especially here at Christiansborg. Denmark is one of the world's largest exporters of fish and fish products. We have a profession that has 16 000 jobs, we have a profession and a quota system that has been a great success since it started with herring in 2002. It was under Mr Bjerregaard as Minister, by the way. Later in 2005, the other fish species were included in the quota system. Before, you had a system where you had weekly programmes and monthly rations; that was actually what you were driving for. Fishing had to be adapted. There were far too many more cutters, i.e. vessels, than there were fish. We have seen a reduction in fishing vessels from then on by 1 200 fishing vessels to 671 vessels now. It has been a halving of the fleet, and it has simply been necessary. Many fishermen at that time were going bankrupt, and some had gone bankrupt. So, politically speaking, it was right to have transferable quotas, and the transferable quotas have strengthened Danish fishing, also internationally. The total catch in Danish fisheries is 3.5 billion. kr. a year; we export for 26 billion. kr. It is now that Danish fishing after we say yes to Bill No. 911, needs quiet for their work. This means that we politicians must lay down the hatchets and then give the fishing industry time to do their job. In some areas of adaptation, some transitional arrangements have been made in relation to the transferable quotas, which means that we have an eight-year course in many of these areas, which we have statutory. It is not something that revolutionises Danish fishing, and it is not something that kills the big fishermen. What we see now is that there are some who have to dismantle some of their cutters. Some would call it "strawmen " - it has also been called " and it can also be called "partners. " This means, however, that some of the capital-intensive fishermen may need to be forced to stand up to partners in which they have invested. In Thyborøn we have seen the first vessel to shut down and have been sold to a Norwegian because with this operation there were no quotas for that cutter anymore. The Danish fishermen have been the very best in the field internationally to exploit the quotas, and quota utilisation is one of the places where I see that we can risk getting a problem. I hope not, but we can look at the evaluation when we get there. When you look at the answers to the hearings, you can see that some people have mentioned legal certainty and that you can enter the professions here without a court order. Unfortunately, this is necessary, and it has been one of the measures that must be taken, but it is a little cross-border for me to see that one can go into such a private area. Does fishing lose capital on this? I'm afraid so. I am afraid that there are some fishermen who have capital in this area and who can pay young fishermen and who can risk losing capital. I hope I am wrong; the coming years will show this until we have to revise the law here. Is there a risk of a reduction in catches? I can be afraid that we will not be as good at using the quota system, as we have done in Europe. But I hope here too that I am wrong and that we are able to fish in the various areas. Overall, it is good that we have achieved transparency in this area with an IT solution that is on the way. Overall, it is good that we strengthen the Danish Fisheries Authority, because the Danish Fisheries Authority has been too weak in relation to the huge, complex area of fishing. Conservative People's Party votes yes to L 112.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173250	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and we are giving the floor to the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173302	Thank you. I can be very brief. Because it is clear that all the rapporteurs are aware of the details of this bill, and that is, of course, because there have been long and laborious negotiations ahead of the draft law, and the draft law also reflects the agreement reached between the parties. I have to sign Ib Poulsen for today's most amusing remark about Bill 112. If anyone, it is Ib Poulsen who has called for changes in the rules and for transparency, so he is one of those who has called I have noted the concerns expressed by among others. Mr. Orla Østerby's side and Mr. Carsten Bach's side, in view of the fact that it is now also important that we follow up on what this has to do with consequences and how things are going in the fisheries sector. And as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned, we have agreed with each other an evaluation in 2021 to look together at how it looks in the area. So, with these few comments, I look forward to the committee reading and to the hope that we will be able to have the draft law examined before Christmas and thus put an end to the many initiatives that have been taken as a follow-up to the political agreement reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173431	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173446	The debate is open, and we are giving the floor to the first rapporteur, and that is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173507	Thank you. The bill is intended to translate parts of the agreement on business and growth initiatives, which, of course, do not contain my party. We tried to enter into these negotiations, but it was not something the government wanted to share in such a broader agreement. However, it was concluded between the governing parties, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in November 2017. There we have had various legal proceedings lately, which have been about this agreement, and one more comes today, which will give in concrete terms better conditions for the allocation of employee shares in new smaller companies, better conditions for savings in UCITS and for the attracting of capital to Danish UCITS. Overall, social democracy is positive about strengthening the entrepreneurial and stock culture in Denmark, both so that it becomes more accessible and attractive for the individual employee to invest, but also so that entrepreneurs have better opportunities to raise risk capital, or so that the bill gives you some other opportunities to pay your employees in a start-up phase. That is why we support the intentions behind the draft law and are in general in favour of the single elements of the proposal. Firstly, better conditions are proposed for the allocation of employee shares in new smaller companies. The bill will make it possible to receive up to 50 per cent. of income from income-free shares in small start-ups. We are in favour of this, but we believe that there should be a minimum share of employees who should have offered share remuneration, just as we know from ordinary employee shares. In concrete terms, we propose that a prerequisite for being able to go as far as 50 per cent. As far as wages are concerned, as in the proposal, 80 per cent. the company's employees receive the offer, as has also been the case with the previous treatment, which has been the opportunity to pay by up to 20%. employee shares in other types of companies. With the second point on better conditions for savings in UCITS, the draft law harmonises the taxation of savings in UCITS with a view to giving Danes better conditions when they save in foreign UCITS, i.e. typically being able to choose some kind of index product or investment fund certificate in a foreign UCITS. This may be more secure than investing in individual shares, and we support the bill because it harmonises the tax rules and makes it easier and more attractive for ordinary Danes to invest in shares. I also think it is important to stress that in some of the other proposals that the government has made, in other words, some kinds of measures are being proposed, where it is very much those who have a great deal of money to invest in order to achieve the big gains, and here it is people with a share income below the approx. Fifty thousand kroner, which will experience a lower tax burden on their investment, and thus it is primarily smaller investors who benefit from this relief. The third point is about better opportunities for attracting capital to Danish UCITS, and the draft law strengthens Danish UCITS' ability to offer their products on the international market. We will also support this proposal because it will make it easier to attract investment to Denmark, get more capital for Danish companies. After all, it's about making it easier to attract these foreign investors and making it easier for them to make their investments, that you don't impose a dividend tax on them on the 15%, if the Danish UCITS has paid that tax. In fact, that change should probably have been considered together with the general review of the yield complex and the yield legislation in Denmark, which will follow the dwindling of the dividend tax, a bill announced by the tax minister, which we have also seen the beginning of, but which is not yet ready to be put forward in the Folketing. We really think it would have been more appropriate if these things had been taken at the same time, but now it has been put forward here and as long as the discussions on that bill and the work on it and the resulting changes to the rules do not create further asymmetry, we can also support the proposal here. So, all in all, a positive expression from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173926	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127173936	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that an agreement was made on business and growth initiatives in November 2017 between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. This bill translates part of that agreement. The bill deals with several elements. There is, on the one hand, an allocation of employee shares targeted at new and smaller companies, and, on the other hand, there is something about better conditions for savings in UCITS. Regarding the part with employee shares, it is about the fact that start-ups may find it difficult to attract the right workforce they need. They have difficulty rewarding them as they typically have a small turnover and poor liquidity as start-ups. This initiative should help, as it is now possible to offer up to 50%. of wages paid as shares. As an employee, however, one should be aware that there is a greater risk than if the wage is paid in kroner. However, it also gives a greater connection to the individual company, since you will have the opportunity to become a co-owner of the company and the workplace where you are employed. In the government's run-up to the negotiations, companies should have a turnover or assets of less than 75 million. kr. It came from the EU's definition of what a smaller company is. We in the Danish People's Party felt that this was a very high priority, and that was something we were concerned about. Therefore, we were included in the agreement that it should be targeted at new and smaller companies. And in the bill, which is then part of the agreement, it is described as having to meet the criteria. That means having an annual turnover of less than 20 million. kr., you need less than 75 million. kr. in assets that must be less than 50 employees and the entity must be less than 5 years old. A number of protective measures are attached to this. However, we do not feel that we are entirely within the framework of the draft law in terms of describing what a small company is. In fact, we still think that the limit is set quite high too high. For example, we've got numbers that show that 94%. of all companies under the age of 5 years have a turnover of less than 25 million. kr. This really means that this initiative will apply to virtually all companies and not to those we actually agreed, namely only new and smaller companies. In the Danish People's Party, we therefore propose that the EU's borders be used instead for micro-enterprises. And that means ensuring a limit of 15 million. kr. in turnover and assets instead. We think that we are going to enter into a discussion during the committee procedure. Another element of the draft law is better conditions for savings in UCITS. It is about creating equality between foreign and Danish UCITS. We support that part, as it will benefit consumers with greater competition and thus lower costs for Danes. We also support the final part on better conditions for attracting capital to Danish UCITS. Finally, I can say that we support most of it, but, as I said, we need to have a look at it with the employee's shares during the committee procedure and, when I say 'we', this is a reference to the Danish People's Party's tax rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today when he is on sick leave. However, as I said, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174331	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174335	I'm just gonna hurry up and sign up to Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby and declare me willing to participate in this discussion on what the criteria should be for when you are a small company. We do not need to have a long discussion on this now, and the rapporteur is also here instead of Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. I would just like to say that I was given the understanding that it was part of the agreement that it was precisely this way that the cut was laid, and if it was not, we would very much like to enter into a discussion on whether it could be put a little lower. Because it's really some pretty high amounts that have been put into this boundary. We would like to take part in this discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174416-2	Yeah, that's right. It is, of course, part of an agreement, but that, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has meant by this is, of course, that if we can get the conciliation parties to realise that from the answers we have received there is 94 per cent. of these new companies, which are under 5 years old, which are perceived as being among these few companies, entrepreneurship companies, so it is probably too high a definition limit that has been set, and it is in that sense in respect that I speak on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174447	Apostasy? Yes. Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Gundelach. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174501	Thank you. I can warn Members of the House not to become tax rapporteur. Apparently, there is an epidemic among tax rapporteurs. Not only the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, but also the Left's Louise Schack Elholm has had to report decay. I've been watching that today, and her neck is crazy. So that's why I've been left to stand here. I should like to begin by welcoming the Conservative People's Party, which says that we can support the ideas that come from the Left. It is the case that when the Conservatives are not represented, it is because it is difficult to be in several places at once in this house. Around the legislative proposal itself, we are today discussing a proposal that translates three elements of the agreement on business and entrepreneurship initiatives from 2017 concluded between the governing parties, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. The aim of the draft law is, on the one hand, to strengthen the entrepreneurial and stock culture in Denmark and, on the other, to improve the investment conditions of UCITS in general. There are three elements to which the previous rapporteurs have referred. I shall briefly run through them without, however, hopefully going to overlap too much. The first part of the bill provides for an extension of the company's ability to allocate employee shares. Here the idea is to exempt employee shares from income tax by allocation in new and smaller companies. I am aware of the fact that employee shares are taxed as wage income, and the proposal here is therefore intended to tax them on the basis of the share premium rules. The Left can fully endorse that. In the start-up of a company there is a lack of liquidity and the need for highly specialised labour is and remains a major challenge. Therefore, it can be a really good solution to be able to allocate employee shares instead of perhaps not so high wage levels, so that you can subsequently also become part of the company's ownership staff. The second part of the bill is about uniform taxation of returns from share-based UCITS to include returns from foreign-based UCITS. Hopefully, it can motivate more people to invest more widely in shares, including through the so-called ETFs. Now I'm not going to be an expert on these financial abbreviations. As far as I understand, this is a kind of investment fund with passive funds, which follows some index and therefore also has lower costs than the places where you have to buy the shares directly. Foreign investment funds in this way, as an investor, will be able to become part of a larger pool in a community where they have bought shares and bonds. It is an excellent harmonisation which also allows people to participate, as I said, in foreign associations with lower costs, which typically apply to these associations. The third element is to exempt foreign investors from paying Danish dividend tax on the return on investment in a Danish UCITS. We present the proposal here and support the proposal with the aim of attracting foreign capital to Danish UCITS. The exemption is proposed subject to the payment of 15% by Danish UCITS. in tax on the Danish share yield. This condition effectively guarantees fiscal equality between the direct investment in Danish shares and investment via Danish UCITS. I think that a quite reasonable balance has been struck which ensures that good conditions are laid down for the allocation of employee shares, while at the same time improving investment conditions at UCITS, based on a tax advantage. This will strengthen entrepreneurship companies and improve the conditions for employee shares and investment culture in general, and on that basis the Left welcomes the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127174945	This is, after all, another departure from the so-called business and entrepreneurial package, and it consists of three sub-topics. The first is so-called better conditions for the allocation of employee shares in new smaller companies. Other rapporteurs have mentioned the content of this, but the essence is that between 10 and 20 per cent could be given. of the wage as employee shares for special companies and relatively new companies, one should then be able to give 50 per cent. of the salary as employee shares. And then some safeguards have been put in place against companies that are restructuring themselves, and there are also safeguards against passive investments in capital and other things. It is about entrepreneurship support, but the problem is that in many ways it is a regular tax reduction for the relevant employees in this. If you're a high-paid specialist, you're supposed to be max. pay 42 per cent. the value of the employee shares in the case of the employee shares which are taxed in this way. And that means saving tax in relation to receiving it as wage income. In other words, there will be more money, you can move from receiving as wage income to receiving them as employee shares, and then you will be freed from a lower tax on your wage income. The second proposal is about better conditions, as it says, for savings in UCITS. And there is the overall ambition, of course, that by bringing it under the profit margin tax rather than capital income tax, it can ensure a predominantly lower tax rate, because the low rate of profit tax is 27 per cent, while you often have a higher tax rate of 37 per cent. of capital income. It is, of course, a grip which again ensures that a lower tax is paid, and this time a lower tax on work-free incomes. From Enhedslisten's side, we do not think the problem is that work-free income, that is, income you get, is not by working, but that you get from securities, is too high. Of course, we think the problem is that it is too low when we talk about tax rates of 27 or 37; then it is tax rates that are much lower than what ordinary people pay for the salary that you get into the account every month. But if you have enough money and can invest them in securities, you'll already get rid of a lower tax, and this other element will make parts of the tax rate even lower. The latter is about what is called better conditions for attracting capital to Danish UCITS. When I look at the draft law, I have to admit that I think it is somewhat complex and one wonders whether it could not also open up some form of increased tax speculation. If one withdraws the main essence, it must be when the bill says: "It is proposed that foreign investors who invest in Danish investment companies or Danish UCITS with minimum taxation are exempt from Danish dividend tax. The exemption is proposed subject to the condition that the Danish investment firm or the Danish UCITS pays a minimum tax of 15%. of dividends that the investment firm, with the minimum tax, may receive from its investment in Danish shares. This means that foreign investors can invest in Denmark tax-free and that the tax bill takes the Danish UCITS. But why should foreign investors have this special benefit? It's a complex matter, but one may well be afraid, we think on the part of Enhedslisten, that this could open up more tax speculation. Overall, these are three proposals which cost a total of between 90 million. kr. and 100 million kr., and that is the usual picture of a bill that contains the usual consideration, pampering of speculators, moneymen, highly paid specialists, and we do not really think that we should spend 100 million. kr. a year to make life even nicer to speculators than this government has already done. In addition, there is funding for this too. Where's the money coming from, this 90-100 million? kr.? Well, they're coming, among other things. from cuts on DSB, they come from money from the so-called room for manoeuvre, which many parties in this Parliament have promised would go to welfare improvements, because some of this room for manoeuvre, among other things. have come from some of the many and massive deteriorations we have seen, for example. on cash benefits, early retirement and cash benefits. Now some of this money must also be spent in the business and entrepreneurial package, where part of it is also here. So it's going to be a negative statement from Enhedslisten, and I was going to say from SF and say that SF is also negatively disposed towards this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127175511	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127175519	Thank you for the floor, President. I'm not sick today, but I'm very proud and happy to be at the first reading of this bill, which is a very good bill, and I thought that even Enhedslisten would be in favour. Because this is really the wet dream of the Communists. For the Communists thought it was a central problem in the capitalist economy that there was a conflict, I think, between the owners of capital and the workers, between the exploiters and those who profited, as Marx described it. But this proposal once again strengthens the workers' ability to become co-owners of the companies in which they themselves work. So you will have an affiliation to the capital, and I cannot understand why anyone on the left can be opposed to that. At the same time, this proposal will ensure a fairer taxation of ETFs, which I think is extremely important. It's also a case I've been very involved in. So has the tax minister, and I think that is very positive. After all, the ETFs provide the opportunity for ordinary people to achieve a large spread of their investment and thus a lower risk to their investment without having to pay much for it. Overall, funds actively managed do not overperform the passive indices when spending is taken into account. It is therefore inappropriate to have a tax system which favours a number of actively managed funds. Basically, the left wing should also be able to see itself in this. If more people invest in ETFs, such as you. If you see it in the United States, there's less money for quick financiers in suits. The ETFs are one of the best ways to make equity investments for ordinary people without any particular insight into investments. And that is why we welcome the fact that more reasonable taxation conditions are being ensured. We wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127175742	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127175803	Thank you. Now I don't know if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen thinks I'm part of the left or the right, or where he puts me, and what he expects us to say about this. But no matter what, I can hear that he expects us to support it and that it is a good idea. I would first like to say that, overall, we may not be in favour of the proposal in its present form, but it is quite clear what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also emphasizes some positive aspects of it in relation to the second and third parts of the proposal, which equate various forms of investment. In the alternative, we consider this to be a good solution, both in terms of attracting foreign capital, but also in terms of putting movements across national borders on an equal footing. So we are actually in favour of that part from the outset, although there are, of course, some points to be taken into account from our point of view in relation to which part of the business community and the tax system we would like to promote. As has also been mentioned, it is perhaps mostly for the benefit of business, i.e. tax cuts to business, where we would actually rather have had lower personal taxes on work. So, overall, we would rather have lower taxes on labour and then a different form of taxation in the field of business. Among other things: After all, we have also proposed a tax on financial transactions, and we could then consider talking about this afterwards when we have treated it as equals here. But we are not going to interfere with this bill, and in this way we are positive about the two parts of the bill. Then there is the issue of employee shares, and this is really something that the alternative has suggested in the past, that is to say to raise the possibility of giving more employees shares as part of the salary. Here we may just think that we are going a little too far. Our proposal was 25%, so the issue of employee shares is actually part of the proposal which really fits well with our policy, but in which we cannot quite see ourselves here. So if you could divide up this proposal, it might be that we could be on the other parts. What we are thinking about in relation to employee shares is that there has to be some sort of balancing approach, also in relation to how the instrument is used to regulate wages and in relation to equality in the labour market, and that it is not used as an erosion instrument in relation to pay. I think it is good that the Danish People's Party focuses on the smaller companies here. The Social Democrats also mentioned something about it, and the discussion that is going on in that area will look forward to in committee work. I would just like to mention that, as far as I understand the draft law, it is not a matter of giving no more than 50 employee shares as wages, but it is a matter of exemption from income tax of up to 50%. As a company, therefore, you can give additional shares as a salary, but what we are talking about here is raising the limit on when it falls under income tax or share taxation. And we have to pay attention to that when we talk about it, I think. So, overall, we are positive about several parts of the bill, but we cannot accept it in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180151	Thank you. There are no brief comments and I would like to thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we are actually done with the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180211	I would like to thank you for receiving the draft law, which is generally positive. And also welcome to the new tax rapporteur from the Alternative. I will not take long to review the proposal, since it has already been done by a number of rapporteurs. But I would just like to comment briefly on a few points. I cannot see the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in this Chamber any longer, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is also ill, so that is fair enough, because illness cannot be helped. But I can confirm that, as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby said as an alternate for Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, namely that there is no discussion about the demarcation of this with employee shares. When we made the deal, we set a frame of 35 million. kr. of, but we couldn't agree on how to make the demarcation. We have then discussed this, and I have held many meetings and had a number of telephone conversations, and we have not succeeded in getting the parties to the agreement to agree. That is why I had to put forward legislative proposals so that we could have something that could be adopted by 1 January 2019 so that we can get started. That is why it stands out, and the compromise I have proposed, but for which I understand there is not entirely support, is then a turnover limit of 20 million. kr. And there I understand from the Danish People's Party that you would like to have it at 15 million. kr., and we have to sit down and discuss that. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur is no longer in the Chamber either, but I can say to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, thank you for the commitment of the Socialists to get involved in how the demarcation should be made. But all the time that they are not part of the agreement and are not involved in finding funding, it is so that even if you want to vote in favour of the proposal, it does not mean that you are invited in and can decide what the definition should be. It is done entirely, as normal contractual practice is, that it does the parties that have concluded the agreement, and it is the governing parties, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. And there we will find a sensible solution. But it may well be that that solution involves an amendment where it is not 20 million. DKK 15 million, but DKK 15 million. kr., and we have to find out. Then I would like to say something about the proposal in relation to ETFs. Now it was criticised by a number of tax rapporteurs up here, among others. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And when the government wants to promote the Official Journals, it is because it is a financial product with very low costs to the benefit of consumers. And it is also a product where you invest in an index stock, so you can say that instead of buying a share in Danske Bank, you buy a share that makes up a proportion of all the large shares, thus reducing your risk. And it is a product where, as a consumer, you pay less to those who sell shares, and it is banks, investment funds and other things, and then you have less risk. So it is a product that I think will make that more will dare move into investing in the stock market. And that is why this government wants to promote ETFs, and we do so with a more lenient yet still sensible tax. However, I will not spend any more time commenting on the speeches by the rapporteurs, who are no longer present in the Chamber either. It is also okay, time is advanced, there are other things on the agenda, and there is going to be a thorough examination ■ we always have that in the Tax Committee ■ of our proposal. But I am grateful for the expression of opinion that has been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180613	Thank you to the Minister, there are no brief comments. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180707	The debate is open and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180729	Thank you. I shall be very brief and say that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180734	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127180751	Thank you. I think I will be a little less brief than the Social Democrat rapporteur, because this is, after all, an important issue before us today. The Minister of Justice has asked the Danish Parliament to decide whether Denmark should accede to three Schengen-related regulations on an intergovernmental basis. These are the law enforcement regulation, the border management regulation and the return regulation. Common to the three amended regulations is that they ensure better use of the opportunities offered by the Schengen Information System. For example: it is made compulsory to register third-country nationals who are equipped with an entry ban; access is established to store information on finger and handprints from unknowns suspected of serious crime; and children at risk of being abducted by a parent can now also be entered into the SIS. Basically, as you know, the Danish People's Party is opposed to Schengen. However, this is not linked to the possibility of exchanging information under the SIS, but to the ambition of a frontier-free Europe in which Member States cannot maintain border controls against each other without the Commission's consent. As you know, the future basis for Schengen's construction is being discussed during these months. It is the wish of the Danish People's Party to maintain the exchange of information, which these three regulations also express, but without having to give up border controls within the Schengen area, which is a great advantage for Denmark. Since the introduction of border controls between Denmark and Germany, more than 6,500 people have been refused entry to Denmark. On the contrary, the value of data such as those referred to in the regulations is increased by the fact that there are border controls at several borders between Member States. The likelihood of a third-country national declared undesirable in the Schengen area being apprehended is greater if he is to pass not just one border control but several during his or her journey in Europe. The same applies to unknown persons whose fingerprints or handprints are stored in SIS as a result of their suspicion of serious crime. These people will also be potentially apprehended by checks between the Schengen countries. Nor will the Danish People's Party fail to point out that there are matters in the regulations that could be improved, as we have also pointed out in the Committee on European Affairs. For example, the retention of data on persons on a maximum of 3 years is very low, especially when it is considered that items can be stored for 10 years. If, for example, a person has been expelled from the Schengen area because he or she is deemed to be a danger to citizens, then it is not wise for data on him or her to be deleted after three years. It is also problematic that data on third-country nationals who have acquired the nationality of a Schengen country should be deleted. It can, for example, be done. They are persons who are considered to be a threat to the security of the empire but who, under the status of stateless persons, nevertheless become nationals of Denmark or of another EU country. In conclusion, however, it is the view of the Danish People's Party that the three regulations in which Denmark is to participate at intergovernmental level and which Denmark thus has the opportunity to denounce again, if we wish to do so, are a step forward in the police and immigration authorities' ability to apprehend unwanted foreigners, investigate serious crime and combat terrorism. In this context, we will be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181112	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Gundelach. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181123	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party on this occasion. It is so that for smaller parties it can be difficult to participate in everything that is going on at Christiansborg. That is the background to this greeting. Thank you for the floor. Denmark and the EU face major security and immigration challenges. This applies to everything from cross-border crime, terrorist threats, pressure from illegal immigrants, etc. These are challenges that require international cooperation and that are best addressed at EU level. Unfortunately, we in Denmark are also facing another challenge, and that is that we have a legal reservation. It is a reservation which means that we are not automatically part of the European agreements dealing with legal matters and a reservation which means that Denmark does not have an influence on the shape of the rules, since we do not participate in the discussions in question. This applies, among other things, to: the most recent agreement on the SIS regulations, which is an abbreviation for the Schengen Information System. These are electronic databases in which the authorities of the respective Schengen countries can provide alerts on persons and objects. The database is an incredibly important tool in the fight against cross-border crime and illegal immigration. It is a tool of great benefit to police, customs and courts, and only criminals can oppose it. With the adoption of the resolution today, despite our legal reservations, we will have the opportunity to join the extended Schengen Information System, on which the other EU countries agree. In future, return decisions must be reported, children in danger of being abducted, fingerprints found at a crime scene for a serious crime and about entry bans. The extension of the Schengen Information System means that Danish authorities will be given even better conditions to combat and prevent cross-border crime, terrorism and illegal immigration. In the Left, we are very concerned about solving the security and immigration challenges that Denmark and the European Union face, and therefore we can warmly endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181346	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181353	I am not going to say so much about this resolution, just that we in the Enhedslist have some concerns about the proposal. First of all, this is about access to several types of data that the authorities can collect. This is among other things. facial recognition and DNA registration. We are very concerned about this because we fear that it means further monitoring of citizens. Secondly, we are concerned that the authorities, more than they can today, can share this information, because again we fear that it will mean greater interference with the right to privacy and greater surveillance. Conversely, on this proposal, it can be said that it will make it easier for citizens both to leave and to enter because this easier access is given. So it's like balancing the two things. Finally, I can just say that there are some things in this proposal that we in the Enhedslist need to clarify. We will send some questions to the Minister through the Committee on European Affairs. Then it is also our clear view that if we say no to this, it will have quite a major impact on intergovernmental cooperation in this area. That is why we will not vote against it, but we are not entirely in favour of it either, so we will probably end up voting yellow. However, as I have said, we will pass on some questions to the Minister, and then we will see if there can be any clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181552	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And this is sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181601	Thank you for that, President. The three SIS regulations will extend and improve the use of the SIS system by introducing several types of alerts into the system, inter alia: return decisions, reports on children in danger of being abducted by parents, and unknown perpetrators of serious crimes. After all, this is all a good thing, that is to say, we are strengthening the control of the external borders of the European Union and the control within the Schengen area. That is why we support the motion for a resolution. I would also like to welcome our mother party, the Radical Left, and say that they also support B 32.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181651	Thank you very much. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is for the alternative rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181702	Thank you. You could make it as short as the Social Democrats did. What we are dealing with here are, after all, some things that we need to join in order to be part of Schengen. And that is why it probably also highlights the challenges that we sometimes face because of the reservations, because we do not, as we do, share in influencing, among other things. important things like this in the direction we want. Because there are plenty of things you could point your finger at and say: this is really critical. I have some of the same concerns as Enhedslisten had in relation to increased monitoring of all that data, etc. All in all, however, this is something that we must be involved in when we are in Schengen cooperation. However, I have a question for the Minister. When you get a resolution with so many x's, it is usually because the regulations are not necessarily finished and completely finished in the negotiations between the Council, Parliament and the Commission etc. Therefore, I have a question: why is it actually at this stage that we have to do this here instead of when we have the final regulations? We have discussed this in the past in relation to some other regulations, which also had to go through with a motion for a resolution before they were actually in front of them and could relate to them. And I think that is a little something that we should discuss again, i.e. whether it is really necessary. We have six months, from their adoption, for us to join them. And there I think that proper treatment of it would be that we were actually sitting with the final regulations in front of us in order to be able to do so. But all in all, it is a bottom-up task to be involved in this if you want to be part of Schengen cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181830	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127181836	The security and migration challenges facing Europe, including the terrorist threat, require effective control of who enters the Schengen area, as well as effective tools for preventing and investigating cross-border crime. This is a necessary prerequisite if we are to have a Europe without internal border controls. The three regulations we are discussing today offer new opportunities in several areas for exchanging information, both in relation to border controls, investigations and the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. The new possibilities help to streamline and extend the use of the Schengen Information System, which is an essential condition for the functioning of Schengen cooperation, for example. gives the system new opportunities to quickly sound the alarm if a so-called foreign warrior enters Schengen. We believe that the regulations establishing the operation and use of the Schengen Information System in the fields of entry and exit controls, as well as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, will help to combat terrorism, organised crime and cross-border crime. That is why the SF supports the proposal. So far, there has been no EU system for sharing decisions on the return of third-country nationals or for monitoring its implementation, and we believe that it is more important to have a framework for return. The system that we are now facing has some challenges, among others. on the sharing of information with third countries, but it is better with a system that is now being put in place and we can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182018	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's line and then we give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182028	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving the motion for a resolution. As you know, it is intended to obtain the consent of the Danish Parliament, under Article 19 of the Constitution, for the government to agree on behalf of Denmark to the three regulations relating to the so-called Schengen Information System, also called SIS. As a result of the legal reservation, the three SIS Regulations are not binding on and do not apply in Denmark. However, the regulations are an extension of the Schengen acquis, and Denmark must therefore decide, within 6 months of the adoption of the regulation, whether we want to implement it with Danish law on an intergovernmental basis. If the motion for a resolution is supported here in the Folketing, the government will inform the Council that Denmark will implement the regulations in Danish law. The three SIS regulations are quite technical, and there are many technical details and aspects of the regulations which can certainly give rise to many questions, and I am also looking forward to that being answered in more detail during committee reading. As you know, the SIS system is a common information system set up within the framework of Schengen cooperation, which provides, among other things, for: immigration and police authorities in the EU and the associated Schengen countries have access to electronically entering and searching data on alerts on persons and objects. The SIS system also contains clear instructions to the competent authorities on what to do when the person or object is found. The SIS system is of particular importance in the context of border controls. The three SIS regulations add several new types of alerts to be entered into the SIS, including those relating in particular to: on alerts on return decisions, preventive alerts on children at risk of being abducted by a parent, and alerts on unknown perpetrators whose fingerprints have been found at a crime scene for a serious crime. In addition, it is made compulsory to report entry bans in SIS. Furthermore, it is proposed that several types of data should be able to be entered into SIS, including palm prints, facial images and DNA profiles. Finally, more authorities will have access to SIS. The three proposals for regulations on SIS must be seen in the context of two other new EU treaties on the Schengen area: firstly, the creation of a common immigration and exit system, called the EES; and secondly, the creation of the so-called ETIAS system, which will allow for ex ante controls and, if necessary, the possibility of refusing visa-free third-country nationals entry into Schengen. As you know, before the summer recess, the Folketing agreed that the Government, on behalf of Denmark, can agree to these two acts on an intergovernmental basis, which is also an extension of the Schengen acquis. That is why I also hope that Parliament will give its support to this motion for a resolution. The government is positive about the three SIS regulations which, as I said, will extend and improve the use of the SIS system. Strong control of our external borders is extremely important, because it is essential for the proper functioning of the Schengen area. The security and migration challenges facing the European Union today, including the terrorist threat to Denmark and Europe, require effective control of who enters the Schengen area and effective tools to prevent and investigate cross-border crime. It is therefore appropriate that the three SIS regulations be implemented in Danish law. The government will return to this at a later stage after the examination of this motion for a resolution and before the start of the new functions of SIS, where the government will table a legislative proposal on the necessary adaptations to the Act of Accession of Denmark to the Schengen Convention and the Aliens Act. Before I fully thank you for receiving the motion for a resolution, I might as well immediately, because I can see that I have the floor for that, answer the question to which Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist travelled in connection with his speech, namely why it says X's. It is the case that the three regulations have just been adopted. The three regulations were adopted on 19 November, which is why they have not yet received an official number, which is why they are referred to in the motion for a resolution as X's.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182437	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and that is from Mr Tugendhat. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182442	Thank you, and thank you for the answer to that question. Does the Minister not think that, overall, if it is that we should take a real and proper position on it now, as I have expressed our overall position on the proposal, then it is very useful that we have the regional regulations that we can look at and that we therefore wait until they have the official number, which is also there that the six months go on in relation to Denmark's accession? So why the haste to do so, so we have a motion for a resolution now that it says no. XXX/XXX it says three times followed by dd/mm/yyyy? It is a pity that we are not really dealing with this in more depth, because these are rather far-reaching regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182527	Yeah, I can understand that. That is also why we can have time to ask these questions during the committee procedure. The reason why the motion for a resolution has been tabled where the regulations were not adopted is that they are now, but at the time of submission they were not, after all, the fact that we have only six months to indicate whether we are going to implement the regulations. That is why the motion for a resolution has been tabled in this session in order to be able to meet the deadline. I understand the point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182607	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Apostates. Then there are no further brief comments, thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182637	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182647	Time and again we see cases in which people who do their job in the public service or in the public service are subjected to harassment, threats or vandalism. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. That is why we were involved in a political agreement with the government, the Danish People's Party, the alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, which tightens the penalties for harassment, threats and vandalism against people in the public service. This bill aims to implement the initiatives that we agreed on. The punishment will include harassment, threats and vandalism against all civil servants, for example: local politicians and staff of police, municipalities and regions. The penalty for threats and harassment of persons in public office shall be increased by one third. Today, the criminal code does not provide for an independent provision that it is considered a punishing circumstance that vandalism is committed against a thing belonging to persons in public service or office. We are introducing that now. At the same time, we are also tightening up the penalties for vandalism committed against things belonging to people in public service or office. With this proposal, we will send out a clear signal that it is totally unacceptable that police officers, municipal officials, local politicians and other public servants should be subjected to harassment, threats and vandalism just because they are doing their job. Against this background, I must inform you that the Socialists naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182759	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127182813	The draft law L 94 is the implementation of an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party have concluded with the government, the Social Democracy, the Alternative, Radical and SF. The proposal, in all its simplicity, is that in the future people who threaten their public office or are in the service of the public will have to be put down much harder. It could be police officers, prison officers, schoolteachers, local politicians or someone else. As part of the agreement, the penalty for these crimes is going to increase by a third. The Attorney General has reviewed the current level of punishment and found that the typical level of punishment for first-time cases is, on average, between 10 and 60 days of unconditional imprisonment. Here you're going to add a third, and that's really, really fine. Allow me to say that the penalty for this type of crime is far higher: eight years. So we're going through the very bottom of the penal framework. It is therefore also gratifying that we are now being added to the level. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party naturally stand by the agreements we have made, which is why we will of course vote in favour of the bill. However, in the long term, we need to have looked again at how we use our criminal sanctions most optimally, so that we ensure that people who are clearly violating the rules are severely and cashly punished. A threat in itself is unacceptable, but a threat to a person working in the public service is quite unforgivable and there must never be any doubt that, overall, very hard action must be taken. For me, it is not only a question of supporting our staff, it is also a question of defending Denmark and the way we have built up our society. Then there is a proposal to increase the penalty for harassing the same group of people, and here it is proposed to increase the fine from DKK 7,500. in the first case to 10,000 DKK. We are, of course, fully in favour of this. The proposal also emphasises that the level has been followed up by the courts and is typically at the level decided in 2016, when a majority of the Folketing, including the Danish People's Party, adopted the respect package. Last but not least, it is made a punishment for vandalism if the crime is committed against a person who is in public service or in public service, and it is for us to see a perfectly natural step that we can also support. Some of it, I would say, very clearly positive, which the former Left Government helped to implement, was the respect package. We see the new agreement and the bill here as a coinage to it as a natural superstructure to the work that was done at that time. When the rules have worked for some time, it will be natural for us to see it all through again to see if it is going through. Because, of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. But all in all, the Danish People's Party can of course support the bill. We think that this is an important proposal, which is therefore intended to reduce the totally unacceptable behaviour when someone threatens our staff at work or threatens our local politicians. It's not gonna work, and it's gonna have to be fought down. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183118	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183126	Thank you. The former Left Government, as my colleague has just said, implemented what is popularly referred to as the respect package, and it is enough in the light of it that we should see today's legislative proposal. According to this, it is clear once again that we will not accept threats, that we will not accept harassment, that we will not accept vandalism against public servants and the property of public servants, and we are trying to mark this with the proposal here. As has been mentioned, the penalty for threats is increased by one third. So, anyone who has had 30 days in the past will have 40 days in future, but I cannot help but confirm what my colleague from the Danish People's Party has just said: it is a matter in a Danish system that we have, what should we say, extremely high penalties. I cannot say whether they are too high, but they are at least large, and at the same time we usually never operate more than half. Most often, it's max. down about a third of what the penalty is. This is something we will have to look at over time here in the Folketing, there is no doubt about it at all. However, in relation to today's proposal, the penalty for threats is increasing by one third. Also for harassment, we add one third to the penalty, most often the penalty, DKK 7,500. becomes 10,000 kroner. Finally, there is the provision that the penalty for vandalism should also be increased by one third. It's a little hard to put, if I may say so, appreciate it, because it depends a little on how much you've ruined. In the case of vandalism against public servants, we could consider ensuring that there is access to wage restraint. At any rate, these are some thoughts that the Ministry of Justice has carried out in relation to theft. Because it has to be said that it is very good that the civil servant is sentenced to pay the damage for vandalism, but it does not help very much if the vandalist does not have any assets, and there one could at least consider that we can look at it during the committee procedure. The proposal stems from the political agreement of May 2018 on a penalty for these things, and this is not only true, if I may say so, of rural politicians, but indeed also of local politicians, whom we have heard terrible stories about in this direction. The Left can support the proposal one hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183409	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183416	Thank you. After all, this is a bill based on an agreement concluded by all the parties of the Folketing, except the Enhedslisten. So there is little doubt as to the direction in which this bill is going. I'm sure that's gonna be adopted. In the Enhedslisten, we think that there are very good reasons for protecting people in public service or office, whether they are police officers, MPs, bus drivers, club teachers or city council members. They do a job on behalf of the voters and taxpayers, they work for us all, so of course they must be protected. But we've been standing here before. Two years ago, we dealt with the so-called'respect package', which also tightened the penalties for threats and harassment against people in the public service, and it was adopted, however, by a less broad majority than the one behind this bill. So the penalties were that there are two possible conclusions on: either the Folketing did not tighten up the penalties enough two years ago, or sharpened penalties do not make threats, harassment and vandalism disappear. If the first is the case, the eight parties behind this proposal have made the right decision by turning the penalties back up again. Nevertheless, allow me to stop for a moment and consider whether we could do something else to prevent so many people threatening, harassing or committing vandalism against civil servants and politicians. Could we, for example, do this? create a society with less difference between rich and poor? Could we create a structure where there is a shorter path from the citizen to the authorities of the City Hall or Slotsholmen, setting the framework for the lives of the citizens? Could we work towards a culture where there is less mistrust of the authorities? Could we do more to help people who have been guilty of threats, harassment or vandalism so that they learn to control their temper? Could we combat more effectively the abuse of alcohol and drugs, which sometimes cause people to react agitatedly and violently? Yeah, I think we could. Following this, I would add that when you ask the nurses, the midwives and the social workers, they say that what they want to get rid of harassment and threats are more colleagues, so they have time to talk to the citizens so that they have time to rectify, to clear up misunderstandings that could be with the citizen. I think we should listen to that wish in here. I think we owe the civil servants more colleagues. We do so for many reasons, but one of the reasons is that there will then be better dialogue and communication between employees and citizens. That said, we lack basic evidence in the Enhedslisten that 40 days in jail for threats under section 119 of the Penal Code. 1, instead of, as now, 30 days in prison itself will act as a deterrent. It is possible that the eight parties behind this bill, including the Radicals, the Alternative and the SF, who voted against the legal package in 2016, believe that sharpened penalties help in this area. But have we seen evidence of this? I haven't. So if anyone has, I think it would be nice if it could be presented. People working in the public service already enjoy protection in the form of severe penalties for threats and harassment, not least after the adoption of the respect package in 2016. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the time has come to look at tools other than punishment when we continue our important work in preventing threats, harassment and vandalism against civil servants and politicians. So it is not because we do not want to protect either politicians or public servants that we do not support this bill, but it is because we do not think it is the right way, and that is why we are voting yellow for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183839	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183843	Thank you. I just want to ask Enhedslisten something. Because now I could hear that Enhedslisten's rapporteur speaks this way on behalf of all public servants and that the solution is then several colleagues. What about local politicians being threatened? Is that the solution, that is, some major city councils or something? Is this the solution to the threats which have been documented and where there is an increase in relation to local politicians who are being seriously and quite often threatened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183906	I fully agree that it is very, very serious when politicians, whether we are in here or politicians in the city councils, are threatened. I just don't think it's going to stop the threats, that we're doing more severe penalties. I think it's some other thing that can stop the threats. I believe, for example, that it is if we are working towards creating a culture where there is a shorter path from citizen to politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183931	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183932	The distance that makes you threatened as a local politician. Well, I think Enhedslisten should take it a little more seriously. Because if nothing happens, it is also that you lose interest in engaging in local politics, where you also often have a job next door. So I'm thinking that Enhedslisten must come up with something better than this, which I think is missing something concrete in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127183954	I do not know whether it is the distance that does so, but I do believe that part of the reason why we see an increase in threats is that there is an extremely high degree of distrust of our system. I think perhaps more that the Social Democratic Party should provide evidence of why 40 days in prison should discourage people from threatening. That's what we need to see. I'm saying I don't think more severe penalties are going to stop these threats. I take it very seriously, and we do so in the Enhedslisten, but we do not believe that stricter penalties will stop the threats. It's something else that needs to be done. And one of the things that I think needs to be done is to change culture so that there is greater confidence in the system instead of the distrust we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184033	Yes, sir. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184035	It sounds a little like it's all society's fault. It is the evil society that causes citizens to be squeezed out into a situation where they are just going to threaten someone. I think I would strongly reject that picture, because that is not the case. When Enhedslisten says that they will represent the ordinary working people, our employees, those who are our frontline staff, that is, the first wave that meets the citizens, one must of course also strike down the people who threaten our employees' everyday lives and our security. That is where I think Enhedslisten's rapporteur gets away from what it is rather than what it wants. What to do about people who threaten our police officers or threaten their children or make the prison officers insecure and afraid to go to work or who are hard on our staff out at the job centres, for example. If you can't punish them, if you can't say clearly, what's Enhedslisten's mix on how to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184135	Well, that is what the public employees themselves are pointing out, more colleagues, so that a good dialogue can be established so that safety at work can be created. I think that the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Kofod should acknowledge that both in the Department of Criminal Services, in the job centres, in the hospitals they are enormously pressured and run extremely hard, and therefore there is no time for dialogue with the citizen, such as the European Parliament. may be an addict or be in a vulnerable situation or other that makes them difficult to control their temper • the dialogue could have stopped many threats. At least that's what the public employees themselves say. There is no time for that dialogue, but that is the way I think we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184216	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184218	I agree that we need to have more prison officers, and we are working hard on that, and I also believe that we need far more police officers, and we are working hard on that too. So at some point, when the Danish People's Party comes to terms with this and we get some more police officers and prison officers, if you are to believe the logic of Enhedslisten, we will see that the figures for violence and threats to these professional groups will rustle down. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? I do not think that is the way the picture will appear, because there will still be people who threaten our civil servants, our good cops when they go to work. I think it is harmful if we do not send out a very clear, clear signal from the Danish Parliament that we will not accept this behaviour; we are on the side of our employees, and we strongly reject such threats, and we want these people who do so to be severely punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184307	That's correct, sir. Peter Kofod, and I think that the Danish People's Party should have a talk with e.g.. The prison association, which organises the prison officers, who so much demand more colleagues and so much say that some of the things that can stop some of the threats they receive every day, and which, in my view, I agree with the Danish People's Party, are totally unacceptable, are, as the prison officers themselves say, if they had some more colleagues. Well, then that's it, sir. Peter Kofod, that it is a criminal offence today, and I say that I see no evidence that it will stop the threats if you raise the penalty further, as the Danish People's Party wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184345	Thank you for that, and there will be no further brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184355	Well, following on from what the previous rapporteur says, it is always an exciting discussion about whether more punishment stops criminal acts. I think there is a great deal of theorizing about this, and one can of course also ask oneself what one thinks is fair to those people who take on a job in the service of the Community. With this bill, we are increasing the penalty for precisely threatening and harassing people in public service or public office by a third, and it is basically about ensuring respect for our authorities and the community's employees, who stand out in the front line. It is about the fact that we will not tolerate the violence, harassment, threats or vandalism of people in public service. These are people who go to work for our sake, for the sake of the community, who take responsibility in the service of democracy, and we must, of course, take care of them. I think that is both fundamental and quite banal, and the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184505	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. We move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, Mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184511	In the alternative, we ourselves have been involved in the agreement and nodded to the bill here. It is a general discussion among us, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has just said, whether punishment actually benefits in terms of fewer crimes of one kind or another, and in many cases in the alternative we are rather sceptical about whether punishment necessarily works. We are very much in favour of the preventive approach, I think there are many parties who do, but we are doing it to an extraordinary extent and information, to see if, just as Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, we can counter it by perhaps making our institutions even better, so that fewer people become desperate or aggressive because there is something they do not understand or cannot get through. However, we think that there is actually a good symbol in this, and sometimes symbol politics can actually be quite sensible. I do not think the whole proposal is symbolic policy, but I have not seen data that this is actually going in and ensuring that there are fewer threats coming. But I think we need to show once and for all that we do not accept the threat of public servants or politicians. I myself am new to politics, and I would say that the first times I got a threat, I thought: Ah, what should I do; I do not want to do anything about that. But those who are really vulnerable in this area, those who go out with attitudes that one might disagree with so much, and who get people very much out of the chairs, are simply faced with a massive mental assault every day. This applies to many of my colleagues from in here, ministers in particular, and we simply cannot tolerate it as democracy. Locally, it also takes place. If you are a city council politician, you have almost got a say in politics and a voice locally, half the city against you and half the city with you. You can choose to say yes to that, and there are many who do, but I also think that, just as we must send out a clear signal to those who sit at the front of the desk in the job centre or in the municipality or who have to be responsible in a primary school class, if something happens to the confidence of those who have to deal with the things we decide in parliament in a proper way, and if a mistrust is simply built up that is so far away from how it should be in a system like Denmark. Here we do it with increased punishment. I don't know if it's gonna work. We can expect some people to be discouraged. That is certainly a clear signal. Finally, I would like to send such a pious wish to all those who sit and watch at home, because sometimes we talk about politicians and everything else. It may be a little dangerous to say, but if we do not behave properly, then the electorate will eventually emerge. So you start to think about what you really want with democracy. You really want to get involved, or you just want to sit around and complain. So if we take responsibility for ourselves in here in the Folketing and the media do the same and the voters do the same, hopefully we can get to where one day you promise on the hat when a politician passes by regardless of party color because they do a good job for democracy. And this may be some of the things that help us there, just as it was with the schoolteacher in the old days and the nurse and all sorts of others who once sat in an institution and had a place where you didn't question whether they did anything good and not disqualified them just because they were public employees. So I think this is a good symbol, and hopefully it also has an effect in real life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184829	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. I see no one from the Radical Left, so we move on to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184838	Society must protect people who are in public service. We must not succeed in denouncing or frightening people who take the edge of the community. Higher penalties cannot stand alone, but it can be one of several tools that protect public employees or elected representatives of the people. The SF may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184900	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184910	I am not going to repeat what my fellow Members have said in the past, but I would just like to emphasise that we Conservatives are very, very opposed to public servants being police officers, nurses, doctors, prison officers, social workers being harassed and threatened, just as municipal politicians do. That's why this is a bill that we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184940	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127184951	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the most positive contributions we have heard. It is very important that we cherish our common institutions and authorities... they are absolutely fundamental to our society. This is particularly true of the front-line staff who go to work every day for the sake of the community; it is precisely this front-line staff on whom the bill focuses. As you know, a broad political agreement was reached earlier this year between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party on punishments for threats, harassment and vandalism against people in public service or office. The bill we are discussing here today implements the political agreement. The aim of the draft law is therefore precisely to tighten up the penalties in these areas. It is, of course, quite unacceptable that public servants should be subjected to such abuses just because they are doing their job. It is far above the limit if a person, for example. threatens a local politician on Facebook just because the person disagrees with the local politician's views. This also applies when a police officer who works in gang crime is cared for and threatened by a gang member, or when the social worker is persecuted on his way to and from work by a disgruntled citizen. With the bill we stress that as a society we will not tolerate public employees being threatened, harassed or experiencing vandalism just because they go to work for the sake of the community. With those comments, I should like to thank you for your speeches and I look forward to the further discussion in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185127	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185152	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185159	The bill we are discussing today may be more topical than ever. Foreign influence operations pose an increasing threat to Denmark, especially now that we are about to have both parliamentary elections and elections to the European Parliament. We have seen that impact operations have been an increasing challenge, among others. in connection with the US presidential elections. But here in Europe, too, we have seen attempts at foreign influence in connection with elections. The purpose of this bill is to strengthen the criminal protection against foreign attempts to influence Denmark. The proposal provides for clarification in the legislation which makes it clear that helping or enabling a foreign intelligence service to operate within the territory of the Danish State is a criminal offence. At the same time, the punishment will be increased if illegal acts of influence are carried out in connection with a parliamentary election or elections to the European Parliament. The penalty framework will thus be imprisoned for up to 12 years in certain cases. We are in favour of the proposal as a starting point, but we have, of course, read the consultation answers and will then ask some questions in committee. We are therefore looking forward to further discussions during the committee procedure, because this is a threat that we need to take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185305	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185311	Let me start by saying that of course no one should provide misleading information in the public debate. That is something to refrain from. With this bill, we are dealing with a change in section 108 of the Penal Code. The proposal comes as a result of the Minister of Justice's desire for stronger action against foreign intelligence services. In the current section 108, it is criminalised to help or enable a foreign intelligence service to operate within the territory of the Danish State. And I think it is important to make it clear that espionage, that is, what falls under section 107, is quite clear. So here it is all about what falls outside Article 107. With the proposal, the government seeks support to establish that it is also impact operations that should be covered by § 108. And what does that mean, and what does it come from? In the comments to the proposal, the Government mentions that it is primarily a question of addressing an increasing threat to Denmark. Examples are the US presidential elections and unnamed European elections, and Russia is mentioned several times in the draft law's comments. Nevertheless, if you are to believe Berlingske from Saturday last week, the government has not been able to find a single example of what you want to counter with the bill on Danish soil. The comments also show that the Ministry of Justice has expressed: • that, in the case of propaganda-forming activities, it should be expected that the courts would make a very specific assessment on a case-by-case basis, in particular, that the company would, after an overall assessment of the type of cooperation, the determination and degree of dependence between the parties would have been clearly driven with the general aim of enabling the foreign intelligence service to pursue its objectives, so that the assistance would be clearly different from what can only reasonably be described as a normal activity as a journalist or writer in this country. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice stressed that, for the sake of freedom of expression and because other means could often be sufficient, only its power of indictment would be exercised with the utmost care. It happened after an indictment of 1982. And I agree with the Ministry that other instruments will probably work better in a very, very large number of cases. I believe that having a population that is awake, enlightened, critical of authorities and various sources on the Internet is the best thing. On the other hand, I do not believe that it is necessarily legislation that is the most effective protection. I think it is more about debate. If we openly spread things that are wrong, misleading and in the interests of a foreign intelligence service, we should rather be shown, mocked, ridiculed in order to be fooled by others and try to spread positions that may be wrong in the public debate. The popular condemnation and outrage of cooperation with a foreign service will be much more behavior-regulating than a punishment, especially because the proposal here, if implemented, is also aimed at decision-makers, that is to say us, and people who must be said to be well placed to be able to spread a message far out. It will therefore require a good opportunity to spread messages, and I believe that it will be disastrous for a member of parliament, for example, to use ourselves as an example if it could be demonstrated that people were working for the interests of a foreign country. For as a member of parliament in Denmark one should of course think of Denmark first and be fully loyal to Denmark and the Danes. I think we should be careful that we are not going to legislate in panic because of an election in the United States. Denmark is a small country, we have a wide awake population, we have a awake press, which I am sure will love • will love to put people, especially us, on the front pages if it can be documented that in some way in the public debate you may be erranded by foreign intelligence services. If that ever happens, what I obviously do not hope, it will in fact be a much stronger safeguard with public condemnation and reproach and the public debate, and it will bring attention to the issue. If you really want to do something very effective with regard to misinformation on social media I don't know if it's possible... you could do something about all the pages and profiles of the world where there is no clear indication of a real identity in charge. There is really talk of spreading information free of charge. Misinformation and false news are what used to be called rumors and gossip. The most effective way to combat it is not necessarily to sharpen penalties and create panic. I believe that public debate is much healthier. If you take the historical parallel to the Cold War, I really think it is quite clear that our Danish system was well-armed against communism. Crazy people on the extreme left, who for years supported one of the world's most hostile systems on the wrong side of the Wall, were not overcome by punishment. They were overcome by facts and a people who would rather have the systems of the free world rather than Communism's oppression. And now I can see from the President-in-Office that I should like to say thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185849	That's right. And thank you for that. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127185905	Thank you. In the penal code we already have a provision on espionage; that is section 107. And it has something to do with helping with information for some foreign intelligence agency. If you do that, you're guilty of espionage. It's 16 years in jail that's the punishment there. But we also have a section 108 which today speaks of the fact that if you do something that enables some to operate or help them to operate directly or indirectly within the territory of the Danish State, i.e. if you enable a foreign intelligence service to operate in Danish territory, then it is also punishable by a normal penalty of six years in prison. It is this section 108, i.e. the last provision, not the espionage clause, but the one that speaks of someone being helped to work. We are discussing today with an extension. It is not really an extension, because I believe that what we are discussing would be included in the rule today. However, in the interests of safety, we shall in any case specify how the concept should be understood, just as the text of the draft law says. An addition shall be made, which shall include cooperation to engage in influence activities with a view to influencing decision-making or general opinion-making. In any case, we ensure how Article 108 should be understood, so that cooperation with a foreign intelligence service on these matters is enough for one to be punished. And I have to say that this clarification can be fully endorsed by the Left. It is important in this connection to stress that we are not in the process of imposing any censorship or the like. In any case, we in the Left stress that it is also in the proposal which has been corrected after the hearing that it is assumed that there is cooperation with a foreign intelligence service. And it's pretty important. In other words, sharing a message on the social media is not in itself a criminal offence; one must enter and have, if I may say so, engaged in proper cooperation with the intelligence service in another country. So we are not criminalising the voices, we are criminalising the cooperation. In addition to that, we will sharpen the penalty for anyone who may have been guilty of it in connection with a parliamentary election or an EU election to be up to 12 years in prison. The Left can support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190151	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then we have reached Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190201	Thank you. I think the previous rapporteurs have explained very well what the draft law is about. Then I'll say something that I rarely do down here, and that's that, sir. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party made a very good point, namely the point that we do not know how big the threat is. I therefore agree with the government that it can have free and democratic elections in Denmark. That is why I am a little worried about the nature of the draft law, which means that you go in and make a penalty framework that is so high and, on the one hand, go in and sharpen these things. I am simply unsure whether the threat is there. We haven't seen any examples of this in Denmark, which is why I'm a little sceptical about this bill. I think it's like you take your grief a little in advance. Then we in the Enhedslist, like so many others, are very concerned about whether this bill means a reduction in the debate and a reduction in freedom of expression. There I must also do something else which I rarely do down here, namely to praise the Minister for Justice for listening to the hearings and inciting the bill. I think that really is a step in the right direction, both that the draft law has been drafted, but also that the consultation answers have been taken very seriously. I think that is really, really positive. We have some concerns which are very similar to those mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, and that is why we will also be asking questions in committee. At this stage, at least we cannot support the legislative proposal as it stands. I therefore believe that the way to avoid fake news and so on. is that we have a critical, educated population that is critical of the news they receive and that we have a good democratic debate. As things stand now, we certainly cannot support the draft law, but we are looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190453	Thank you very much. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190458	Well it's just in relation to Enhedslisten's remarks that there are not really any examples of it and that the government has not provided examples where it should apply etc. The Enhedslisten is absolutely right about that. But I would just like to ask: does the Enhedslisten not recognise that there may be such a general-preventive consideration? Is it always necessary to prove that there have been incidents? Because I think that if we take the criminal code in general, or at least chapter 12 of the criminal code here on crimes against state independence and security, I can guarantee that the rules in question that it contains have hardly been applied in the last 50 years, should we lift them? In other words, does the Enhedslisten not recognise that one can have legislation whose purpose is to have such a general preventive effect for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190549	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190552	Yes, I certainly recognise that this may be what one might also call due diligence, in other words making sure that this is punishable before it happens. I fully acknowledge that. I'm just not sure this bill is the solution. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we would really like to make an effort in committee to think of something else or what to say. I am simply not sure that this is the solution, but I fully acknowledge that there may be a threat picture. I also said at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech that I understand what can be said about where the bill comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190628	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190637	Thank you, President. It seems as if the government is putting its grief ahead, said the previous rapporteur, and I am really glad we have a government that does. The previous rapporteur also said something else which is not true, namely that we do not really have any examples of the threat that we are trying to prevent being realized here. In fact, there are examples of this. There are examples of the holding of a democratic election in the United States, which was tried by foreign powers; there are examples of attempts to influence a democratic presidential election in France; there are indications of an attempt to influence a referendum in Britain. So, even if that is true, and I hope that Mrs Rosa Lund is right in saying that we do not have concrete examples of it in Denmark, does that mean that we should then just act as nothing and cross our fingers and hope that no one is trying to influence the democratic elections we are going to have in this country next year? Well, you could, but frankly, I think that's such a little laissez-faire attitude towards democracy. Because this is basically about democracy and people's rule. We live in a democracy and we are part of the people's regime. However, in my view, a real democracy and a real government of the people are not just about having a democratic constitution and holding an election where people go and cross. It is also about the fact that there are prerequisites for a strong democracy. It's about freedom of expression, it's about a press activity that's free of censorship. It is about all the frameworks that need to be established before you actually have a free expression of opinion in a democracy. We have that in Denmark. We have been safeguarding this since we had the first democratic constitution, and we must continue to uphold it. Now there are just indications that countries similar to us, which are also democracies, which are also genuine democracies, and where all the conditions that I have just outlined are actually there, are under threat. So, of course, we must safeguard freedom of opinion. When we can see that there are potential forces that would like to interfere in a free, enlightened, open and democratic election, we must of course take action, and that is what we are doing with this legislative proposal, which we in LA support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190917	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it's mr. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127190926	In the alternative, we act in such a way that at our group meetings one of the legislative proposals for debate can be marked if one does not think that one should only assess as rapporteur in one area what we should vote in this Chamber. There is also the possibility of colleagues from the parliamentary group or Members contacting you before going to the Chamber and telling you what they think, and then it may be that you are affected by it, but this time I wrote a debate on this subject along with my own position on what we should think, and that is precisely because of the good points that have been made in the Chamber today. It is really, really, a difficult area to legislate on, because I also believe that there have been no previous examples of Danish ground in relation to what we really want to go in and defend ourselves against here. But I very much agree with Mrs Christina Egelund that this is happening. In Europe we see it, in the United States we have seen it. Whether it is indications or real, there are interests, and there is a conflict, and some of the clever reasons for voting against this proposal, which I have heard, could of course be that it is actually conflicting because we identify an enemy in Russia, primarily, who may not have been hostile in this area to Denmark yet, but who in other cases has been apparently hostile. If we choose to vote in favour of this at the end of the day after a thorough discussion in committee, and we might well choose to do so in the alternative, I think it is important to point out that we have to see this as a general legislative proposal. Yes, it may be that Russia is the ones we look for most and have the most intention to protect ourselves from in this case, but it is more interesting to talk about that it is generally that we should be able to protect Denmark from this. The due diligence that was talked about before. Yeah, let's do something about the threat that might come. Normally as an IT rapporteur or as anything else here in the Danish Parliament we usually require both the government and ourselves that we had thought a little better about in a little better time. And maybe that's what you do with this proposal, so actually getting ready for the impact that we see elsewhere in the world, even though Denmark is a small country and until now may not have been so interesting. Having said that, we have listened very, very much to the consultation answers, just as the government has done, and therefore also made a proposal which is much more interesting for us in the alternative. Several of the voices we usually listen to, among others. Justitia and Amnesty think that what has come here in the new proposal is a major improvement, and I am going to go very openly to committee and will again raise interest that this is not just in relation to Russia, because then I think that we are actually helping to escalate a conflict that we cannot tolerate geopolitically, and that is not what I am saying right now, that is, that there is no conflict with Russia. Russia is very, very inappropriate in many ways when it comes to being someone with which to cooperate. But I think we should see it more broadly, namely that it is something we are doing to address future threats to Denmark in general. So the alternative has not yet taken a position, but is curious about the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191228	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191238	First of all, I should like to apologise for the fact that I am running into the middle of the debate. I've been at home kissing my son, and I thought that Schengen debate was gonna pull out, but you were done with it very quickly. So let me start by stating that we support L 94. Then I'll go to L 95. Soon we will be going to parliamentary elections and European elections, and it is important that we can have a democratic conversation where we should not be afraid that foreign intelligence services are interfering and spreading fear and false news. Then a number of concerns have been expressed as to whether this is a restriction on freedom of expression, and I am happy to see that the Minister for Justice has listened to the hearings and has corrected the bill so that it has become quite clear that you can still write on Facebook what you want. You can write all the nonsense you want on Facebook, it doesn't change this bill because it has been made clear that helping or enabling a foreign intelligence service to operate in Denmark is only a criminal offence if you work together to influence decision-making or general opinion formation. That is an important clarification, and so the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191409	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191417	After all, it is very topical to discuss how we protect ourselves from foreign influences. Democracy has received new, acute challenges from foreign intelligence services, but the fact that foreign powers want to influence Denmark and other countries is probably not so new. I guess it's been going on for decades. However, new tools have been put in place to make it easier to carry out propaganda and influence. In the global village it has become easy to communicate information, fake news and manipulation, but is this bill the answer? Is this the right medicine? I don't think so. Today, we have many opportunities that are not being used and that should be taken into account before we start legislation that the SF is concerned about will lead to what both the Legal Union, the Danish Journalist Federation and Justitia raise in the hearing answers. We are concerned that this will lead to a disproportionate restriction of freedom of expression in relation to achieving a result which could have been achieved in other ways. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191535	We are therefore grateful to Mr Beazley for his report. Karsten Hønge. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191544	Last year, in 2017, FE, Defence Intelligence, wrote in their report that one of the biggest threats we face is hacking. We are being hacked every day, not only by the Russians, but also by Iran, North Korea, China, criminal gangs, so these are some threats we need to be very, very aware of. It is also mentioned that impact is a very big challenge, especially in the context of a forthcoming elections, from the experience we have from the US elections in 2016. There was a scientist here a few days ago who was out saying that there is not a single example, but the threats, the influences need not be visible. In other words, he doesn't know much about that. What FE writes about influence is: • It is likely that Russian influence campaigns will pose an increasing threat to Denmark as well, and at no or very short notice can Denmark be affected by Russian influence attempts... Russian influence will for example. could happen in connection with an election campaign or as a consequence of Russia's wider intention to influence the situation in the Baltic Sea region to the advantage of Russia. It is therefore a serious threat which we Conservatives find deeply worrying. We will in no way accept that foreign powers undermine our democracy and engage in influence activities in Denmark. In the view of the Ministry of Justice, there is a need to clarify the legal situation so that we ensure that the authorities responsible for dealing with the threat posed by such operations have a solid legal basis. With this proposal, we make it clear that it is a criminal offence to help or cooperate with a foreign intelligence service to engage in influence activities with a view to influencing decision-making or general opinion-making. There will therefore no longer be any doubt that the influence of foreign intelligence services against Denmark is within the scope of Article 108 of the Criminal Code. With the proposal, we are strengthening Denmark against such threats. We protect our democracy and the fundamental values of freedom on which our society is founded. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191834	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. That brings the rapporteur's line to an end, and so it is the Minister for Justice who is on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127191846	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their contributions here today. After all, the aim of the draft law is to strengthen the criminal protection against impact operations. The draft law should be seen in the light of the fact that the impact of operations in recent years has posed a growing challenge for a number of Western countries. The worrying developments take the government very seriously, and that is why, at the beginning of September, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I launched an action plan with 11 points to protect our democracy and, in particular, the forthcoming parliamentary elections from impact campaigns. One of the initiatives in the action plan is the first legislative proposal we are considering today. With the bill, the government will make it clear that the influence of foreign intelligence services against Denmark is covered by Article 108 of the Penal Code. Today, it is certainly a criminal offence to help or enable foreign state intelligence services to operate within the territory of the Danish state. However, in the view of the government, it is not sufficiently clear that impact campaigns such as those we have seen in recent years are covered by the provision. We cannot live with that, and the bill must make that clear. Our authorities must stand on completely secure legal grounds in the defence of Denmark's democracy. We will ensure this by means of this bill. Specifically, the draft law proposes that it should be made clear that it is a criminal offence to cooperate with a foreign intelligence service to engage in influence activities with a view to influencing decision-making or general opinion-making. In addition, punishment presupposes that, as is also stated in the provision today, it also helps or enables foreign intelligence services to operate within the territory of the Danish State. As has been reported in the press and in the commentary on the list of hearings, various criticisms have been made of the draft law in connection with the hearing. It has been said as part of the criticism that we want to criminalise certain critical statements with the bill. Of course, that is not the case. On the contrary, the bill is about protecting democracy and our fundamental values. We have listened to the criticism and adjusted the bill after the hearing, so there is now a requirement that there should be cooperation between the perpetrator and the foreign intelligence service in relation to influence activities before penalties can be imposed. It would therefore not be a criminal offence, for example, to be independent of a foreign intelligence service. share messages on social media or elsewhere, even if you know or believe that the intelligence service has been given the task of spreading the messages in question in Denmark as well. This is due to the fact that the bill does not have to criminalise statements or statements of opinion in itself, but vice versa, the draft law makes it absolutely clear that it is a criminal offence to cooperate with foreign intelligence services to engage in influence activities within the territory of the Danish State. Finally, I would like to say that it is my opinion that adopting the legislative proposal will ensure that we have adequate criminal safeguards against impact campaigns. I also believe that the draft law ensures this precisely without compromising on legal certainty, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. It is precisely the aim of the bill to protect democracy from false weights in our debates and democratic processes. So with these comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and also look forward to the debate and I sense that they will be allowed to answer a number of questions in writing so that we can make this clear to everyone what the intention is, so that there is no doubt. Then you can vote for or against, depending on what you think, but at least no one should feel uninformed about what we are voting on when we get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192304	The Minister is already given a chance to answer an oral question, and that is from Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192309	Thank you. Of course, we're going to ask a series of questions about this, we've already asked some, and we're going to ask more. But since the Minister is on the platform, I cannot help taking advantage of the opportunity to perhaps get some of the doubt in the ground tonight. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a specific example: one could imagine that a Danish MP is having meetings with a foreign debater, and the debater and the MP agree on a criticism of NATO... none of them like NATO........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Danish parliamentarian thinks that this is so important and important for the debate that the first thing he does, after the two have been working for a very long time on the same goal and have debated and even met and maybe even visited each other, is to call the Folketing for a question debate with a view to carrying out what has been discussed with this debater about the debater, who might even write a chronicle to Berlingske about it; one could also do so, and then one has tried to influence both the decision-making and the public opinion, and then it turns out that this debater was a spy. But how would you know? I know spies don't go around advertising that they're secret agents. Will such cooperation be criminalised if the government's bill is passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192440	That's not what this is about. It is precisely about knowingly and deliberately working with someone. Well, if you were to be judged for it, it would require that it could be proved in a courtroom that you knew who you were dealing with. And it is really important to me that we should basically be allowed to mean anything; we should be allowed, as is mentioned here, to hate NATO and love Putin; we should be allowed to do everything. But what you should not be allowed to do is destroy our democracy by working directly with an intelligence service, where you can be used as a tool for influence activities on Danish soil. As I hear the question, sir. Peter Kofod asks, will it be the case that what is asked will not be punishable? It takes you to have a purpose and a knowledge of it. But I almost hope that Mr. Peter Kofod will ask the same question in writing, so I am sure I have heard it correctly and answered it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192537	Sir. Peter Coot, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192542	I would like to do so, and I would like to ask many other questions, because there are many examples that I think are essential. You can discuss how effective this is. Unfortunately, I did not make it through the whole of my rapporteur's speech. I had written one that was too long, but that is the way things can go. One of the things I think is much more important than punishment is that you have a population that says: this sounds strange. Or, who said this? What's your source? So, in reality, I cannot help wondering whether this would have been completely superfluous if more had been done instead of teaching children and young source criticism in primary school, in other words, discussed where information comes from. I don't see fake news as a new phenomenon. We've always known about that. It's just called rumors and gossip, and now it's just come to be called something new because there's social media. So are there not areas where it is thought that action would have been better and more effective and where it would have had a greater preventive effect in principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192640	I do not think there can be any two opinions that what the questioner is talking about is something that needs to be kept in mind all the time, and that is why the idea of this plan is also that we should focus on information and that we should learn more about it. And I fully agree that we should like to learn source criticism from quite young people. But I would say that this is not what this proposal is about in this way of understanding that this has been cut very specifically, so that it is simply cases where you cooperate with a foreign intelligence service. And that is why I believe that this is timely care, in that if you really work against your homeland together with a foreign intelligence service, it must be punishable and you must have a severe punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192727	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192740	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192803	With this bill, we are bringing the law of the police into line with the concept of detention of the European Convention on Human Rights. This means, for example, that a so-called optical follow-up, after a concrete assessment, will not be detention. Optic consequence means that the police follow a group of people from one place to another while the police surround the people. If the police enclose the persons, they cannot leave the entourage of the so-called optical follow-up. In connection with a case where the police had intervened in a rally at a street party, the Supreme Court stated in February 2018 that the police intervention in the form of an opticalally closed follow-up in the sense of the police law had the character of detention. At the same time, however, the Supreme Court stated that the European Convention on Human Rights did not provide for detention. It is this difference that the draft law seeks to offset. We will ensure that the law on police is given the same concept of freedom as that of the European Convention on Human Rights. Against this background, I can inform you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192902	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127192909	Thank you. In our opinion, this is a very small proposal coming from the Minister for Justice and, of course, it is a question of what is in the law of the police, of the European Convention on Human Rights, of optical consequence and of detention. It is based on a specific case and on a judgment of the Supreme Court, which has come to the conclusion that, in the sense of the law on police matters, detention was involved, but that was not the case under the European Convention on Human Rights. This is then sought by correcting the law of the police so that it is forward-looking that optical follow-up and closed optical follow-up are not the nature of detention. One can discuss how much difference it will make out in reality for the people who have to work with it. I'm not gonna make myself an expert on this question. My bid will be that the effect it will have will be relatively limited far along the way. But if that means that one more step can be taken in this way within the convention, make police work a little easier, then we strike and say: bought and then we support it. So we're going to vote for the government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193036	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193043	Thank you. I must begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. After all, it is the case for parties with fewer members of parliament that it can be difficult to be everywhere at meetings here at Christiansborg so that. Yes, it is not the world's biggest proposal that we have on the table today. It is a question of whether a police act can be characterised as a detention or not, with the resultant obligations on the police. Apparently, there has been a Supreme Court ruling which has interpreted a concept of optical consequence, i.e. the way the police follow some demonstrators, in the sense that it was a detention in the sense of the police law, but not in the sense of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think most of them are off at this point. However, I can at least console the people for whom it may not be quite clear that what we are doing is that we comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, for which there is at least a large majority in the Folketing. This means that an optical consequence will not be a deprivation of liberty, and I think that will be the case, among other things. means that the police save a lot of time for registration and other things in that direction. So I shall do no more than say that the Left can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193213	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193221	Thank you. In October 2014, the police carried out a closed optical follow around a reclaimed street demonstration in Copenhagen. The police surrounded the demonstration, consisting of a few hundred demonstrators, and led them from Strøget to Nørrebro for an hour and a half police action. In February of this year the Copenhagen Police won a case at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruled that it was perfectly legal when the police surrounded a group of a few hundred who made noise and trouble in the inner city of Copenhagen. The police prevented the people in the group from leaving and prevented them from going where they wanted. In an hour and a half police action, young people were taken from Strøget to Nørrebro, while they were surrounded by police. The police won the trial because the Supreme Court stated that this police action was legal. In police language the instrument of power used is said: closed optical sequence. I would call it detention, because if the young people were deprived that night of their freedom to go where they wanted to go, I think it is strange to call it something other than detention. Although the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that the police action was legal, the highest court of the country also stated that this was a detention on the basis of the definition of police law. On the other hand, if you look at the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the police action in October 2014 was not detention, the Supreme Court, which referred to a Strasbourg judgment in Austin v United Kingdom on the detention of about 1,500 people at Oxford Circus in London back in 2001. So even if the Copenhagen Police were successful in the police action being lawful, the sentence was opposed by the police in the way that the Supreme Court stated that this was therefore a detention under Danish law, namely the police law. Now the government comes and wants to change the law so that the Supreme Court will not in future call the police action detention. When the authorities lose a case in the Supreme Court, you can just change the law. After all, no one is saying that human rights in Denmark should be limited to what is stated in the Convention on Human Rights. Nothing and I mean nothing prevents us in this Parliament from providing citizens with more than a minimum basis, which applies to the citizens of all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. In other words, we can define something as detention, even though the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg says that it is not detention in the real sense of the Convention. So let's try to see the situation for us: 200-300 young people are surrounded by the police and for more than an hour led slowly away from the place in a group, while the police prevent them from leaving the group. So you can't leave the group if that's what you want. Is it possible to move freely? No, you can't. Can you go anywhere you want? No, you can't. Is one then deprived of one's freedom? Yes, you are. In a literal sense, therefore, it is a matter of detention. I can give you many other creative examples of this, and you can also come up with many creative terms for police action, for example. closed optical follow-up. It just doesn't change the fact that this is a detention facility. Former MP Bjørn Elmquist was a lawyer for 18 of the complaints in the case back from 2014. Following the decision of the Supreme Court in February of this year, he said to information, and I quote: it is not an optical consequence. It's an arrest where people are moved from one place to another. That's what the Supreme Court agreed with him in February. And the legal situation that was in force in February, yes, we want to maintain it in the Enhedslisten. Closed optical consequence is the same as detention, and we are therefore voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193653	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193659	Yes, and that's just because the rapporteur called Reclaim the Streets a street party. This makes me wonder how much the rapporteur comes from Copenhagen. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this type of action is vandalism, that is to say that it is a very, very serious vandalism time and time again and not just a street party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193718	About Reclaim the Streets is vandalism? I can't relate to all sorts of specific Reclaim the Streets actions. Surely they have had all sorts of different expressions, and some of them have probably been street parties, while some of them have probably been vandalism. It is the case that if things have been destroyed, then of course they are vandalism; I do not disagree with the rapporteur at all. If things have been destroyed, it is vandalism, and if graffiti has been painted, it is vandalism. Well, I agree with Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen in. That's just not what the bill is about. The bill is about detention.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193750	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193753	I am in favour of this, but the rapporteur calls it a street party, although the rapporteur knows very well that there has been so much vandalism on the part of this group, so it is as if it is a violent attack on the part of the police to detain some of these. I just think that you should not call it a street party, but call it what it is: autonomous people who deliberately do vandalism and smash more districts in Copenhagen. And the rapporteur knows that this is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193810	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193812	I have personally participated in Reclaim the Streets actions, which have been parties where there has been no vandalism. Then I understand that Reclaim the Streets may be a concept or a name of a particular form of action that has been used many times. But I think it is wrong to say that it has all been vandalism. I would say that a large part of it has also been street parties, at least that is what I have personally participated in; I myself have not participated in anything that has been vandalism, I can assure Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193839	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127193848	Thank you very much. The draft law we are discussing here changes the concept of detention in the police law, so that it will be in sync in the future with the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is, in fact, very good that we ensure that our legislation is exactly in sync with the Convention. This means, in particular, that, in future, it will be possible for the police to take advantage of what is called a closed optical consequence in connection with demonstrations, riots in connection with football matches and such things as that, without any question of detention under police law. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of the bill. Closed optical consequence is an effective tool for the police to take action against unrest and potentially dangerous situations. I think we have all heard of riots in the streets and potentially dangerous situations, because that is what happens, and when that happens, it is actually very good that the police have the tools to bring peace to the streets and thus security to the citizens again. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194008	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194014	We would always like to take the lead in the Alternative if we take the lead in something that we think is good for Denmark and which is good in general, also globally. Human rights are therefore very, very crucial for us, and normally I could also make a speech in which I was very keen that we should not just thank European human rights, that is, the European Court of Human Rights standards. In this case, however, we have discussed this in depth in the group and we have not ended up being completely clear as to whether we can still be in favour of the proposal, but I am very, very positive about the intention. Because right down to the low-practical, how this is going to work, it's my understanding that you have just the chance to ring a turbulent. You'll have that, whether you say yes to this proposal or not. But if you say yes to this proposal, you have the opportunity to say that the police do not have to go in to every citizen in this ring and find out what they are called and to point out that you are now in detention or what you are saying in that situation. I am not aware of what the policeman says to the individual and then move the citizens who are causing trouble. If we do this and say yes to this, it is my understanding that you can just move that crowd, large or small, away from the area where there are problems, to a place where you can then let the citizens go through. And it is true that, with my language, they are also detained during the period they are there, but it is so legal that we can take that discussion, and I am not legally sharp enough for that. The point for us in the Alternative, if we choose to say yes to this and, as I said, we are not clear yet, is that it may actually be better for the citizens too, that they should not spend the 11⁄2 hour extra on the police walking around and checking each one, but instead the police can move the people away and create security in the area where you are. If we subsequently find out that this was indeed detention or that people have been held for too long, then the police will always have to be held responsible for the assessment that has been made of the situation. And that is actually what we are reading in the proposal, namely that it will be the individual event that defines, as if this is detention, and whether that is what we are allowing from now on, that is, where we are following the European Court of Human Rights, and that we have to move this amount away to a safer place, without calling it detention. And in this way, with the positive glasses, it can be an improved practice for both the police and the citizens. That is what makes me lean towards us being positive about the proposal and saying yes, but we must also look through the consultation answers very carefully and see if one can imagine that the police are starting to abuse this outstretched hand, which gives them more freedom, and can act more effectively and perhaps wisely in these situations. There I am in a dilemma, because in the alternative, we always say that we have to have confidence in our institutions, we have to have confidence in our public employees, and that is where I have to assume that, of course, the police are using this mandate as sensibly and properly as possible. However, we must ensure that the mandate is not misused. I could not imagine it being done, but it is one of the things we need to look at in committee work, i.e. whether there is a risk of slipping. But overall, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194336	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194349	Thank you. This bill brings the law of the police into line with the European Convention on Human Rights, and that sounds good in radical terms. So, although one can actually say that it could actually be a little shattered in my ears, that there is less legal certainty here because it will no longer be regarded as detention, I think it is important that we follow the European Court of Human Rights. I would just like to end by saying that it would be nice if the government were always so effectively to ensure that Denmark respects human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194433	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Then we reached Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194439	The concept of detention must mean the same in the sense of the law and in relation to human rights. And there may be such special challenges in how the police should deal with larger groups of people, and therefore SF can see some good intentions in the bill. We can also read that the Institute for Human Rights recommends that the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in this area be written directly into the legal text and that a thorough guide be provided to the police on how the provision of the ECHR should be interpreted and dealt with in practice. SF supports the bill in principle, but we will await the committee's examination, including how to deal with the consultation responses from the Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194537	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. So we've reached the Minister of Justice on this issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194542	Thank you for receiving the bill. After all, the aim is to equate detention under police law with detention under the European Convention on Human Rights. It is not appropriate for there to be a difference between the two today. One consequence of this difference is that an optical consequence is not detention under the Convention on Human Rights, but it is under the law of the police. It is my opinion that the police should have the best possible means of intervention. Optic consequence is a central tool for the police when it comes to taking rapid and effective action against unrest. If optical consequence is considered to be detention, the police shall identify and record those present. This is the prerequisite for anyone who has been detained to have his case tried in the courts or to have a complaint dealt with the police. However, if everyone in an optical sequence is to be recorded, this could mean that the procedure lasts longer than is necessary. At the same time, the action risks losing its effectiveness because the police's registration of those present will make the action administratively and time-consuming. This could lead to the police having to use other, more violent means of power in a number of situations, for example. gas or the like. Remember that we are talking about riots where, for example, there are. are mass vandalized, thrown with stones, bottles or the like against the police. In these situations, the police often have to take action in a short time to put an end to the riots. As I have said, I want the police to have the best opportunity to intervene against such disturbances, and the fact that an optical consequence today is detention under police law, but not under the Convention on Human Rights, is inappropriate, and that is the difference that we are now making up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194739	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. There is no objection. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194747	We are reopening the debate with Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194810	The purpose of the draft law is, among other things, to: ensure rapid and systematic access by Danish police to passenger data to combat serious crime. Today, our ordinary police have no systematic access to this information. With this proposal, as is the case with the police in the other EU Member States, we will allow the police to use passenger list data. We need to create a single legal framework for the authorities to collect this information. Due to our EU legal reservation, the so-called PNR Directive, which makes it possible to access passenger data, does not apply in Denmark. In 2016, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservatives and the then government requested the European Commission to open negotiations on Danish association with the PNR Directive. Today, Special Branch, Defence Intelligence and Customs have access to PNR data. We will ensure that this bill does so in the future as well. PET considers that access to PNR data is essential for preventive and investigative action against, inter alia: terrorism. Access may provide information on whether persons with a possible link to terrorist activities are on their way to or from Denmark. Access to PNR information also strengthens the defence intelligence capabilities to prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests. Finally, PNR data are also used in connection with customs controls and can be used in the fight against e.g. drug trafficking. It is, of course, essential that PNR data be properly stored and handled. We in the Social Democratic Party will focus on this in committee. Against this background, I must inform you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194940	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127194949	Thank you. Well, I was just beginning to think that I should get the rest of the time from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, but it looks like I'm getting a new appointment here. This bill serves the purpose of adapting the Danish system of collecting PNR data to the pan-European system. This means, inter alia, that the information will not be collected in the future by the customs authorities, but by the National Police in a newly created PNR unit. When the Danes in 2015 wisely chose to retain the Danish reservation of law and foreigners in a referendum, the Danish People's Party already indicated in advance that we wanted an agreement to be established on continued Danish participation in Europol, Eurojust and the European PNR register. None of the conditions at the time had finally been clarified by the European side. Denmark has now reached an agreement on continued participation in Europol, where we had the second debate on the subject last week. As far as Eurojust is concerned, the regulation has now been adopted and the government has formally called for a parallel agreement. And then, finally, we have PNR registered, where we are taking a step towards the conclusion of an international agreement on Danish association with the EU PNR directive. Denmark began collecting information on air passengers several years ago. Already today, PET, FE and the Customs Authority have access to PNR data, but with the pan-European system and the desire to link the Danish system to this, a number of adjustments are needed. The main purpose of data collection is to address terrorism by identifying suspicious travel patterns and assessing whether people related to international terrorism may be on their way to Denmark. The exchange of such information across Europe can thus be essential for countering terrorist attacks and other serious crime. The access of PET and FE to PNR data remains unchanged in relation to the current scheme. However, FE's access is increased so that FE also has the opportunity to obtain information about Danish nationals. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice has assured that the customs authorities, who have so far collected the information, will continue to be able to use the information in order to assess which passengers will have to undergo a particularly thorough check at the airport. Finally, the police are given the opportunity to use the information to combat serious crime. In the Danish People's Party, we are also pleased that, in urgent cases, it is possible to pass on PNR data to another EU Member State immediately and without making a reasoned request, so that an immediate problem can be dealt with quickly. The Danish People's Party is therefore fundamentally satisfied with the bill, which maintains the good experience with the Danish PNR register and adapts them to a situation where there will also be working registers in the other EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195242	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195249	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. In 2016, the European Parliament and the Council concluded a directive on PNR data for the prevention and investigation of terrorist offences and serious crime. In May 2016, the government, in agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radicals and the Conservatives, with a mandate from the European Committee of the Regions, has asked the Commission to open negotiations on Danish association with this directive. This presupposes the establishment of a similar system in Denmark, and that is what the proposal here provides the framework for. What is being set up under the proposal is an office of the National Police, and to that office airlines must report their information on travellers, according to the annex, i.e.: e.g. route, traveler, payment, credit card payment, location in the plane, etc. etc. The Office, what is popularly called the PNR unit, can then pass on the information to relevant authorities, including the police, FE, PET, SKAT and, in certain circumstances, also foreign intelligence services. To the extent that a person is suspected, it should be noted that a person is suspected of serious crime • something that is also listed in an annex to the bill. To a large extent, it is a question of creating a legal framework for the opportunities already available to the authorities today to set up a joint office. As far as I can see, however, it seems that the police are at least practically given better opportunities than they currently have, that is to say, the ordinary criminal investigation police, and we cannot object to that. With those comments, I would like to say that the Left can agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195455	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195501	Thank you. I'll be brief. I would like to start by stating that, of course, everyone wants to fight crime and that, of course, everyone wants to fight terrorism. I really don't think anybody does. The problem with this bill is that it means that we all have to pay a really high price. This bill means that the right to privacy will be violated and that we will see a much greater mass surveillance of air passengers. I think this bill is precisely mass surveillance because it means that the police now have to start monitoring it, if you take a weekend trip to Paris, or if you go on vacation somewhere in particular, where the police may often see someone else go. It is a very large amount of information that the PNR unit will now be able to retrieve in the future about people who are not suspected of anything but who are just going out and travelling. I also think that, when you read the consultation answers, there is a great deal of concern about this bill. For example, the Data Protection Agency points out that it increases the risk of non-proportional interference with the right to privacy. The Association for Legal Affairs points out that the framework already exists today, and I agree with them on that. I think this bill is an expression of a very problematic mass surveillance which I am not interested in in a democratic society such as Denmark. I'm very worried that this means a really big interference in the right to privacy that the police are now about to spend their otherwise precious time watching people who just go on an ordinary vacation. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195725	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, and it's Mrs. Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127195733	Thank you very much. After all, I must not allow my rapporteur's speech to be constantly enriched or strained by what has to be said, the previous rapporteur, because we are speaking according to the size of the parties, which is why I always speak according to the Enhedslisten. And that is when we discuss justice policy, sometimes an exciting experience, because sometimes there are constellations that you had not just seen coming. After all, this bill strikes the middle of a dilemma that we are faced with over and over again in the time in which we live, namely the consideration of the right to privacy, the right not to be monitored or to be unnecessarily registered, and on the other hand the need to take advantage of better opportunities for the authorities to investigate, clarify and, in the best case, prevent hard crime and terrorist attacks. After all, this is a dilemma that we are faced with when we talk about logging, about monitoring at all, and here too, when we are talking about PNR. I think we should now return to the previous rapporteur. I think that the previous rapporteur very well described one side of the dilemma, namely the question of the right to privacy, but completely excludes the opposite, namely the fact that it is also very nice to live in a world where we are more free from organised crime and terrorism than we are today, and these are the two considerations in which we must constantly try to navigate. And it's really just to say that we're totally on the dilemmas that lie in this bill. When we in the Liberal Alliance support this bill, it is because I actually think it has succeeded in hitting exactly the two opposing considerations very, very well. On the one hand, this newly created PNR unit, which will be set up under the National Police, will have effective tools when it comes to both investigating, but hopefully also stopping people who have something criminal in their sleeve, and on the one hand, I believe that we have fenced it into legal certainty in a way that makes it fully justifiable. For example: It is the case that information, which is 6 months old or over, up to the five years that they must be stored, cannot simply be requested by the police because they think it might be nice. You actually have to ask a judge and have a court order in your hand. So it's not like this bill just floats all sorts of places with private information about our every move. It is actually fenced in, I think, also as a liberal, in a perfectly legal way. With that, I have to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200023	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200033	It is always absolutely essential not to be seen as a fantasy or someone who has not understood the context, to identify precisely the dilemmas of such a bill as this, and I would also like to say that we are quite critical of it from the point of view of the Alternative that we also want to put a stop to terrorism. Nor do we want there to be people who can come to Denmark and do something that is bad for us, and that is why we must give the police and intelligence services the best possible means to protect ourselves from crime. We can then say that we should probably also say yes to this proposal if we assume that there is reason to believe that someone has asked that we should have these enhanced opportunities to go through passenger lists. The balance and proportionality of the proposal do, however, seem to us to be biased, although I agree so much that it is an improvement body that a court order should be issued if the information is more than six months old; I think that is commendable. P.t. However, we are still opposed to the proposal, and that is the general slip that we see, in relation to the monitoring of the Danes' lives these years, in the service of the good, in other words to protect us as a nation and as individual individuals, but here we think it is for an incredibly long time to keep that data. Is it five years in the text? Across citizens who travel on a flight, it is really, really many data about people who have not committed anything at all criminal. If it is to the benefit of security, it is indeed commendable to take this initiative, but we think that it is on the edge and, in fact, a little above the edge, in terms of whether it is sensible. At the same time, there are some consultation answers which I have only just seen ticked in a few hours ago and which I would like to take a close look at before we make our final decision. But as a starting point, we are opposed to the bill. And one of the things I am aware of is that the IT-Politics Association also thinks that it does not actually quite live up to what you have at European level, and it does not have to, because we have not said yes. We do have a legal reservation, but that is at least one of the things I want to dig into during the committee procedure. But as a starting point, we are opposed to the draft law of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200247	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200256	Thank you. As a liberal, it's keeping your tongue straight with this proposal. Because, on the one hand, the Radical Left has played a role in the whole of European work, and we think it is important that there are common rules in this area, but, on the other hand, I also share the concerns raised in the consultation answers, because whether this leads to unnecessary monitoring. Among other things: writes Legal Policy Association that there is no need for over-implementation, and IT-Politics Association writes about some analyses that are beyond the directive. Some of this has been answered by the Ministry of Justice, but it is a little difficult for me to see through, and so I will use the committee procedure to get the drill out of what elements are necessary for the Danish PNR system and which elements, if any, are beyond and are overimplementation. The answers to that will then have an impact on where we stand, because it is important for us that we do not have to monitor more than necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200421	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200428	SF would actually be able to support the government if it were simply to put in place the implementation of the PNR directive itself. For the PNR Directive, legal certainty and a number of reservations on data protection, including the Data Protection Regulation, have been taken into account. But that is not what is on the table, and the problem is that the government's legislative proposals directly run counter to both the PNR directive, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Data Protection Regulation and the Human Rights Convention, as pointed out by among others. Department of Human Rights, IT-Politics Association, Data Inspectorate, etc. In relation to the Human Rights Convention, the bill interferes with the right to privacy, and in relation to the PNR directive itself, the main problem is that you will allow both PET and FE to have access to all the information contained in the proposed PNR unit that will have to be established in the National Police. As PET and FE are not covered by Union law, the data will not be subject to EU data protection requirements. This means that, for example, PET and FE. do not have to submit reasoned requests, but may receive PNR information only if it can have an impact on PET's tasks in preventing and investigating violations of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code and the tasks of the FE in carrying out the activities of the service aimed at external affairs. In addition, in relation to the storage of information, the Directive requires the PNR device to mask PNR data when stored by the PNR device after 6 months. However, with the draft law, PET and FE also have access to this information, including access to masking under significantly lighter conditions than what the PNR Directive allows for access by competent authorities to masked PNR data. And the bill does not require PET and FE to delete the information. Therefore, PET and FE can create parallel PNR registers completely bypassing the standards of Union law. The Government's bill is significantly worse for legal certainty and data protection than the EU PNR directive. Furthermore, it is surprising that the government has just put forward a proposal that is contrary to EU law, when the purpose is precisely to create a parallel agreement with the European Union. It is strange to expect other EU Member States to pass PNR data on to the Danish PNR unit if the data from the Danish PNR unit can be passed on to PET and FE under conditions that do not comply with the data protection rules of EU law. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200722	Nevertheless, we would like to thank the SF rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127200730	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate on the legislative proposal, which aims to give the police systematic access to PNR data. At a time when serious crime is becoming more and more cross-border, EU cooperation, particularly in the field of police, is crucial to the ability of Danish police to intervene in time. Cooperation provides considerable added value compared to a situation where Denmark was alone in the fight against organised international crime. And the government isn't alone in thinking that. A few years ago, the then V government asked with a mandate from the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical and Conservatives for a Danish association with the so-called PNR directive, which Denmark is not subject to because of the legal reservation. The directive creates real cooperation that standardises the way PNR data are used by law enforcement authorities in the EU in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. The directive helps to ensure that the countries of the European Union share information more quickly with each other and with Europol and that the quality of the information is high. We do not yet know whether Denmark can negotiate a PNR agreement home, but a Danish association with the PNR directive basically requires Denmark to establish a PNR scheme similar to the European one in the PNR directive. In this respect, this draft law is an important step in that direction. Regardless of whether we can be allowed to participate in the European PNR cooperation, it is crucial in my optics that the Danish police have the best conditions for investigating serious and organised crime. A systematic access to PNR data may provide the police with insight into where a suspected person has been or has gone, on which route and with whom, in order to identify fellow criminals, suppliers and backers associated with the most serious organised crime in Denmark. It will therefore be a valuable tool for the police to clarify the travel patterns of criminals using PNR information. This applies not only to the investigation of specific cases, but also to more general analyses, which include: shows patterns and trends in specific types of cross-border crime, and it is a tool that Danish police urgently need at a time when serious crime is committed across borders. That is why I believe that we must make this tool available to the police. Intelligence already has access to PNR data today. They have it through the Customs Department. This draft law, as I said, is intended to establish a PNR system similar to the European one in the PNR directive. The bill changes the current PNR system, where PNR information is received by the Customs Authority, so that a new PNR unit is established in the National Police. The PNR unit shall act as a focal point for PNR data received from airlines, EU countries and third countries. The police and customs authorities shall only have access to PNR data on a person if there is reason to believe that he or she may be involved in acts of terrorism or serious crime that may be punishable by at least 3 years of imprisonment. The proposal continues to ensure access to the information needed by the services. The authorities will therefore only have access to this information when it comes to serious forms of crime. Access to the collection and processing of information about citizens should, of course, go hand in hand with data protection rules that ensure that the data are processed properly. I think that is also the case in this draft law. It will be prohibited to collect sensitive personal information, and then the PNR device must ensure that PNR information from airlines is masked after 6 months and deleted after 5 years. Thus, information is retained in the PNR unit database for 41⁄2 years without the PNR unit's employees being able to identify individuals associated with the information. The staff of the PNR unit can only access the masked identity information when a very special procedure has been followed. In addition, a court order is required if unmasked information is to be passed on by the PNR unit to other authorities. Furthermore, the rules of the Law Enforcement Act, the PET Act and the FE Act will provide a framework for the security of the processing of data by the PNR unit, depending on the authority from which data are processed. In addition, the Data Protection Agency and the Intelligence Supervisory Authority will, of course, be responsible for overseeing how the data is processed by the PNR unit. This bill therefore calls for the police, in line with the police in the other EU countries, to have rapid and effective access to PNR data for the purpose of combating the most serious organised crime. As a number of the consultation responses and the debate today show, one can of course have different views on the elements of the proposed system. There, at least in the course of the committee procedure, and I shall look forward to it, we have the opportunity to answer some of the many questions that can be raised about the choices that have been made on individual elements of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201246	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201252	There may of course be very good arguments for implementing the PNR directive, but what is the government's justification for going so far beyond the limits imposed by the PNR directive? And what is the Minister's response to both the Department of Human Rights, the IT Politics Association, the Data Protection Agency and others? points out that this goes far beyond and affects people's privacy far more than the PNR directive itself? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201323	But I would very much like to reply to that, also in writing. I would almost call for that question to be raised in writing, because that is not the approach of the Ministry of Justice to this. In other words, we do not agree that the PNR directive is going far beyond that. What lies, of course, is that if we are to have a chance to get an agreement on PNR data, we have to make a law in Denmark which, in fact, transposes the PNR directive very closely, so that it is similar to the directive. We have done so very close, and that is the reason for it. I think it would be really good to get this solved. We can send some papers showing it. We simply do not agree with the assertions that have been made that we are far beyond the PNR directive in this draft law; we do not think we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201422	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201424	Yes, we will then have a chance to clarify that during the committee work. For what would drive other EU Member States to deliver PNR data to our PNR unit if they could be transferred to PET and to Defence Intelligence under conditions that do not comply with EU law on data protection? So how can you imagine getting other countries to provide us with information that we do not handle in ways that comply with EU law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201456	But PET and FE already have the opportunity to access the information today, it just happens by other means and therefore it makes good sense to have it written together. So I simply do not agree that we are now opening a door to other countries to provide us with information that can be used to a very different extent than can be done in other European countries. And I think we will have a very good opportunity to make that clear during the committee debate, because I also have an interest in the fact that there is no uncertainty out there about what is really up and down in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201531	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201534	But basically I am just glad to have the indication that we may be able to approach each other in the committee work with answers to the questions. 'Cause I've got like mr. Karsten Hønge studset that it seems to many people, in the eyes of many good professional organisations, differs from the PNR directive and the charter there is. So my question to the Minister will be: is it correct to understand that it is in fact the Minister's intention to follow the directive as closely as possible? Because then we can go where we are right now. I think there is something that makes us unable to support the proposal, in other words that there is something that differs, at least try to approach one another. So is it the Minister's intention that, if possible, it should be one with the Charter of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201622	Yes, it is, and it is also our view that with this bill we are getting as close to the PNR directive as we can, that is, when we are going to introduce it into Danish legislation. So it is true that we now have some designs with PET and FE, which we are also dealing with here, but that has no bearing on the information that is being passed on to the PNR directive. That is also why I think it is really important that we clarify this during the committee procedure. For there are none of us in this Chamber, I assume there is an interest in some ideas floating out there that we have done something that goes far, far beyond what our partner countries are doing. I have no interest in that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201706	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181127201720	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 28 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
