ParlaMint-DK_20180227130017	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130021	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130040	Thank you. I apologise for the fact that the chairman of the Social Democratic Party and I took up Question Time bilaterally in the back. However, thank you for the floor here at the first extended Question Time of the year, where there is also the participation of our dear colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It's always a pleasure. Denmark is doing well, Denmark is in top shape, the economy is strong and employment is setting new records. We're missing 1,100 in putting the Danish shistorical record into employment. It's gonna happen. There is optimism everywhere in the country. It hasn't come by itself. The Danes have worked hard for the progress, and here in the Folketing we have tackled many of the challenges that slowed growth. One of the areas in need of thorough clean-up is the area of foreigners, where, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we had three major problems. Firstly, the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark was historically high, really out of control. From 2011 to 2015 just increased and increased the number of asylum seekers year by year. We have now got this right. Today, the number is historically low. In 2017, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest in 9 years. Secondly, far too few newcomers came to work. The demands were simply too weak. The figures were low year after year... no government mentioned, no government forgotten, it's just a fact. This development has also been reversed by two-party agreement, tripartite agreement, integration summit, the introduction of basic integration training, and today all the new entrants are met with demands for work, and there are therefore few of them, fewer than nine years of meeting with duties. That's why more people come to work. It saves society millions and millions of dollars for passive support. Thirdly, the influx has, in fact, over a generation meant that Denmark has changed. I still remember the 4th grade where Ibrahim showed up after the school break as the first and the only Turk at our school. That's when I was in fourth grade. And I remember the year I started in high school. There were over 50,000 non-western immigrants and descendants in Denmark, and today it is barely half a million from 1%. at 8.6%. since my youth. A lot of people are doing well, and that's good. But there are also too many who do badly, who have lumped themselves together with others with the same problems and created holes in the Danish map, where too few are in work or in education, where too many, despite 10 or 20 years in Denmark, do not speak Danish, where children do not get the opportunities they deserve and which they basically from birth are equipped to seize. It's grown big. The mayors of Western Denmark cried out many years ago. Their call was put in the drawer. Misunderstood consideration was a shadow of reality. I am convinced that we can still solve the problems, but I am also quite convinced that it must be now. That is why this week the government will present a comprehensive strategy to tackle parallel societies. We will take action with a range of significant and targeted initiatives and with clear objectives for the future. The problems were not created overnight, nor can they be solved in one day. And I wonder whether it will not also be the case that some of those who opposed our restrictions on asylum, which have now led us to have the lowest influx to Denmark for nine years, will also wriggle when we address these problems. That's what I'm predicting. But I hope that it will end with the parties of the Folketing showing courage and responsibility. And I just have to say quite quietly: it does not help in today's parallel society to set up fictitious tent camps in North Africa. It's like a post office too late. Now is the time to deal with the consequences that have arisen over a generation, the parallel societies, the ghettos. Denmark deserves us to clean up after the sins of the past, to set in where the problems are and to give everyone an opportunity to move forward into the future. The government will present a comprehensive proposal for this on Thursday, and immediately after that the government will convene a set meeting of all the parliamentary political parties with the ambition that we will quickly translate strategy into action that can be felt out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130541	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Inuit Ataqatigiit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130603	Thank you very much. When we enter this Parliament, it is with a reminder that land must be built by law. That is at the door of the Parliamentary Chamber, and it reminds us that one of our most important tasks as elected representatives is to ensure legislation that meets the needs of society. At the same time, we need to be a few steps ahead. We must anticipate problems in society, and in this way we can say that legislation must guide the desired development. Much development, which applies in Greenland and is carried out by us here in the Folketing, is deeply outdated. Let me give you a few specific examples. In Denmark, parents of the same sex may recognize motherhood. This is not possible in Greenland, as central parts of the Children's Act are from 1962. In Greenland this means that one parent must be an adoptive mother and cannot be recognised as a co-mother, as one can here in Denmark. Another concrete example is the Personal Data Act, which has fortunately recently been updated for Greenland too. This is an update of the register law of 1978. In Denmark, the Personal Data Act has been continuously updated and, above all, adapted to the new challenges and opportunities created by digitalisation and increased activity on the Internet. Today, very Greenlandic legislation under Danish responsibility is still not updated. Legislation is lagging behind, and this helps to hold back the Greenlandic community. Does the Prime Minister, who is also Minister of the Kingdom Community, think that old Danish legislation in Greenland is satisfactory? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130754	Here you go. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130756	The short answer to the question is of course no, because we must clearly have the objective that where there are not very particular reasons why things are arranged differently, the standard is the same. That is also why, in the Finance Act, we have set aside a pool of 10 million. kr. Annually in the period 2018-2021 to the justice area in Greenland. And that is also why the Minister of Justice has been available and remains available for an ongoing dialogue with the two Greenlandic members of the Folketing on how we prioritise our efforts. Because, as I said, the short answer is still no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130843	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130846	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer. After all, that is an honest answer, one might say. After all, the government's basis is very clear, and I quote the following: "The government will give priority to constantly updating the legislation for the Faroe Islands and Greenland in areas for which Denmark is responsible. ▪ The government also refers to the fact that between Greenland and Denmark government must be co-operated with government, which is why it is of course also crucial what some statements that Inatsisartut makes about getting a boost to a major update of old laws. Now it is the case that, for the first time in recent times, Inatsisartut has submitted a strategy and an action plan with very clear priorities in relation to which laws need to be updated. We know that there is about a year left of this parliamentary term here in the Folketing, and that is why it has to be said that the government has a great deal of work ahead of it. So I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister believes that it is realistic to live up to his own government base in terms of updating old legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130955	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227130956	Yes, I certainly believe that it is realistic to work with the objective of putting common European standards through and securing new legislation. Whether it is possible to achieve a full goal before the parliamentary elections, I cannot stand by and guarantee that I cannot, but I can give a promise that we will work down that road. I also think that we have shown the will to do so, partly by allocating resources, partly by the fact that I myself have been confirmed, as I had the opportunity to meet with the Greenland Committee more informally last week, to have a rather close relationship, and also, when I compare it historically with governments of which I myself have previously been a member, open dialogue with the Greenlandic members, and this also applies to the Faroese members and the government. It is both in the context of financial law negotiations, defence conciliation, but also in this ongoing discussion about the order in which we should resolve the unresolved problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131104	Thank you. Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131107	Thank you very much. I would just like to comment on this and say that it is not only in the area of justice that there is a need for a boost; in other words, there are also a number of other areas. For example: We know that there are several managers in Greenland who are facing a change of ownership of the companies. It is company owners who contribute financially to Greenlandic society, they are business owners who also contribute to Greenlandic society in terms of jobs, and here they are calling for an update of the succession law in relation to a future generational change. The inheritance law was revised in Denmark eight years ago, and in Greenland the succession law that was in force before the 2007 amendment still applies. So both the business community and the Naalaksuisut also want the inheritance law to be updated, but the work is dragging on a lot, and we have not yet seen a draft law. I find this deeply unsatisfactory, and I think it also represents a skewed development between Greenland and Denmark. How does the Prime Minister feel that old legislation influence the relationship between Greenland and Denmark? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131215	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131216	There are many things in relations that can be improved and that we need to work on getting better. That is why we have expressed this objective in our government base, and the ministers are working hard to achieve it. If there is a particular problem in relation to the succession law, I would like to be made more familiar with it and also follow it up. This is also why we have undertaken a targeted border prevention work within the Kingdom to break the barriers to free movement, thus reducing the de facto freedom of movement between Denmark-Greenland, Denmark-Færøerne, Faroe Islands-Denmark, Greenland-Denmark, Faroe Islands-Greenland, Greenland-Færøerne. So we really want to pursue this. And then there is quite obvious and it is a different discussion, but it does exist a lot of homework in Greenland that needs to be done if you want to have the same standards in general, including in repatriated areas. That has just been said. So it is obvious that there are challenges, and we must work on them, and we are prepared to do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131333	Thank you. The question is closed. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, outside the groups (UFG), go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131348	The Prime Minister keeps saying how important it is with the Kingdom community and that you want to preserve the Kingdom community. He talks about equality, respect and cooperation and about our internal relations being very important. We have a lot in common, many good successes, many strong relationships and mixed marriages with children throughout the Kingdom community, all of which are of great importance to our perception of what the Kingdom community is about. We are very united, but we also have many things that we do not in many ways stand together. In 1951 the state with Eske Brun led the experiment where 22 children from Greenland were sent to Denmark. We've seen that in the film "Experiment" and we've read about it in among others. Tine Bryld's book in the best opinion. These children's experiences, trauma and alienation of their own language, country and culture led the state. Not long ago, the Folketing decided to lift retroactively the limitation period for claims for damages and compensation in cases of failure to act. Can these children, who were removed back in 1951, receive an official apology from the state and thus be treated with equal dignity and respect from official Denmark? What can the Prime Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131528	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131529	Thank you. It is quite right, of course, as the question is being raised, that the Folketing has recently adopted what we called the justice package, which abolishes the limitation periods for claims for compensation and compensation resulting from the failure by an administrative authority to comply with statutory obligations towards children who have been subjected to abuse. Then I am also aware that the questioner has put a committee question under the auspices of the Greenland Committee to the Minister for Justice, to whom the Minister of Justice is currently preparing an answer. And the answer that is coming from the Minister for Justice, I am going to refer to here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131621	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131622	Thank you for your answer. I'll look forward to reading it. I would like to ask a few questions about the area of foreigners. I have great respect for the government's foreign policy, since it is purely Danish jurisdiction. We have doctors who work in Greenland, who come from a third country, that is, outside the Nordic countries, doctors who, through their education, have also resided in Denmark and thus learned the language Danish, and who have also had their rotation scheme in Denmark, and who have later got a job in Greenland. Some of these doctors, as I have learned, have applied for citizenship and would like to live in Greenland forever. But they are refused, do not get a residence permit and do not get what they are asking for in the application. These people are very important to the people of Greenland, to our health, to our safety, but certainly also because they help save lives. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister can inform us whether there can also be seen with a little nuanced glasses on future applications when it comes to other parts of the Kingdom community that need these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131735	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131737	In any case, I would very much like to hear a little more about the examples here, because I am not familiar with them on a stand-by basis. In general terms, I have to say that the rules we have for citizenship we have, and we must have them. We cannot begin to bend them on the basis of some consideration that people, having acquired citizenship, want to live in a certain part of the Kingdom community rather than another. I have to say that. So I am a little out of comprehension that there should be some particular issue here. Now Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said before that my answer was actually an honest answer, I am trying to give it on a regular basis, but I would like to add it here. I must honestly say that I am not familiar with this issue. I would very much like to know more about it, and then we will have to discuss it from there. After all, we have a right of birth which determines which criteria must be met in order to obtain citizenship. It is, moreover, a set of rules which the government plans to revise on the basis of discussions with the parliamentary political parties later this spring. It will hardly be in order to make it easier to become a citizen, because we have the basic view that when you become a Danish citizen of the Kingdom community, in words and deeds and conduct and life, you must show the will to be Danish. I am quite aware that the Greenlandic community, like the Danish community in many important positions, is dependent on the fact that people have come from outside, who are undertaking important tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131924	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227131925	Thank you. Greenland is building airports or at least plans to build large airports which will have a major impact on Greenland's future infrastructure, but also certainly for the whole region in general. Recently we read in the Chinese playout their Arctic policy, and the Chinese see the Arctic as one of the most important areas of foreign policy in the future • they call it the new silk road. Of course, the Chinese interest in the Arctic has also emerged in connection with Greenland flirting with China. Recently we saw a large delegation from Naalaksuisut who went to China where they talked to each other. We talked about airport buildings, we talked about cooperation in much wider forums than we have done in the past. Does the Prime Minister see a possible concern in the Chinese's very great interest in the Arctic area, not only in Greenland, but also in their possible investments? And how can it have a relationship with Denmark and the US's internal relations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132041	One last answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132042	This is an exciting question which I would also very much like to discuss with the questioner. And if I were to do it with all the facets I might want to do, maybe we should find somewhere else than the Assembly Hall to discuss this in the first place. But a positive interest in the Kingdom community I had almost said regardless of the country from which it is shown is good. Having said that, it is quite obvious and it is also one of the things we work with in the Danish Parliament that we also have to think strategically about the geopolitical world picture, the security situation of the empire and other things in a number of contexts, for example. when we take a position on critical infrastructure. That is why the Danish Parliament has recently adopted legislation which allows us to take account of considerations other than the environment when we decide whether or not to do so. can draw gas pipelines through Denmark. And I would think that this type of consideration should also be done in Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132205	Thank you. And then the question is closed. Then it's mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132218	Thank you. Now it's been a long time since we've faced each other here, so I almost forgot how this is going on. And maybe we could use a slightly larger quota for such questions in the future. But since the last Question Time, the lagman has been visiting the Prime Minister, and among other things. The Faroe Islands' limited foreign policy space was discussed. We have also had an intermezzo about a declaration of intent between Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands regarding cooperation in the Western Order, and there have been discussions in connection with an application for Faroese membership of the Nordic Council. In fact, I do not believe that anyone with insight into Faroese-Danish relations is in any doubt that the question of foreign policy will lead to more clashes between countries if we do not have more room for manoeuvre. After all, the Faroe Islands are not part of the European Union; we need to act in the international community, both in negotiating access to resources and access to export markets. And this is not always in harmony with Denmark's interests, which are, of course, very much bound up with the interests of the European Union. And that task will not be less challenging when the UK resigns from the EU. Does the government have any concrete considerations as to what steps will be taken so that the Faroe Islands really will have greater scope for foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132350	Thank you. It's nice to see you too, sir. Magni Arge again. And I have not forgotten how this is going on, nor, in fact, what is the common thread of the questions. The government has a desire to discuss these things with the Faroe Islands, and without even being polemical, I just have to say that at the last Kingdom meeting on Christiansø last summer the lagman and I, also with our Greenlandic colleagues, agreed that we should start work to see how we can give what is called the DFG scheme, i.e. Denmark as far as Greenland and the Faroe Islands, more flexibility. And we have since had an ambition to get started on that. It has waited a little longer, and it has not been at our initiative that it has waited for it, but now we have confirmed once again that we need to get on with it in two directions. 'Cause there's a legal trail, and sir. Magni Arge also knows that our opportunities here are fenced in by various things • the constitution of the kingdom, just to mention one thing, and the Helsinki Treaty in relation to the Nordic Council, most recently confirmed at the last session, that is to say, it is the framework, also for a greater autonomous Faroese participation in Nordic co-operation. So there are some legal limits, and they have to be drilled out. And then there is the practical, pragmatic, which is the second clue: how can one really make sure that they can be fulfilled, I think too, natural ambitions that exist in the Faroe Islands to play its own role? And we're all positive people who want to sit at a table and talk about these things on a fully lit basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132549	Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132550	Now the Prime Minister again mentions this, that it is within the framework of the Constitution. I believe that if we continue to interpret the foreign policy law and the framework of the constitution, as has been done in recent years, then we are getting into this conflict in any case. Does this mean that the Prime Minister is prepared to enter into a discussion and find solutions that are outside the framework of the Constitution and maybe we should just step out of the constitution and find another way to do things? By the way, I can see that the Prime Minister will be attending the annual meeting of the Samband Party here in a few weeks' time. I think it would be very interesting to hear whether the Prime Minister will also take part in the annual meeting of the Republican Party so that we can have some discussion at odds on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132637	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132638	I will certainly not show up without an invitation; I do not think anything good will come of that. And so far there has been no tradition that I have received invitations from Tjóðveldi in connection with Tjóðveldi's annual meeting. If there is one, I will certainly give it my very, very positive consideration. It is quite true that I am going to the annual meeting of the Samband Party. It is the fact that that party is my own party's sister party, so it naturally falls. But I love to go to the Faroe Islands, as Mr. Magni Arge knows, and he'll be happy to come in too, sir. Magni Arge's house, sir. Magni Arge too, so I'm not at all pale to show up for any counterplay from Tjóðveldi. More seriously in relation to the question: there is no point in reducing the basic law to such a small amount, and then you just have to submit it to a different interpretation. The Constitution is a legal framework. There's patina on it. In the past, I have experienced that it has been interpreted inappropriately in relation to my own political ambitions, but I have had to give in for it. As far back as 2001, we tried to extend Danes abroad's voting rights, based on the fact that the world has become a little more mobile than when the constitution was made, and the fact that having a residence in the kingdom is perhaps a little different if you have been posted for 3 years and in daily Internet connection with your family. But there we just hit some limits, and there we are just not equipped with the freedom that we can sit here and say: that was then the constitution. Now we're just adopting something else against it. We look at this a little differently; I know this from previous hours of questioning and other good relations both here and north.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132827	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132830	I read this morning a call for Twitter from my good friend, the Catalan executor, Carles Puigdemont, to release the four political prisoners in Spanish prisons. It is about Jordi Sanchèz and Jordi Cuixart, who are the leaders of each of their civil society organisations, and the former ministers of the state government, Oriol Junqueras and Joaquim Forn. They were elected to the Catalan Parliament on 21 December, but they are still in prison for the fourth month without a conviction, because they are supposedly afraid that they will speak politically for Catalan independence. Does the Prime Minister consider it to be in the European democratic spirit when you imprison political opponents without even a conviction in an EU country, and does the Prime Minister sympathize with Puigdemont's call?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132922	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132924	I consider this to be an internal Spanish matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132932	That was the last answer to the questions. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227132940	Thank you. This is going to be about something that may not be so common to ask the Prime Minister questions about. Last week there have been quite a few Danish media who have dealt with abortion in the Faroe Islands • there have been journalists up there to make broadcasts and write articles. There is nothing to come by when it comes to legislation • it is the old Danish legislation of 1956 and, according to many doctors and women, it is not followed, and so is the number of abortions. Fortunately, it is very low, but it is not as low as it would be if the law were followed. So there are things to criticise, that is clear. However, as you know, the matter will be taken over this summer, and then there will have to be a Faroese debate, which will then result in a Faroese law in this area. However, many of them have taken part in the debate that has taken place in Denmark, which does not believe that it should be waited for. Danish Women's Society calls it e.g. hypocrisy that the Danish authorities do not pursue the Danish basic position, that abortion should be free, and legislate directly in the Faroe Islands, thus putting the Danish law into force for the Faroe Islands bypassing the Faroese authorities. However, if legislation in the Faroe Islands is to have democratic legitimacy, it must grow out of a Faroese debate and be adopted by the Faroese authorities. I think the Prime Minister has the same view. That is why I would like to ask a question which is that we imagine that we are in a debate programme and the Prime Minister is sitting at the table, and then someone is saying: this is too wrong; here we have the chance to do something for a Danish fundamental value, namely free abortion; of course we have to act where we can act, instead of just talking, and now we are doing this and putting the law into effect. What would the PM's answer be in such a program?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133128	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133130	If I had known the question before I arrived, it might have been that I had not even shown up because I do not really think it is a discussion that I am promoting very much by interfering very directly in. No one should be in any doubt about my and the government's basic positions on all these issues, which relate to the right of women to decide over their own bodies and to questions of living their own sexuality, and where, I think, I think, and without intervening in internal Faroese relations, it was with a certain amount of long-suffering that the Faroe Islands approached a state of law similar to that of Denmark. I mean, these are my basic positions, but I also have basic respect for the fact that the Faroe Islands are a people, a nation, which therefore also has its own responsibility for defining its own rules of play. This does not mean that I agree with all of them, but I have the fundamental respect for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133232	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133232-2	Thank you. Of course you can have opinions and all opinions are welcome and you can criticise as you like, but it is very important that you say that this is a system that is different from your own and that you have to respect it. We can influence through debate, but not through legislation. It is difficult in some places to stay away, and in other places you can get involved. This is true, for example. The enforcement law, which the Faroe Islands have wanted to put into effect for a very, very many years. Thus, Faroese prisoners and prison guards have a much weaker legal basis for their situation, their work, their rights and obligations than the corresponding Danish ones, because the Danish enforcement law is not in force for the Faroe Islands. I have asked the ministers through the system several times and been told that it is waiting for the Code of Procedure to be put into effect first and, as I understand it, it can go all the way to 2021 before anything happens. I don't understand why it can be so complicated. It is a question of putting the law in force in Denmark into force for the Faroe Islands. Couldn't the Prime Minister say that this is at least a matter that you want to get a tick on before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133351	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133353	It can hardly have the effect that we can push the elections to 2021, I understand, because otherwise it could be quite tempting to do so, but it may not work. I cannot stand here and commit myself to putting that law into effect by 17 June next year when the term of office expires, I think. I can't. But I am happy to discuss it, because I do not know the details of it either. I know, of course, that part of the problem that is next to the legislation itself is the terms of service in the Faroe Islands, which we are also working to improve. And I actually have to point out that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale will have a direct meeting with the Minister of Justice to see if any of the things planned can be done more quickly than has already been planned, and as such I will have no objections in principle to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133452	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister said before that he would not say anything about the situation in Spain because it is an internal Spanish matter. That is clear, but I feel many times, as far as the debate that is currently taking place in Europe is concerned, both in Flanders, Corsica, the Basque Country, Catalonia and Scotland, that we have in our system solutions which are very much in demand. If we look at what we want in Scotland, Catalonia and so on, then we in the Faroe Islands can at least put flybones at almost all their wishes. It works here with us. Could it be an idea, as a kick in to the very large and important European debate, for the Kingdom community to be more active in informing about the systems that we have? It is not, of course, interfering in other people's relationships, but to say that this can also be done perhaps as an inspiration to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133550	I agree, of course, that our little peaceful country, in many dimensions, can serve as a model. This applies to the whole way in which historical border issues were dealt with in the southern and northern Germans, for which we can soon celebrate the hundredth anniversary, and the way in which minorities have been treated on both sides of the border afterwards. In fact, this also applies to the special arrangements we have developed within the framework of the Kingdom Community, where, in my view, there is a good balance between national autonomy and then a community of kingdoms. It can serve as an inspiration if it is sought after. Perhaps this is where our approaches are a little different, because I am not like offensively touring in educating government colleagues around Europe. I take the view, also through the presence of their ambassadors in our country, that they have a good insight into Denmark, and I also have the pleasure of asking and showing interest from time to time, and we shall, of course, have to run for office.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133705	Thank you, and the question is closed. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133717	Well, I would say that it is actually quite simple: I look forward very much to seeing the government's initiative on Thursday in relation to both parallel communities and vulnerable residential areas. As the Prime Minister knows, the Social Democrats themselves have put forward a major foreign initiative, and it is quite natural, in my view, that this is one of the things we are using today's Question Time. It is clear that, as a Social Democrat, I am more than anything rounded by the principle and value of right and duty. You have to have a job if you can. Of course, you can be legally excused, that is clear, but if you can at all, you have to work, you have to contribute, you have to provide, before you can enjoy. And the whole prerequisite, it can be said, for us to have a well-functioning welfare society, is that the vast majority of us who are of working age actually go to work. Otherwise, we cannot finance our society. And for a few generations we have actually also created a society where going to work and supporting ourselves are the most natural thing. This applies to the vast majority of us who are in Denmark, but when we look at the group of non-western refugees and immigrants, especially women, the figures look quite wrong. Yes, in fact, they are virtually opposed to the others, at least for some of the groups. We have, of course, been looking at this for a long time and we are concerned, both for the socio-economic, but perhaps most of all actually for the integration. Well, there are a lot of children in Denmark who today grow up in a residential area where it is not natural for Mom to go to work. This creates poor conditions for mothers to get their children on their way, and it also poses major gender issues. So we have proposed to reverse the legislation so that you would rather have a real job. And if you cannot find it, if you follow our proposals, you will have to do 37 hours of work in one way or another in order to get a benefit in Denmark at all. We believe that this will be good for integration and, of course, it will be good for the economy. The government has so far rejected the proposal a little, but perhaps it could be time not to reject each other's proposals, but rather to find solutions. So I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on the Socialist proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133939	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227133940	Thank you. However, there can no longer be any apparent failure at least, and it is nice that it has become so two opinions on this matter, namely that rights and duties are followed by each other, and that people who can work have to work and earn their own money. This has been our approach all the way through. This was also the reason why the government introduced an integration benefit for all new entrants. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats did not vote for it. Where social democracy is on the issue of the provision of integration, I am not quite clear. But at least we did so with a great deal of effect outside the Social Democratic Party. For the truth is that those who come to us now meet us in a quite different way from what we have done in history, on the basis that we are available in the labour market and that this is not something to prove that we are doing. That is why we have also significantly increased the proportion of those who are considered to be available in the labour market. And as a follow-up to the tripartite agreement we can also do so, but also because this agenda has been addressed, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen has also contributed to this; I would like to acknowledge that there is quite a different pressure for the municipalities to deliver here. We can see that starting to work for the new ones who are coming, and we must hold on to that. If there are some things in the legislation that need to be adjusted to ensure that it is fully implemented, then I am quite open to that. I know that my Minister for Employment is about to be on the way with a service inspection, you might call it the rules of sanctions and the obligations of availability etc., because it must also be said quietly that the municipalities manage this very unevenly. There are municipalities that really use the instruments in the toolbox and reach far and get people into employment, and there are some places where it is much more long-suffering. I think we should take more ownership of that. So I'm kind of open to that. That does not alter, and that is also what I said in my opening remarks, that there has accumulated a problem over generations with someone who, when they arrived, was not met. It is a slightly more complicated problem, and the clock has been ticked out and it is just to suggest that we might as well have to divide them up into those who will come tomorrow and those who have been here for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134206	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134208	I think it is true that this is necessary in some areas, but unfortunately we have to note that, when it comes to the group of women with a non-Western background, their participation in the labour market is low, both for those who have been here for many years, that is to say decades, but also, in fact, for those who have come here in recent years. This also applies to the group of newly arrived Syrian refugees, where female participation in the labour market is too low, and this presents us with huge challenges as a society. I would like to say that I know, as a former Minister for Employment, that I do not think it can be done with a service check. We have service-checked that legislation with changing ministers at a great many times, and I think as a society we need to be much more precise and much more direct in our demands on the people who come to our country. When you are here and you have a residence basis, we expect you to go out and find a job. If we do not succeed, then the Socialist proposal is that we should contribute instead, as the rules are today, that we can walk between one and the other and the third. And you shouldn't just contribute a little, you should contribute 37 hours a week. And that was the concrete proposal I asked the Prime Minister about. Should we turn it around so that there will be tangible demands and thus much, much clearer expectations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134325	Yes, but I am just questioning whether it is now clear expectations to focus on the exception to succeed, that is, what Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself considers to be the main rule. Because in my optics it is so, and my basic view is that people who come here and are entitled to a residence permit should, of course, have it. I am a little unsure whether social democracy means that they want them on some plane somewhere that I don't know where. However, in my actual manual we may have to grant them a residence permit if they are entitled to do so, and then they will have to meet with a firm claim for self-reliance. And we should then focus all our energy on ensuring how it happens... I just think that instead of discussing what we should do if it doesn't succeed. But maybe it's just a temperament difference. It's not at all to be mad or anything, I'm just saying it quite quietly in the bud. And we would also like to discuss it when we get into these discussions on a more enlightened basis. I just think we should focus energy on the main rule and make it work rather than spend a lot of effort defining some exception to it if it doesn't work anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134437	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134439	In fact, I think there is a difference between our temperament and the approach to some of these issues, because if I am to take the Prime Minister's words at face value, the Prime Minister wants to continue to have asylum treatment in Denmark. I want to have it in the neighbourhood, simply because I think it is a better way of making refugee policy. Here is a clear political difference, and we will have to discuss it as we go along. In other words, our challenge is it, and this applies both to the questioner and to the answer that the general rule is not that women with a non-Western background are in work in Denmark. The main rule is that they are not in work. The main rule is that when you come here, whether you are a refugee or an immigrant, and do not have a Western background, you go home; then you do not contribute to the labour market, and then you do not get the same opportunities for active citizenship as other women do. And, of course, for many, they also find it harder to ensure a daily life for their children. I would very much like everyone who comes here to be self-sufficient and to find a job. Until we reach that point, I want everyone to contribute to this society because, as a Socialist, I think that is basically the most important principle. The Prime Minister will not be involved in the concrete proposal. Well, could we perhaps agree from here that we do not spend time shooting down each other's proposals, but have a broad agreement drawn up across the political parties that will take responsibility so that we can create the solutions needed to solve all too many problems in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134606	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134609	Speaking of temperament and asylum treatment in the neighbourhood, I spend many of my waking hours promoting a European line on the whole issue of looking after the EU's external borders, ensuring that people do not come here and demanding that Africa do not produce illegal migrants and asylum seekers who are not entitled to asylum and take them back if they come to Europe without a legal basis. We are investing massively in the neighbourhoods thanks to the austerity we carried out on top of a government of which Mrs Frederiksen herself was a part and where there were more weakening of foreign policy than there are sides to the new presentation by the Social Democratic Party. And it's not a small paper that's made. So we've kind of caught on trying to tighten it up. When I said what I said before, it was because it is useless that we create an impression among the people that we can, bilaterally of our own motion, conjure away some historical problems by doing something forward-looking that one cannot really explain what is. The challenges we face in the ghettos now have grown up over a generation where the number of non-western immigrants in Denmark has risen from 1%. is 81⁄2%. This means that we need to control the influx in the future. We have corrected that on top of a government that weakened the immigration policy also with some instruments, for example. The benefits of integration, which the Social Democrats unfortunately voted against. That is why we have also increased the level of self-reliance and we need to do more here. And I will put my lot in the scales where it is about making the general rule work rather than defining some exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134750	Then the question and the answer are closed. Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227134756	Thank you, President, and thank you for a foreign debate. I think it is fantastic that immigration policy is being discussed and how we can secure the country for the future. I welcome the Prime Minister's introductory remarks that a great deal has been done in terms of clearing up past sins, but also in terms of moving forward. The reverse is also welcome, that is to say, to do what is necessary, and we should simply accept it with a kiss-and-kiss hand and then get the mandates put into play so that we can get on the right track. My question relates to the area of foreigners, but more with a concrete example as a background, because often and often it is actually very good that things can become a little concrete. It is a bit with the TV 2 Press Log as a background, where on Sunday they invite media people to try to reflect on whether they have done well in dealing with a given case and whether they should perhaps have handled it differently. I am thinking specifically of the case of Baker-Ali, which he was referred to as. A month ago we had a big debate here in Denmark about a person out in Tingbjerg, kioskejer, baker, or whatever he should be called as, who had his shop destroyed. Of course, everyone distanced themselves from it, for it is no good at all in a country like Denmark. But the funny thing was that when you dug into the case • Jyllands-Posten has among other things. It seems that this person may contain a little more than the one that just came out first. In 2013 he came with his younger brother and father to Italy and received asylum, and a few years later the person here, Bager-Ali, and his younger brother visited Denmark and applied for a residence permit. They didn't get it from the Foreign Affairs Agency, but by a complaint to the Refugee Board, they got it. Why? Because they couldn't be with the father, because he wouldn't be with them, and they had to work black, and they couldn't go to school in Italy, and everything was wrong. And then they get a residence permit in Denmark. The Minister of Integration was visiting this so-called Baker-Ali, and money was collected, and a lot of things happened, and on the pictures that then a month ago were in circulation, the father stands next to Baker-Ali, and then the question to the Prime Minister is of course: How on earth can it be done that these people are in Denmark and not in Italy, when you have a Dublin regulation that says that you should be the place where you have first been granted asylum?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135018	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135021	That was a very good question, which I do not know if I can answer, because I am not aware of this matter in all its details, and I do not know what information was available when the Refugee Board took that decision. I understand that there has then been a refusal in the first instance, but then there has been a complaint, and then the matter is dealt with according to the rules in question. Then you must have restored some harmony in the family that wasn't there. It is not to stand and take it lightly, but what is my chance to say about it? I can say on the whole that I think we need, and I also think that we have come along nicely, to make sure that we have quite strict rules on foreigners. This is among other things. the reason why, through joint action, we have managed to get these figures under control in Europe, in relation to where it was, so that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers for Denmark we have had for nine years. If a person then has a stay and has it legally in Italy, that person can also move around according to the rules, including visiting family members in Denmark. That's the law, and I don't think it's on this point to change that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135141	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135142	Thank you, of course, for the PM's answer. I understand that it is difficult to get into such a specific case if it comes out of the blue. That is why I actually brought the issue up on the basis of the TV 2 Press Log, because it is a matter of making a little self-criticism and evaluation after a situation. Here we are dealing with something that was breaking story everywhere in Danish society a month ago. We are dealing with a case in which the Minister of Integration goes to his shop under great media attention and shows up and discusses and, of course, says that the government hopes that this person will find the opportunity to create a store somewhere else. So it's not such an unknown case. That is why I thought it might be that the Prime Minister knows something anyway, when subsequently in the government you have discussed what it is and how to deal with it, what you do about it. There has also been a process in which one of the members of the government's parliament collected a lot of money, which must be returned to those who have given, because, as the police have said, I think they used the term "it was probably a more tedious matter." We, as Members of Parliament, do not know much about what is involved, that is to say what is the basis for the term a mixed matter. But at any rate what I have told you here has gone back into the cover-up of Jyllands-Posten and other media, namely that it is people who have come from Iran and have been granted asylum in Italy who have come to Denmark on the basis that they cannot be together as a family, and now they are suddenly together here a few years after. Well, doesn't the PM know what happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135312	Something I know, but I can't discuss it here in Parliament. It's a personal matter. I think this case shows us that not everything in the paper is necessarily right the first time it is written there. Because, as the case was presented, the reaction that existed, i.e., among other things, seems very natural. the initiative taken by a member of parliament and the sympathy he showed for what seemed at least to be that a hard-working person doing business must see it destroyed by a violent attack. I am not getting away from this on the basis on which action was taken. What can we learn from this? I guess we can learn from it that in many of these cases you might just breathe in and know with yourself that there can also be nuances. It's an experience I often have when I see personal cases in the media, where feelings of sympathy develop about how sorry it is that this very person can't be or what it can be. There you sit with a more nuanced picture from time to time, which you cannot really convey anywhere, and if you could, the mood of the people would probably be different. That is why we must all be careful not to lie down for the moods of the people. Then I would say that the basis for residence has been provided based on the rules and based on the information provided. It must, of course, have some consequence if the information that has been provided has not been consistent with what is true at the time when it was provided. I assume that's something the authorities are following.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135508	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135516	Thank you. Now we are going to talk about a group of Danes, namely the approx. We must say that 750,000 public employees, for whom agreements are being negotiated during this time and for which negotiations have been stalled. During the crisis, they have shown wage moderation and have experienced virtually no real wage increase, and they have also experienced during the same period that there have been fewer colleagues and that they have been given more tasks; fewer employees in the public sector have arrived. At the same time, more elderly people, more sick people and more children have to be taken care of. So they run faster and faster for our common welfare, and they have done so all the way through the economic crisis. And now the economic crisis is over, and yet they can turn on television and see a representative of the government stand and say that they will only take and will not give at all. What you just forget is that those people every single day give something with their labor. Personally, at least, I get whipped, and I think there are many others who do, because the job they do is vital to our society. They are indispensable to all of us. They teach our children; they prepare future generations to take over and run this society further. They take care of our parents and grandparents in nursing homes who need care after they have worked a long life and paid their taxes. They patch us up when we're hurt; they literally and figuratively save our lives. They're clapping our paths. They're gonna make sure the sewers work, and they're gonna pick up our garbage. Well, without those people, without the c. 750,000 civil servants would all be the rest of us... you can't say that in the Assembly Hall, but the PM knows what I was thinking. Honestly, they've stopped, they've worked hard, and now it's their turn. And my question to the Prime Minister is very simple: is it not only reasonable for the public employees to know that these collective bargaining negotiations also have a real increase in wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135737	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135738	Thank you. I think it was a very nice speech about the work done every day by thousands and thousands of talented people in the public sector. I fully agree with that from words to words and wish that I myself, with the same glow, could praise their work in the same way. I will then bring all those in the private sector too. That is why we must ensure that all people who go to work are properly treated, which is why we have an instrument of agreement. And I am very sorry that there is at least not yet an agreement. I know that the Minister for Innovation, as the State negotiator, is ready to negotiate one part of the public contracts when others are, and that some of what has been produced in the press, like that we would attack the meal breaks, is notoriously wrong. These are things I know. And I only have one wish for the negotiations to get under way again so that they can be concluded in a proper, balanced way, in which the public employees also find that they are getting a decent salary for the work they are doing. At least now there's a temporary crash. A meeting has been arranged at the conciliation officer's meeting on Thursday. I can of course express the hope that it may help to restart some processes, but otherwise I cannot go further into it. After all, we are not negotiating the agreements in this Chamber. It is done between the parties. It is like the epitome of the Danish model, which I would also be able to give a very nice talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135935	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227135937	I'll look forward to it. I also think there is good reason to give a fine talk about the Danish model. When I ask what the Prime Minister thinks is fair, it is because I think, although it is formally the employers and there is a clear distinction between the politicians in here, that it may be a little difficult to distinguish between Mrs Sophie Løhde, the chief negotiator, and Mrs Sophie Løhde, the minister. We have also seen the Minister of Finance be out interfering in the debate and many others from the government team. So I think it's fair enough to ask a question about what's fair. After all, this discussion has been taken over by the government's Minister for Innovation, who actually suggested that the public employees had almost had a wage party, and so many public employees were concerned that they started putting out their payrolls for public viewing. Among other things, there were: A nurse I even think she was the one who started the whole thing that is employed in a nursing home for, among other things. Dementia sufferers, and she gets about DKK 15,225,90. paid after tax. Many others have done the same. Does the Prime Minister not think it is quite fair, now that the crisis is over and she has shown wage restraint with her colleagues, that she too will have a real increase in wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140055	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140056	Now I do not know if the questioner can tell us how many hours of work that pay slip covers? Well, I think it's fair that people get a decent salary. And we are also trying in other ways to pursue a policy, in other words, alongside this one with the collective bargaining, which ensures that all Danes, whether they are employed in the public or private sectors, will prosper. This is among other things. Therefore, we have recently agreed to provide some tax relief, which this group of public sector employees will also benefit from. It is clear that if collective bargaining is to be landed, they must be landed precisely on the point where employers and employees can see that it looks sensible and balanced. That is why I can only call for these negotiations to continue and for the mutual will to be shown to achieve results. And there I can just note quite quietly, a little from the periphery, that some of the things that have sort of put themselves in the media do not match reality, for example. the picture that was created that someone should be out to attack the lunch breaks. I know that is notoriously wrong, and that is why I hope that this can get started again, if only at the conciliation meeting after Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140221	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140225	When I take this up and ask the Prime Minister again and again what is fair, it is because the fact that there are things that do not exactly match the reality seems to have happened on the part of the government representatives, among other things. when Mrs Sophie Løhde makes it appear that the public employees have experienced a wage party in relation to the private sector and will dispute the figures in a way that does not allow them to be used. That is also why I think I have to end by asking whether this is really so difficult, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister has a reputation for being a craftsman. So, we are talking about negotiations and about the public employees having a wage increase on an equal footing with private employees, that teachers should have a working agreement like everyone else with an agreement and that, of course, we should ensure that the paid meal break is a meal break one has had for many, many years. Is it really so hard to close those negotiations? Unless you want to attack and are looking for unreasonable cuts and want to undermine the public service, it should be completely affordable to have it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140336	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140338	Well, I don't think it should be so impossible, but it's just like two parties to negotiate. In relation to the meal break, I quote the minister responsible for the negotiations that is a direct quote: 'We will not abolish the paid meal break', which I would like to emphasise. And as far as I know, there are no state jobs that have resigned or have plans to terminate the meal break. And then she goes on, and I'd like to get behind that, which is why it's completely irresponsible when someone claims that the government will take the employer's meal break from the employees in the state. There are three requirements, where the meal break is one. Well, what's the challenge here? But again I have to say, craftsman or not craftsman, I certainly am not called to that task. This task lies with the negotiators, i.e. with the Minister of Modernisation, in the case of the state employees, with KL and Danske Regions in relation to the municipal and regional employees. I can only express the hope that an agreement will succeed in avoiding a conflict. It is in no one's interest that there should be a conflict. That is why I would just like to call for the negotiations to start again. I note that the conciliation officer has called for Thursday, and I hope that there will be a course of action that will lead to an agreement or a settlement in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140503	Thank you and thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then I must apologize to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who was cheated for an extra round. I think we can share up here. I'm sorry it won't happen again, I hope. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140529	Thank you for that, and we're gonna have to go around a little bit with my three questions. We must both talk about the upcoming government initiative on parallel societies, we must look at the relocation of state institutions, and then we will end with the Public Act. So these are some pretty big thematics that we don't even have time to get to the bottom of it. But we've been told something about your game about parallel societies and what we do about it, and I look forward to reading it on Thursday when it's actually presented. But something has come out, among other things. to double the penalty for certain crimes in specific residential areas. That means that depending on where you live, you will have a doubling of the penalty for a given crime. For me, it just seems so out of English, and I say this in that way, because the Prime Minister himself, in an interview in Berlingske, if I remember correctly, said that one of the reasons why this proposal is coming is precisely that Danishism is threatened. But one of the things that is most Danish to me is actually that we are equal before the law, and now I look right over my shoulder, and I can see that Bertel Haarder has gone. But he was Minister of Culture in 2016 and came out with what was called a Danish cannon, where the ten most important principles of being Danish had been ranked and what is important for Denmark, and one of them was precisely equality before the law. And now I quote directly from what it says in this Danish cannon, where the sender was the then bourgeois government, and it says: Equality of the law is a value that must also be safeguarded in the future. It is one of society's basic rules of play. So I would like to ask the first question, which is: Does the Minister of State agree that equality before the law is absolutely crucial to the way we think of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140737	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140738	Unfortunately, sir. Uffe Elbæk's question is based on a misrepresentation of what we are proposing when it is said: depending on where you live. That is simply not true. We have no idea of introducing rules to punish people, depending on where they live. We don't. We have a proposal to do what we call reinforced penal zones, which will enable the police to define areas of extreme crime and say that crime of this type and this type is committed here, it is with greater punishment. But it is the crime scene that is crucial, it is not the perpetrator who is crucial and where the perpetrator lives, and it is not really unknown. That is exactly the same as the fact that today we also have rules on speed limits, and we are imposing fines if people break the speed limits, and if speed limits are blown up in road work, we say that we attach extra importance to it. It is extra serious, and it does not matter who drives the car and where they live. So I do not think this is a deliberate misunderstanding, but it is a misunderstanding of the proposal. It is not a suggestion that if you live in Mjølnerparken, or if you live in Hellerup rather than Gellerup, you should have a higher penalty if you commit vandalism. What is crucial is that we get an instrument for the police to enter areas if there is a violent crime picture for a period of time. It is a little by the same line of thought as that we have search zones where we say that, because of the crime picture, you have to tolerate being searched without a warrant, and just as we have said that if you use a knife in the night life, it has a different serious consequence than if you use a knife in other contexts, and then it is not depending on who leads the knife. So it is simply a misunderstanding that this should be an expression of the fact that people are not equal to the penal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140951	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227140953	I can't wait for us to discuss the playback when we're invited, but I disagree with you. But we can then find out when we get the actual text. You can be young and born in Tingbjerg and commit a crime, and you can likewise be young in Ringkøbing for the same crime, the young person who was born in and lives in Tingbjerg will have a doubling of the penalty. There I simply do not believe that there is equality before the law. But we are going to discuss this and I look forward to it. The second thing I would like to ask and dive into is the government's plan to relocate state institutions. I actually agree with the government's intentions. There may be all kinds of good reasons why we strengthen cohesion in Denmark. When you read the playout, I feel that some of it seems to me to be such a bit of a symbolism policy. But what worries me most is the ideas that are now about transferring three absolutely crucial institutions, namely the Ombudsman, the Reichsaudit and the State Auditors, i.e. to move them out of the Folketing. Your job is to control the parliament, the ministers, the government. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister estimate that if you choose to move these three institutions out, it will be a weakening of their ability to control?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141126	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141128	Well, at least I'm a little sorry that Mr. Knox... Uffe Elbæk disagrees with what I say when I say it, sir. Uffe Elbæk himself said he was just wrong. It is said that it depends on where you live. No, it doesn't depend on where you live. It's suspended by where you commit your crime. Moreover, it is not the case that we are merely proposing that any area now defined as a ghetto should have a tighter penalty zone. I mean, this is an instrument that can be used by the police chief if, for a certain period of time, there is a particularly serious crime picture. It could be in relation to ghetto areas. It could in principle also be in relation to some small, what do I know, summer place, if it was suddenly ravaged by young people during a period of trouble and vandalism, i.e. that the police then said that hoof, now there are some special rules here. And then it's crucial who commits it and not where they live. So if there was a tighter penalty zone in the Mjølner Park, then whoever entered the Mjølner Park and did that type of crime would be affected by it, whether he lived there or not, just as those who lived there or did not live there and who committed some crime elsewhere in the city would not be affected by it. That's why it's equality before the law. Quite briefly in relation to the second question: I have no opinion on how the Danish Parliament will deal with the location of the Danish Parliament's own institutions. This is not a government matter. The Danish Parliament must discuss this with itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141258	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141300	I really should have asked a question about the Public Service Act, but I am now dropping it, because I do disagree, I would say to the Prime Minister, on how to interpret the issue of double sentences within a given postal code. I understand the argument, because you may be the one who does the crime, lives elsewhere and, if necessary, carries out crime in the geographical area in question, which we have now said is characterised by double punishment. But what happens if a young person in that residential area who lives there carries out a crime? There was mention of hash trade, which was mentioned vandalism. The young person in question who lives in that area can be compared with a similar young person in another area. I simply cannot understand it, but I look forward to discussing it because I simply do not understand the logic and I do not understand the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141402	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141403	I'm sorry, but now I've tried to explain it a few times, and I'll do it one more time. I mean, whoever drives some percentage too fast must also tolerate that if you do it somewhere where it just stands xx km, then you get one fine. If you drive too fast for a road work, you get a higher fine. Then you might ask: is it equality before the law, i.e. they have been driving just too fast? Well, it is because we have said that it is a particularly aggravating thing that you lie and drive too fast around a roadwork. We are now saying something about areas deeply affected by crime, and we have not defined in advance what they are, and we have not said that they are the ghetto regions, nor have we said that they can only be the ghetto regions. But if there are areas in Denmark that for a time are characterised by extraordinary insecurity, then we will do something about it. I believe that we have just received the police security figures today, which unfortunately show that the security of the people living in these areas, which we define as ghettos and which are particularly vulnerable areas, has fallen quite dramatically. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141513	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141521	Thank you. It is not as such forbidden to become wiser. But when you take part in the political debate, you can sometimes get the impression that you should not get involved in it. But I almost heard it as if the Prime Minister, in his earlier notification of the proposal on fictitious refugee camps, said that they were getting smarter. And I don't know, but maybe there's something about that, because the Secretary of State must have gotten smarter. For back in 2016, he carried the proposal himself and thought that it was easy to fix it. And since I could see that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was very much in agreement with the Prime Minister's announcement of the fictitious refugee camps, there is, of course, something that suggests that in any case it is wiser to go into government. So that's a good thing about that. Then there is the question of me, i.e. whether I have learned something more. And I have spent some time talking to some of the people who have also been talked about a great deal today, namely those who live in vulnerable residential areas or what the Prime Minister calls a hole. And I'd like to start by saying that they're a little bit upset to talk about their homes as a hole. I don't know if the PM would appreciate someone calling his home a hole. However, I do not think it is appreciated in the vulnerable residential areas. Not even with the pensioners I was having lunch with, who meet four days a week. But they are really sorry when there are gang conflicts that create insecurity, and that is where I say that when I see that some of the tools that I have been sceptical about have actually been used, I am not too good to say that then I have become wiser. But what is interesting in return is: What about the Prime Minister? Could it be imagined that the Prime Minister had become wiser? One of the things I love most about Denmark is that we are a society characterised by a high degree of trust in each other. I believe that one of the basic prerequisites for us to have the high level of trust is that we meet in day care institutions and in schools and in education systems because there is free and equal access across who we are. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the vulnerable housing areas in day care institutions and schools and youth education. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister and the Government have become wiser and would like to do more to ensure that we have mixed institutions and that we do not become more and more divided, and whether we will stop blocking initiatives in the field of high school, for example, as the Minister of Education has been doing for some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141748	Thank you for that question and the long follow-up. And yes, it is at least the case that until there may be camps in Africa where asylum procedures are carried out, they are fictitious. And it is also true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made that point in the past, and it was then described as inhumane on the part of the Social Democratic Party. I'm just moving in the real world, and that's where I understand that mr. Morten Østergaard has also been out and that's fine. I think it was sir. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who made the remark in his letter of the week, that if, after three days in those residential areas, you could agree to the gang package, it was a pity that you hadn't left anything before you had gone or stayed there a little longer. That was not my comment, but I thought it was a good one. In relation to those refugee camps, I would say that as long as they are not there, we have a problem at home, and it does not disappear even if they came. Because it is a problem built up over a generation, and we must do something about it. I fully share that description of what makes Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark, that is, about trust. And it is precisely there that something has gone wrong when we have created some of the residential areas. Well, it's really pretty few. I think that lives on the good side of a million Danes in general homes around the country, but the problem is that a very large proportion of those with a non-western background live in general residential areas where there is a high concentration of people with a non-western background, and that is what starts to challenge some sets of values. Some of what we therefore need to look at and we will return to that on Thursday is, of course, what kind of upbringing we are giving those children. For I would say quite openly and frankly that if you are born into an area where Danish is not the language that is typically spoken, where mothers do not go to work, where too many fathers are unemployed, where too few children go to day care and where you show up in primary school without having an age-matching language, it is difficult to accept learning. We have to do something about this: the government will also have some concrete proposals for this. And I have to reserve the fact that it is on Thursday that we present them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141956	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227141958	If there was a realization of having learned something, it escaped me. But it is certainly true that when you talk to people who live in the vulnerable residential areas that many talk about, they say they are sorry that the Prime Minister calls their home a hole. I think that is only important if you want to pursue a policy of better conditions and not a policy that goes against the people you are talking about. The next important point is, of course, what the views of people are. And I'm just saying that what meets me is a desire for children to meet each other in day care and in the school system and beyond in youth education. It is not a desire to isolate itself in societies with a different set of values. It is possible that the view exists, but it is not the dominant one. That's why I just think it's so important to take the right start. That is why I am surprised that the government has so massively prevented and blocked the fact that something has been done about the first obvious place, namely youth education, which has also become more and more divided, and where the government has clearly so far prevented the initiatives that could have been taken in that area. But maybe you've gotten smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142110	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142112	I should just like to congratulate you on having the full insight into all the inner considerations of these people as a result of a short-term stay. I would like to say that when I have talked about holes in the Danish map, it is because holes have been struck in the Danish map. There is evidence to say that some of the values that exist widely in Danish society are different in some of these places. When you ask about homosexual relationships, i.e. whether it is morally acceptable or immoral, you get some answers out of these areas, which are therefore very different from the general Danish attitude to it. And when you ask, I had almost said strength in the family, you get an answer that shows that the man is the natural authority to a far greater extent than what you see in the rest of Denmark, and also to a greater extent than you see in others with a non-western background. That is why there is something about these areas which, because of the congestion that has taken place, is not good. And it is pointless for us not to talk about the problems because we believe that they will then disappear. Well, I'm not gonna take credit for that, sir. Morten Østergaard has been out. But I would think that a debate on these ghettos has been initiated, among other things. In the New Year's speech, one of the things that has done is that Mr. Morten Østergaard has said: I think I'm going on a fact finding mission. And when we put forward our proposal on Thursday, you will see how wise we have become.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142251	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142253	What I appeal to is, in fact, the liberal in the Prime Minister, whom people sometimes have to look a little far behind. It is, of course, the fact that you do not stop people and commit everyone to a view that you meet with some people. There are 10,000 people living in Vollsmose. It is far from all of them that have a different background than the Prime Minister and I. I referred to some pensioners before. There are plenty of people who have a bilingual background or another ethnic background, who every day contribute to Danish society. That is just where I appeal to them not to be wronged, to pretend that they do not care whether their children are doing well or whether they are part of gang crime or that they do not want equality. What is the key, I think, is what we do about it. Is it a solution to continue to see divided day institutions, divided primary schools or divided educational establishments? The opposite has been instrumental for Denmark to have become the society as it has become, with the high level of equality that we have achieved. That is why it is probably also good for integration, and perhaps that is where we need to take action and lift the stubborn and persistent attempts of the Minister of Education to prevent us, for example. will mix the students in the high schools, as the Minister of Education has been doing for months now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142410	I have a full look at the difference between people. Whether they live in Gellerup or Hellerup, there is a difference between people. I can only note that in these particular residential areas things are on average worse. It does. Children are on average doing worse in school and, to a lesser extent than usual, they are ready for education after nine years in primary school. We have to do something about that, and that is not talking down to people. It's like talking to people's hopes that things can be different. Now there has been a lot of focus on the fact that it has cost 36 billion. kr. that we have had non-Western immigration. Well, that's a price too, and we're gonna have to get that to go to zero. But it can go in plus. You can also do calculations on how much richer we could all be if we could get those who are in the country now. The solution is not fantasies that they should never have come and that they should be sent home, because they are here. I fully agree that it is a challenge that we have day care institutions, colleges, etc., which are, it might be said, condensed with a certain ethnicity. The underlying problem is, of course, that we have residential areas that have become so. And again, but we will have to talk about this on Thursday: should we go to the exceptions first, or should we go down in the general rule? And the main rule is that we have created some residential areas where there is too much concentration. We're gonna change that. And I actually think that, uh... I hope Morten Østergaard will be pleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142547	Thank you, the response time has expired a long time ago. Here you go to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142557	Thank you. I will return to the discussion on the agreement 2018 and I will not talk about the lunch break at all, so I also do not expect the Prime Minister to say anything about the lunch break in his reply. But the fact that there is a breakdown in the collective bargaining in the state and municipal areas, even if it is temporary, is something that can have quite major consequences for all of us. So I don't think we can stop dealing with it today. The government's presentation for the negotiations was: you have to run faster, you don't get any more colleagues, you don't get the same wage increases as in private. And when it is the stage, I would say that I do not think it is surprising that it has so far ended in a temporary collapse. Because during the same period as the negotiations, the government has been able to find money for cheaper cars, tax cuts and a discount for rich corporate heirs. And right now we see serious cracks in the welfare that a lot of Danes experience when they cannot get a crèche place for their children, when they themselves have to take time off from work, when their old father does not get proper treatment after the discharge, or when the midwife consultation is saved away. These are serious cracks which affect almost all Danes and which are greatly felt by the nurses who run too fast, by the teachers who cannot reach their jobs, and by the policemen and women who pile up overtime and never manage to leave. And now I would like to come to my question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister in principle: does the Prime Minister believe that public employees do not deserve the same wage development as private employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142748	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142750	Thank you. Another lovely hot speech was made by a former minister in a government about which books were written about orchestrating a lockout. At least we have no plans to do that. In other words, we have a desire to conclude some collective bargaining in a good and proper way. And yes, it is basically an objective that wage developments in the private and public labour markets should be accompanied. That is not a new objective, it is an old objective, and that is and in relation to what it means, that is what you have a negotiating room to clarify. Because it's obvious that you can see from the outside that how to assess that case, among other things. depends on what time perspective you assess it in and that sort of thing. But it must be negotiated in a negotiating room. I have only the ambition that public servants too have good conditions. That is also why we have given public employees the tax concessions we have given. They can feel that on their wallet. This is also why public employees who are going to buy a family car benefit from the fact that it has become cheaper. Well, in my optics, there's no difference here. People are doing useful work, whether they are employed in the public or in the private sector, which is why we must treat them properly as citizens. This is what the government is taking care of, and that is also why we are lifting the service framework for the municipalities in these years, unlike when the questioner himself was a minister in which a reduced service framework was agreed. But there is a lot of memory that has somehow been flushed out in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142934	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227142937	I almost expected the Prime Minister to have used up his good mood, and if he wasn't. I think it has to do with being last or the raisin in the sausage end, or whatever it is, but peace be with it; I am gradually used to it on Tuesdays. What I find interesting is this with the public employees and the balance between the public and the private. Because the thing about thinking that if we push the public, the private will get better, I think is a misunderstood assumption. There is no doubt that if private employees are to go to work safely, then it presupposes that you can return your child to a day care centre and know that there are educators enough to be with the child, or for that matter that your older mother gets good treatment at the hospital while you go to work. It is a matter of security, and I have noticed that the Prime Minister is very concerned about security. This affects a great many people, so I just think that the basic question of whether public employees should not have the same wage developments as private employees should be answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143043	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143044	But that's what I said before, and by the way, my mood is brilliant. And it may well be, because we came to talk about all the achievements of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr during her ministerial period, where some claim that this was an orchestrated intervention towards lockout, so I can just read books about that and where the service framework was reduced ■ stopped against today's speech. Well, I don't know if that's what put me in a good mood, but my mood's fine. And the first question I have answered. In other words, we have the long-term ambition of the Danish labour market and also have mechanisms to ensure that over time there is a parallel wage development between the public and the private labour market. Basically, we have always pursued this. Once again, what that means in a specific contractual period is what we have collective bargaining for. And they can only be carried out if the parties show up. The Minister for Innovation has said that her door is open, and I think she has coffee on her pitcher too. Then you have to show up. And when I ended the meal break before and there was no question of it again, perhaps it is because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also knows very well that what has become, as in some way, a myth in the public debate that there are some who are attacking is a myth. And if getting rid of it can help to promote the good mood, including among the representatives of public servants, so that we can have some negotiations, that would be fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143209	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143211	That was certainly a tangible concession to the public employees, whom they will certainly be pleased with. I am absolutely certain that the Prime Minister does not suffer from history counterfeiting and at least can relate to the fact that the economy in Denmark looked a little different in 2011 than it looks in 2018. When the SF sat in government, we cleaned up after an economic crisis which had not been handled very well by the previous government, and therefore the public budgets looked different; I think the Prime Minister is aware of that. But when it comes to that, I really think that there is a very nasty chasing of the public employees. We've been able to see it with new public management. We have been able to see it from the way people go to public employees in general in relation to management systems and management systems. And that's not the same as saying that SF hasn't been part of it too. I just have to say that sometimes you also get smarter and have to recognise that there are other things that need to be done. So it is also about the approach to public employees, the confidence in them, and I think we need to think about that in other management systems. That's one of them. That is why we have proposed that the Modernisation Agency be closed down. It may seem so much bastant, but it is precisely to get a different approach to public employees. And that could be done, while at the same time getting the agreement fixed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143322	Thank you. And we're just gonna get the last answer and be a little quiet while we get it. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143327	I think there are quite a lot of government employees who would be saddened by the closure of the Modernisation Board. I mean, isn't that where we get our paychecks from once a month, all of us who are employed in the state, the way we who are sitting here are? I think so, so I do not know if that would be a constructive contribution to closing the collective bargaining process. But all that has been said and the controversy aside, in relation to meeting the public employees with confidence, I would like to say that I do not disagree with that. Time does not allow us to go deep into this, but when we have started work on a cohesion reform, which I also hope the minister responsible will soon have time to throw his full energy into when the collective bargaining is concluded, it is, of course, because we too can see that it is becoming wiser or otherwise that there would be enormous potential in releasing some professional freedom in the public sector. There would be enormous potential in creating better governance in the public sector, and there would be enormous potential in regulating, removing bureaucracy and making professionalism go further. It's all easier said than done. In other words, because some people have also said so before, probably also the government of which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself was a member. But now we are actually trying systematically to work on it, and I look forward to being able to come back with that later this year, both with the input from the management committee, in other words with a view to making a management reform, and the other dimensions of this cohesion reform. And if the good atmosphere here today is enough for us to really change the rules of the game, then it will be really, really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143500	Thank you. That concludes Question Time. We will wait a moment to move on to the third readings until everyone is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143631	We shall continue with the agenda. There are today the following reviews: Trine Torp (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the principle of an escalation plan for the discharge of psychopharmaceuticals). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Karen Ellemann) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement dated 27/2 18 on perspective and action plan 2018. R 7). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 23 March 2018. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Jørgen Elikofer as a member and Knud Erik Hansen as an alternate to the Environmental and Food Complaints Board from 22 February 2018 to 31 January 2021 instead of member Torben Hansen and alternate Marie Stærke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143732	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143746	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143809	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143830	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143851	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143917	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143932	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143947	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227143959	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144014	Now we come to the first readings and therefore those who do not want to take part in the negotiations and want to hold talks should do so outside the Parliamentary Chamber. The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144049	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling this resolution. The proposal calls for local authorities to be able to impose local restrictions on their own initiative for a certain period of the year in order to avoid the dangers and disadvantages which water scooters may cause in ports and beaches. The proposal follows on from the initiatives taken by the government in order to prevent insanity with water scooters. Water scooter sailing is currently permitted as a starting point, with some exceptions. The police may prohibit, inter alia: water scooter within a specified shorter distance from coastal lines, if deemed necessary. Several police circles have done so. In ports, it follows from the rules of order that water scooter and the like are prohibited, so it requires prior permission from the port authority if you want to sail with water scooter in a port, and water scooters are not allowed to sail in Natura 2000 areas, in protected areas and in game reserves on the maritime territory. Outside these protected natural areas, a protection zone of 300 metres off the coast must be able to transport oneself out of the zone with its water scooter or similar vessel in a line perpendicular to the coast and at low speed. Thus, there are already possibilities in the legislation to limit water scooter sailing both at beaches and in ports, but after the very tragic accident in Copenhagen Harbour in August 2017, the government has per. 1 January introduced the requirement that drivers of inter alia: Water scooters and speedboats must have a special proof. In order to get one of these, you have to be 16 years old and carry out a practical and theoretical test. In the near future, the Minister for Economic Affairs will present a draft law proposing that a liability insurance scheme be drawn up for water scooters and for certain speedboats. It is also proposed to increase the possibility of confiscating the vessels used due to madness or repeated offences. The proposal now put forward by the Danish People's Party is a complement to the rules already in force and the future possibilities for regulating the navigation of water scooters and similar fast-moving vessels. The Danish People's Party proposes that the municipal council should be able to draw up rules or regulations on its own initiative so that there can be local restrictions for water scooters during certain periods of the year. In this way, the municipal council which so wishes can, on the basis of its close knowledge of local conditions, set itself the limits it considers necessary. With DF's proposal, it is suggested that the municipal council does not need to have a dialogue with the police circle or with the local port authority first if it wants to limit the navigation of water scooter. The Government welcomes the proposal and will therefore work to ensure that the municipal council is given the opportunity of taking decisions of its own motion. This can be done by amending the Nature Conservation Act. I note that the Free Air Council and five of the recreational organisations have written to the committee that they consider the motion for a resolution superfluous, as there are already the necessary possibilities to limit water scooter sailing. Instead, they believe that there should be more control over the sailing, not only with water scooters, but also with speedboats. The motion for a resolution is not, in my view, there are other types of vessels that can be almost as annoying and even dangerous to open air. It can, for example, be done. be jet skis and speedboats, including water skiers and the like. Therefore, the government would like to see whether we cannot extend the scope of the municipal council so that it can also impose restrictions on certain other speedy, noisy and potentially dangerous vessels at beaches and in ports. The Government will examine how DF's proposals can be part of an appropriate interaction with the opportunities already available to municipalities, port boards and police circles to limit the insanity of the sea in ports and beaches. In addition, we need to examine what the rules should look like so that, on the one hand, we take into account the general quiet and calm outdoor life in the ports and beaches, and, on the other hand, we ensure that the proposal does not conflict with the rules of EU law on technical barriers to trade. It is a good proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward. We need to do our legal homework properly, and it takes a little time, so I expect that we will be able to present a legislative proposal in the next session. I look forward to the continuation of the debate on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144452	Thank you, Minister. We go to the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144501	Thank you. Today we are going to consider a proposal from the Danish People's Party to allow municipal councils to limit the navigation of water scooter in the ports and on the beaches. Sailing with water scooter must take place in just as orderly conditions as any other traffic with motorized vessels. A water scooter accident like the one we saw in the harbour of Copenhagen must not be repeated. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also ready to see whether more can be done to avoid accidents in the future. We in the Social Democratic Party are aware that it should not be the case that a general or permanent ban is allowed, because it is our view that it would be contrary to the principles of the free movement of goods within the European Union. However, with this motion for a resolution, the municipal councils will be able to limit the use of water scooters for a limited period of time if the municipality considers that there is a legitimate concern to take into account safety. We think it makes sense for the municipalities to have this opportunity, since it is they who have knowledge of local conditions and thus also of possible challenges with hasty sailing close to places, for example, where families bathe from the beach or in the harbour. Unfortunately, the police do not have the resources to be present on the water at all times, which is why we also believe that a temporary ban on the movement of water scooter in ports and beaches can help to increase the safety and security of guests in the area. However, in our opinion, the proposal does not solve the whole problem. There must continue to be a focus on monitoring compliance with the rules for the use of water scooters, just as we believe that there is a great responsibility on those who are distributors of water scooters to convey knowledge of what good behaviour with the water scooter you have just bought is, as any water scooter associations also have a great responsibility to lift. But with all that said, just the short conclusion: the Social Democrats support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144719	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. We move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144729	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to allow municipal councils on their own initiative to lay down local rules for a limited period of the year in order to avoid the possible risks that water scooters may cause in ports and beaches. Water scooters can, if used ruthlessly, pose a great danger to bathers and people in canoes and kayaks, and this is therefore a very relevant issue raised by the proposers here. In view of the terrible accident we witnessed in Copenhagen Harbour in August 2017, it seems sensible to allow for more local regulation of the water scooters. This proposal also complements the initiatives already taken in the wake of the accident, and it is important for the Left that tourists, bathers and others who wish to take advantage of our ports and beaches should feel safe by going there. Repeated examples of madness with boats and water scooters have unfortunately shown that there is a national problem with thoughtless use of water scooters and other vessels. A number of initiatives have already been taken in this area, as the government naturally wants to put an end to the problem, and that is why the Left also supports the forthcoming amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, so that we can put an end to this kind of annoying and dangerous movement, regardless of the vessel involved. The Left therefore supports the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do, because of course we want it to be safe to go to Danish ports and beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144909	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. And we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227144920	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs and the Minister have already explained what the proposal is actually about, namely to impose restrictions on the general authorisation of water scooters in Danish ports and beaches. It has also been pointed out in the comments to the motion for a resolution that the resolution must, of course, resolve the problem of the lack of control and, in fact, that is the problem. I would like to make the point that the motion for a resolution quite rightly points out that general restrictions must not be imposed on water scooters. And that cannot be done because of EU law. This contrasts with what was in force before 2010, i.e. before the well-known Supreme Court ruling in this area from November 2010. Before that there was a general ban on water scooters on Danish territorial waters. It then changed the Supreme Court with reference to EU law, so that it can almost be said that things were turned upside down. Now there was a general authorisation to carry out water scooters, as there were some restrictions, as the Minister has also explained, in relation to protected natural areas and such things, including a protection line of 300 metres from the coast, etc. etc. The motion for a resolution should then allow the local authorities to derogate from the general authorisation, but typically for a limited period of time. And we regard this at least in the Enhedslisten as an excellent attempt, we think, to bypass the Supreme Court ruling and EU rules, because we must not impose general restrictions on sailing. We can say that, and that is also why I say that I think it is important that the comments on the motion for a resolution point out that it should solve the problem of the lack of control • that the police have the powers far along the way today, have the tools in the toolbox in various areas. And that is why, I think, we might also be talking about kicking in an open door. It can be said that the fact that municipalities are given the competence to impose restrictions on the navigation of water scooters for a limited period of time does not solve the problem of the lack of resources of the police. And when I think of some of the major police circles that cover more ports and more fjords, it may in fact be the case that there is no material to deal with illegal water-scooting around the maritime territory. After all, the government has initiated a series of measures in this area, including driving licences, the possibility of confiscation of water scooters and higher penalties for crazy sailing. And I also note that for example. The Copenhagen Police Department has also indicated that they will be 50%. more present in the harbour of Copenhagen. But we still do not think that this solves the problem of the lack of resources, which is, of course, the problem, as the resolution also points out. We have also noted the request from the Free Air Council, which basically does not believe that there is a need for any more rules; we really believe that we have the tools to do so. And in the joint request from the Free Air Council and other organisations, a dialogue is also being initiated with the Committee on the Environment and Food on how to ensure tighter control, because that is the problem. And we think it might be interesting and worth noting that we are actually getting it into committee work so that we have that dialogue. I think it was an idea to invite them to talk during the committee work, where we ask what they imagine. Because the police have the resources they have. So it could be really interesting to hear. But there is no doubt that there is a positive attitude on the part of the Enhedslisten on the resolution. We think it is a very good signal to send. Perhaps we just do not think that the problems of the lack of resources in this area should be solved entirely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145430	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. We move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145436	Thank you. I believe that a great many Danes have actually experienced either directly or indirectly being harassed by people on water scooters. These are people who can't figure out how to behave and take care of themselves when you're hurling around on a water scooter either in ports or at beaches. Most often the meeting with such a water scooter thug only results in a really bad experience, but as we unfortunately experienced last summer, and as has already been mentioned several times here from the platform, it can also have quite different and much more fatal consequences as it has for the two young American students in the harbour of Copenhagen. So even if, like myself, you have not directly had a bad experience with annoying water scooters, the example from the harbour of Copenhagen makes the problem extremely topical. I therefore believe that it is so clear that changes need to be made, but it is also important to bear in mind that it is far from being in all places that problems are experienced. I therefore believe that the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is very wise to suggest that it is the individual municipal council that decides how they will regulate the use of water scooters locally. Completely banning water scooters in Denmark would be a clear reaction, as the vast majority of users of water scooters can easily find the respect and consideration that has to be given to other sailors and bathing guests around the Danish beaches and in the Danish ports. In addition, there are also large local differences. In fact, there may well be places where you can easily sail on water scooters without bothering anyone, whereas it is much harder, for example. Port of Copenhagen. The Liberal Alliance is therefore very positive about the proposal. I also think that I have noted earlier that it was also the Minister and that the Minister would work to put forward a bill at a later stage in order to change the legislation. We shall look forward to this because, as I said, we agree with the content and intention of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145720	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. And we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145727	Thank you. There have been some serious accidents with water scooters in recent years, which is why it is natural to consider possible tightenings. The Danish People's Party proposes here that competence be transferred to the municipalities to impose restrictions on specific areas at ports and beaches. This is in line with the alternative's approach to giving greater freedom to municipalities to decide for themselves. On the other hand, the rules seem fairly clear and the powers of the police in the Order are also fairly clear and sufficient, so perhaps there is a need for better enforcement, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, or perhaps some technical solutions. But it is in line with our approach that the municipalities are given greater freedom to regulate things, including this kind of thing. So we take a very positive view of the proposal, but we would like to hear the authors of the motion for a resolution on what they think we can get out of the amendment that the motion for a resolution builds up more specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145836	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. We move on to Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145841	This is a very important issue that we are dealing with right now. Because that is the discussion about what we should do about, among other things. those water scooters who have terrorized people in our ports and at our beaches, and who have caused a lot of people to experience very, very aggressive movements around, without any action being taken against them. Unfortunately, we have also seen a terrible accident in the harbour of Copenhagen last summer, which I think is in the stomach of really, very many of us, and which was an eye-opener and something that made the whole country understand how violent this is, and not just for those who are near the harbor every day. So it is a good proposal from the Danish People's Party today, and I think it is a good idea to give the municipalities extended powers to be able to impose restrictions, both in ports and at beaches, so that action can be taken here. So it is clear that the part that is going to be really important is the enforcement part, so that something is actually being done and done when you see this movement. So we hope that the Minister will also give us an indication of how this can be followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227145957	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150004	With the motion for a resolution, municipal councils can limit the general authorisation to carry water scooter to limited periods in Danish ports and beaches. The proposal is an attempt to solve the problems of insecurity-building navigation and, indeed, water transport, which in some cases have had very serious consequences. It is a good and very real intention and there is much to suggest that there is a need for action here. As the Minister has already mentioned, the government has played out with a special watermobile licence and information campaigns, and the possibility of confiscating water scooters is being explored. These are all fine initiatives, but they may only form part of the solution, which is why this resolution can also be relevant. At the same time, the request from the Free Air Council is of course also worth noting, as other organisations point out, that it is primarily better control that is needed. If the rules or the administration of the rules significantly restrict the use of water scooters, this could be a quantitative restriction on trade, which is illegal under Union law, because in its practical consequence it would correspond to a ban on the sale of water scooters in Denmark. The national rules must therefore not go beyond what is necessary, which was the problem with the old rules which the Supreme Court knew illegal, but with the B proposal it is being countered by making the limitation in the general permit for water scooters temporary. So in the SF we are positive about the proposal and the good intentions in it, and we are ready to support it and see if it can help to help the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150155	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150203	Thank you, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs and thank the Minister for this brief but precise debate. With the motion for a resolution, we in the Danish Parliament are deciding whether municipal councils can limit the general permission to sail with water scooter in Danish ports and at designated beaches. The aim is to ensure the regulation of fast-track vessels in order to minimise the risk of serious road accidents at sea, with a particular focus on the safety of recreational boats. Before a Supreme Court ruling in 2010, there was a total ban on sailing with water scooter except in two places, but the Supreme Court considered that a total ban was contrary to EU law on the free movement of goods because it was a technical barrier to trade. On the basis of the Supreme Court's ruling, the then government chose to overimplement EU rules so that a total ban was transformed into an all-encompassing authorisation. That is what the motion for a resolution is about to make up for. Since the beginning of the ship era, Denmark has been one of the leading countries on the oceans, where we have proudly shown Dannebrog everywhere. Denmark is a great maritime nation, and most Danes have had some connection to the seas and water around Denmark. Especially our 8.750 km long coastline allows us to get on the water and enjoy life at sea. The longest distance to the water for all of us Danes is a maximum of 52 km, so we all have the opportunity to experience the pleasures of the sea within approx. 45 minutes. It is therefore natural that many of us like to be on the water and therefore buy boats and are at sea. Kayaks, rowing boats, sailboats and speedboats are among other things. some of those who sail many of, and in recent years also jet skis and water scooters have come in. The latter two, of course, because they give the driver and passengers a unique feeling, as there is the possibility of getting up to enormously high speeds on the water. But because these new boat types can sail so fast, it is important that we focus on road safety on the water. The two tragic fatal accidents in 2017 made this particularly clear. Here, crazy sailing with water scooter in the harbour of Copenhagen led to the unfortunate death of two American women aged 18 and 21 years. The Danish People's Party has taken the initiative in this resolution because we believe it is important to limit the flow of water scooter at certain times of the year at popular beaches and in trafficked ports. The Danish People's Party has already voted in favour of stricter rules for speedboat sailing, water scooter and the like, and in the future a water scooter driver must also have a water scooter certificate and compulsory liability insurance. But we also know from car traffic that, although people do not have a driving licence or insurance, they still drive cars. Since 2010, there have been many reports from our operators in the ports, and especially the harbour cruise boats in the harbour of Copenhagen have had difficulty, as they have often seen water scooters sail directly against them at very high speeds and only turn off at the last moment. That is what happened in the accident in the harbour of Copenhagen. But in many previous cases it had been just before, and it may well go wrong. These companies have often reported this to police and port authorities, but since nothing has been done and no resources have been available to sail and stop this madness, nothing has happened. In DF we would like to stress that we are pleased that in future it will be possible to confiscate the water scooter by judgment for madness sailing. These are good measures, but not enough. The motion for a resolution calls for a more restrictive line to be taken by preventive action. The motion for a resolution makes it easy for the authorities to document a violation of the prohibition zone and to issue a fine. We can't have a wild west at sea. We must all be able to walk safely and safely on the water, and we must also recognise that it can be difficult to comply with the rules, as it is always exciting for young people to sail close to the bathers and sailing to show off a little. It can also be OK if you are on your way to the sailing areas 300 m outside at the speed otherwise allowed at the location in question. But when you sail up to ten times the permitted speed in narrow harbours and cut close to other boats and bathers, things become dangerous, and therefore the unfortunate thing happened when the two American girls so tragically lost their lives last summer. Finally, I would like to thank both the Minister and all the rapporteurs for the good debate and to mention that we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased that there is support for the resolution, so that we have thus come a significant step closer to stopping madness in the summer season at our beaches and lovely ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150736	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150801	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227150814	Thank you for that, President. Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Alternative and SF have tabled motions to update the Danish environmental zone rules so that from 1 July 2019 trucks, buses and large vans will comply with the latest Euronorm 6 and that the environmental zone rules will be extended to several municipalities. In addition, the government is invited to provide the municipalities with the legal basis for setting emission requirements for non-road workstations. The Government agrees with the aim of the resolution to promote cleaner air for Danes and reduce the health costs of air pollution. However, the government cannot support the resolution as it stands. Denmark has experienced a marked fall in air pollution over the past 30 years. Both air quality measurements and emissions inventories show a continuous fall in pollution, and the latest Air Monitoring Report of October 2016 confirms that air quality in Denmark is overall among the best in Europe. Although much has been done to improve air quality in Denmark, I agree with the proposers that the current health costs and loss of good years of life due to air pollution remain too high. Air pollution, however, is cross-border and is transported in a few days over long distances. In Denmark, foreign sources, including international shipping, are responsible for 70-80 per cent. of the negative health effects. On the part of the government, therefore, we consider it essential to promote common EU regulation and international regulation that reduces air pollution across borders. The problem cannot be solved in Denmark alone. The Government therefore focuses on the fact that the environmental impact of new initiatives must be commensurate with the costs involved. We will take action with the initiatives that make the best sense. We are therefore working for ambitious international requirements for discharges from international shipping and for effective international enforcement, so as to ensure fair competition between shipping companies. In Denmark, we have strengthened control and surveillance efforts, and this has borne fruit, so the sulphur content in the air over Denmark has more than halved since 2015. The government has also given priority to ensuring that the new vehicles sold in the EU are least polluting the air. We are working hard to reduce actual emissions from cars so that they meet the Euro standards, not only in the test situation, but also when they are driving on the roads. This must be done by requiring as realistic tests as possible and by providing us with much better control over car manufacturers. This applies to passenger cars, trucks, vans and workstations. The Danish environmental zones introduced in Copenhagen in 2008 in Aalborg in 2009 and in Odense and Aarhus in 2010 have played an important role in getting the most polluting vehicles out of the largest cities and remain a safeguard against the oldest trucks entering the major cities of Denmark. The motion for a resolution contains far-reaching restrictions when the proposal calls for all vehicles covered by the environmental zones to comply with the latest Euronorm 6 as from 1 July 2019. The proposal also proposes to tighten up the environmental zone rules for large commercial vehicles. It should be pointed out in this connection that Euronorm 6 came into force just four years ago for lorries and buses and for vans less than two years ago. The cost of the proposed tightenings can therefore be high for a number of hauliers who will have to speed up the replacement of their trucks or invest in particulate filters. In addition, the proposal could affect less entrepreneurs in cities, such as: has a large van of the Euronorm 5 type, which may be just 3-4 years old. This proposal would mean that owners of almost new vans would have to buy a brand new car or invest in particle filters. As I said at the outset, the government would like to promote initiatives that ensure cleaner air for the Danes, but this must be done through initiatives that ensure a balance between environmental effects and costs, and not by imposing disproportionate costs on business. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. However, the Government would like to initiate social and economic calculations in order to assess whether a more appropriate update of the environmental zone rules can be made. With that I will leave the floor to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151226	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151230	Thank you. The minister says that the newest Euronorm came into force just four years ago, and so it was not so long ago that it was changed. But I would like to ask what the Minister thinks when I point out that when Anders Fogh Rasmussen made the environmental zones, he actually said that two years after the new Euronorm came, one should have changed. Wouldn't it be very nice to follow his example and say that two years later, you have changed to the latest technology? Doesn't it make much sense to do what Anders Fogh Rasmussen did back then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151300	The government does not necessarily base its policy on what has been done in the past. We are dealing with the reality we are today and that is why the government is rejecting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151310	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151310-2	Yes, but since there is a new technology and it is actually possible both to put it on existing vehicles and to make sure that new vehicles have the • many have already done it out there • is it not a very good idea simply to put pressure on the change? If you do not think you have enough figures today on how it looks, could we not ask the Minister to come up with some up-to-date calculations on what the effect of making this shift to Euronorm 6 would be and what it would cost the industry, what it would benefit society and perhaps benefit both tourism and also the big business that we have working with air pollution? Couldn't we ask the Minister to do some fair, up-to-date calculations so we can see the total?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151351-2	Now I do not know whether Mrs Ida Auken was a little unaware of the last of the gold grains I delivered in my speech. In fact, I said there that the government would like to carry out social and economic calculations. So we'd like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151404	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151407	Concerns all those who die every year from air pollution, for example. in Copenhagen and other major cities, right? You can just mount particulate filters. You don't have to go out and buy a new truck. I agree that would be very costful. But you can actually do something else, and the technology is here. Should we not take care of the health of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151428-2	Yes, we do, and I am also concerned that we have the number of deaths we have, and I also said this in my speech that there are many who have good years of life shortened. That's also why the government is active on this field. After all, we are very concerned about reducing the air pollution that comes to us internationally, but of course also about looking at other things. That is also why I am giving the outstretched hand that we would like to launch social and economic calculations to assess whether we can make some more appropriate updates to the environmental zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151457	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151501	In other words, the air pollution we are experiencing in the inner city comes largely from the vehicles that are there. It's not about something that's flunking down from internationally. So I would just like to stress that I really think this proposal is quite peaceful. It is about following technological developments, about grasping it and ensuring that we protect the population from pollution that can be life-threatening. I see that there is an outstretched hand, but I very much hope that the Minister will try to ensure that we can land as close to what we are proposing here as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151534	I certainly regard the opposition's proposals as peaceable... the opposition is almost a little lazy in this debate... and that is only positive, because we see the same thing about the problems, but not necessarily about how they should be solved. We will work seriously with the Danish Parliament's parties on how to possibly look at these challenges. Because we agree: something needs to be done about air pollution, and the government is very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151556	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151558	Thank you. I'm just wondering how we make good legislation. And I'm thinking that if we could adopt some scheme, so this was automatically updated... I guess that's one of the things that lies in this proposal... the business community would actually be advised four years in advance. Then they know that it will be four years, then there will be a new Euronorm 7, and then they will have to have a vehicle that can live up to it in order to drive into the big cities. Would that not be very good legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151631-2	I'm very preoccupied with good legislation, just like Mr. Knox. Christian Poll. That is also why we want to look at the social and economic consequences of changing Euronorms. When we have looked at it, we will consider how and what it might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151645	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151701	Thank you. We have to consider a proposal from the Alternative, Enhedslisten, SF and Radical Left to tighten up the requirements for the particulate emissions of heavy vehicles within the environmental zones of the largest Danish cities. In the Social Democratic Party we very much welcome the debate and the initiative for it. We also agree that the rules for environmental zones need to be updated. Urban air pollution is harmful to the health of our citizens. There are people dying prematurely as a result of contaminated air, and it costs health care billions of dollars to treat those who become ill with air pollution. Technological developments make it possible to reduce particulate pollution from heavy-duty vehicles. That is why, of course, it is also natural that the requirements for our vehicles should be increased over time. The time for an update has been reached, as the requirements have not been updated since 2006. In the Social Democratic Party we want to help to see how best to tighten up the requirements of the environmental zones, but we are not ready to adopt the Euronorm as a requirement for driving in the environmental zones in the way it has been put forward in the proposal. We would like to have the environmental zones evaluated first and know the effects of different degrees of stricter requirements for particulate emissions. We would like to see action coming soon in this area, but we would also like to be sure of the consequences of our actions and not just help to oblige the government to introduce the highest possible requirements as soon as possible. That is why I also took note of what the Minister called his last grain of gold, namely that studies and calculations of the consequences and possibilities will now be initiated, with a view to the fact that, as I heard at least, political discussions can be initiated to update the environmental zones. So, in this context, I would actually recommend that we come up with a sensible report on this important subject and bring together the parties to take initiatives in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151910	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151912	Thank you very much for the positive reception of the proposal. That is also why we have it in the Parliamentary Chamber; it is simply to get some speed on this, because it is therefore too long we have been about updating the environmental zones. Does the Social Democrat rapporteur not think that it is very clever to deal with the new rules, because what vehicles should be able to do, and that it is like Euronorm 6 that you use when you look at what needs to be done for the big vans, for buses and for trucks? And does the rapporteur not think that it is very reasonable to ask the polluters to pay when it is they who make the air pollution, and thus the Copenhageners and Danes who pay with their health?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227151947-2	I fully agree with this and that is why I very much welcome the debate and welcome the fact that the pace is now necessary, because it has been so long since the environmental zones were actually introduced, but now we have to be able to update them, and of course we also think that the new standards that are available should be applied. What we are simply arresting in relation to the actual implementation of the resolution is the pace of that. There is a desire on our part for knowledge about the consequences of it and about the possibilities of doing so in a cost-effective way, so it is also realistic for those people who have some of these vehicles, i.e. there is a reasonable possibility of phasing them out, etc. etc. However, it does not remove the political desire on our part to be able to update the demands broadly and jointly with the parties of the Folketing, which was behind the 2006 law. We would very much like to take part in this, which is why it is also positive that we have this debate today. There are too many people who simply die because we are doing too little and we must stand together to do something. But we have to do it intelligently.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152055	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152056	Thank you. It can be said that when the first environmental zone was created, two years were given to meet the new requirements. Isn't 2 years a very reasonable time frame? That is, of course, because this proposal has been on its way in committee and elsewhere for 1⁄2 years, and we could say: let us push it 1⁄2 more years, so it is not until 2020 that we have to be able to do this. Is it not a very reasonable timeframe to say that the new requirements actually came in 2015 and that by 2020 we have to meet the new standards? That must be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152131	First of all, I think it would be reasonable for us to be sure of the consequences of what we might be setting in motion. I think that's what Mr. Christian Poll's comment to the Minister a short time ago on good legislation is the whole foundation for being able to conduct this debate as well. Can we not then introduce requirements which are relatively fast in force? Yes, you can. I think that, in relation to Euronorm 6, we should think about and have a clearer basis before it is introduced here and now. However, there are other rules that can be adopted and applied within a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152207	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152217	Thank you. After all, both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur have explained a little about what the proposal is about. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I must say that we do not support the proposal. We are concerned about the fact that, of course, we must have as clean air as possible, including in the cities. Then we have these special environmental zones where, of course, there must also be development. I think it is very positive that the Minister is now going to make a new calculation. I appreciate that; I think that makes good sense. I also think that what the Socialist rapporteur said, namely that we could make an evaluation of what has already happened, would be very good; I am very pleased about that too. Then we can see whether the developments that have taken place in the last ten years since the first environmental zone has arrived have had any effect whatsoever, which we, of course, all expect it to have. That's one thing. The second thing I want to say is that when I read such a proposal, I may sometimes think that one forgets that there is another side of the matter and not that the economy should always be the first thing one thinks about, but I know personally that when you go out and order a truck, it costs some money, it costs a fair amount of money. If it's a special truck, it costs a lot of money. I have even had a family member who had a specially fitted truck, which was delivery time, and because there was delivery time, he could not enter to work in Copenhagen during that period, because he could not get a derogation. That is what can happen; it can happen to all, small and large. But it just has a consequence on the other end. When you make a proposal saying that all lorries over 3,500 kg must comply with the Euro 6 standards and that buses over 3,500 kg must comply with the Euro 6 standards, and in addition to the fact that large goods vehicles over 1,760 kg must also comply with the Euro 6 standards, it is a big printing, at least in my optics, in relation to the replacement that needs to be made, even if you get some years to do so. When people buy new cars, they typically buy the latest on the market, but they also expect that such a car has a lifetime and that you have some depreciation on it etc. After all, you have to be able to pay your loans. However, I think it is positive that we have some new calculations and that we may be able to assess whether something should happen. I think that is a good thing, and we in the Danish People's Party think that is a good thing. However, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152451	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152453	I think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party takes it very lightly. In other words, you are more concerned with truck owners, who need to spend some money on not polluting than you are concerned with, for example, that there is. In the city we're in right now, 550 are premature deaths and 33,000 sick days. That is something that costs 4.5 billion. kr. on the other end, and there is a population out there that pays with their health. That's the other side of this story. There we say: there must be a level playing field and everyone who has to drive in this town must have the latest technology. And then it may be that our goods will be one penny more expensive. We know that when we're finally in the supermarket. But I think we'd rather do that than pay with our health. Does it really not concern the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that that side of the medal is out there, in other words that there is a population out there who is currently paying with their health and their quality of life?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152541	Yes, and I actually thought I was expressing that too. I just think there are two sides to a case. And we can highlight one side very much, namely that there are of course some that are affected by these things. Well, if it were me personally, I would never live with my children in Copenhagen. I wash off the windowsills myself in the apartment I've been made available in here, and I know how dirty there is. So living with kids in here maybe not exactly what I'd do. Then, of course, you can choose to say that then all cars will have to leave, and we must ban all wood-burning furnaces inside Copenhagen, because they also pose a problem. It is not because I want to neglect the problem at all, but I think it should also be borne in mind that there is also a cost at the other end and that things will not be solved with a snap. That is also why I think it is positive that the Minister is now prepared to make some new calculations: what effect have we had and is there anything we can do? And yes, of course there is always something we can do, but it also costs some money, and then you have to decide whether you are willing to pay the amount that I do not know at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152643	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152644	I think that was a rather wild answer, that is to say that all families of children living in Copenhagen are themselves involved and that the rapporteur did not want to live in here with his children. So, are we supposed to say that then they have to move out of town, or can we expect the vehicles entering the city to have the best standard? I think it is quite crazy to say to the citizens in here that you would not live here with your children, and then not immediately say that something must be done about the traffic we know we can do something about ourselves. We know that we can do something about heavy vehicles; we can do something about trucks, buses and vans, which will have a positive effect and be a very important gain for the people. I still think that is a little bit to draw on the shoulders of all the people who live with their children in the cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152728	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152728-2	Thank you. In other words, it is certainly not because I neglect the problem, but one also has an opportunity as a person to make some choices. And that's why I'm saying that personally I wouldn't live in here with my kids. It's a choice that I personally make. It is not because I want to neglect the problem, because of course there is some air pollution, but it is also clear that the more people living together, the more cars there are, the more emissions there is, the more pollution there is. That's the way it is. That's why wood stoves may not be the big problem in the countryside, but is it in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152804	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152806	Following on from what Mrs Ida Auken said: is it not the rapporteur's view that we have a political responsibility to ensure that children's families too can live in Copenhagen without there being any danger to health? I fully recognise that there is another side, but that is why I thought it was so positive that in Lastbil Magasinet, where this proposal has been debated, one could read that there is technology that can also be retrofitted on trucks, so that it is not a huge printing, but so that it is in this sense to take responsibility also to impose on those who have trucks a responsibility to reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152858	We always have a balance of where to do what, and that is really just what I am trying to explain with my poor abilities, namely that there are two sides to a case. On the other hand, there's some pollution in here. We all know that. There is more pollution in Copenhagen than there is in the countryside, at least in relation to the particles emitted by cars because there is more traffic. That's logic. And, of course, we must try to do something, but I also think it is up to us to legislate to impose an expense on people who have a business, so that they might have to close their business. Because that's what we're talking about. And when Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd talks about the retrofitting of filters on trucks, it is also known to me that it is a fairly high cost where you have to put somewhere between DKr 30,000 and DKr 60,000. to get such a retrofitting done, a little depending on what it is. Well, that's a printing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152952	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227152953	Yes, it is, and that is also why we have a phase-in which I really think is quite peaceful. That is not what we are saying to be implemented tomorrow. Then there is also the possibility of saving money to buy the technology that can make us face up to our responsibilities, not to bring pollution down to zero, but at least to take the initiatives that result from technological development, so that we basically protect public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153019	I don't really disagree. In fact, it is one of the few places where I think the European Union makes sense, i.e. when you make these standards for cars and their development and for what they have to derive from particles and pollution or whatever it is. Because we know that we are buying them, we know that we have them for a long time, but we also know that it is a major investment. Then I am well aware that new technology is coming all the time and that we are also politically pressing for the latest of the new. But if we are to push for it by saying that then we should also replace it in a certain cadence, then perhaps I just think it is a slightly larger decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153101	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. And we go further in the line of rapporteurs to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153118	Thank you. Denmark has in recent years approx. Twenty years have seen a clear improvement in air quality, so that today we are among the best in Europe. And even if it goes the right way, we must, of course, continue to work for the less air pollution that is possible and realistic. And, of course, this must be done with initiatives that provide as much clean air as possible for the money. Today we are discussing a proposal on stricter requirements for environmental zones and requirements for non-road working tools, and the impact of the proposal on the reduction of NO x Companies, which will continue their work in the country's environmental zones, will be affected by additional costs either for example. better particulate filters or catalysts or new vehicles that are affected by these new raised requirements. This can lead to restrictions for various shops, restaurants etc. in the environmental zones. This will affect business, but also those who live and move in environmental areas. Public construction projects can become more expensive and take longer. So there are also a number of considerations to be taken into account. The proposal is a disproportionate burden for few, but without delivering the results. And then we also know that 70-80 percent. The effect of air pollution in Denmark comes from abroad and, as it were, blows over Denmark, so far only heavy vehicles are the source of the pollution that actually comes. And even though the Left shares the ambition of reducing air pollution, we will take action where it works and therefore we cannot support the resolution as it stands. Then I should like to welcome from Conservatives that they too cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153311	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153313	I'd like to ask Mr. Erling Bonnesen, how much the current environmental zone helps. How much does it work? And is it important? Is it important that we have an environmental zone in Copenhagen or in our cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153328	But, of course, we support the environmental zones as there are. We in the Left have helped to introduce them. I am therefore delighted, as I have indicated here in the rapporteur's speech, that we generally have a good high level when it comes to having clean air. Of course, we still have to pay attention to the developments that are taking place, and I hear that the Minister is looking at this and is constantly looking at it. I also think it should be welcomed that we generally have a good, high level when we talk clean air.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153357	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153358	Well, then, the rapporteur must be concerned that from 2018 the environmental zones will no longer have any effect according to Aarhus University, as I know Mr. Erling Bonnesen appreciates very much. So it has to worry the rapporteur if you are happy that there are environmental zones that they no longer have any effect in 2018. Does that not concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153419	As I have already replied, we are fully behind the environmental areas that are there and the actions that have been implemented so far. We ourselves, in the Left, have been behind them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153429	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153439	Air pollution in many Danish cities is a major problem. According to the Ecological Council, around 300-500 people die a year just in Copenhagen because of traffic congestion. On top of that, we must then lay down the very many diseases that affect people as a result of air pollution. This, of course, is not something we can live with, and that is why this resolution is so important to adopt, precisely because it is a really crucial step in the right direction. With the motion for a resolution, a number of parties want to oblige the government to update the rules on environmental zones so that they will actually have an effect and protect public health. What lies in the proposal is that the rules should be updated to follow technological developments in the car industry. And it may actually seem a little strange that the current rules in the environmental zones have not automatically followed technological developments. That is why I think it is very good that we are dealing today with a resolution to correct this omission. Of course, it is not only in Copenhagen and in Denmark's major cities that there are problems with air pollution. That is why we also want to open up with the resolution that more municipalities can assess that they want a clean air zone, that they want inner city areas where they have tools to reduce pollution. The proposal allows for the introduction of so-called clean air zones where stricter requirements can be imposed on emissions of NO x. Because we cannot be served by having a car park or a truck park or a bus park if there is something called it "which makes it harmful to health to stay in our urban spaces, i.e. the vehicles that this resolution hits. As early as 2015, all new trucks and buses have had to comply with requirements for compliance with Euro 6 requirements, and the resolution sets out environmental zones requiring Euro 6 with effect from 2019. So this means a phase-in of four years, compared to when this technology became available. And that's fair. It is also important to stress, as I think there has been a debate about this on the basis of this motion for a resolution, that you can then retrofit the retrofitting, I think, so that you can retrofit a particulate filter so that even trucks with a lower standard can be upgraded technologically to meet these new requirements. I think that is important to say, because it is a big investment for road hauliers to go out and buy a truck. But you can continue with the car park you have and then get particulate filter retrofitted so that you meet the new requirements. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to build on what is a very good idea, namely that we have environmental zones. It is more strictly and linguistically accurate, I think, to call them clean air zones in the inner cities, where you get some tools that make you able to say: if you pollute a lot, you cannot drive here. We in the Enhedslist are very pleased with the proposal, and we are very pleased to have put it forward with the Radicals, the SF and the Alternative, and we hope that we will at least be able to move forward in this direction with the outstretched hand, I understand there is from the Minister and also from the Social Democrats, to move forward in the committee in order to really raise the demands of our clean air zones, so that in the future they too will have the effect that I hear we are all interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227153839	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating in this Chamber today has basically a very sensible purpose: to ensure cleaner air and reduce air pollution, especially in cities, and that is a purpose that may be very difficult to disagree with, even though the latest monitoring report of 2016 shows that Danish air quality is indeed among the best in Europe. Although there has been a fall in air pollution for a number of years, we are all aware of the health costs of air pollution in this Chamber, and it therefore makes perfect sense to make an effort to improve air quality, and we in the Liberal Alliance would very much like to do so. Having said all that, unfortunately, in the Liberal Alliance we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution. It's not just going to hit these old osier boxes that we see in the city picture, and which we probably all wanted to phase out. No, the cost of the austerity proposed here will particularly affect small traders and hauliers, who are forced to also replace their relatively new vans and trucks or invest in particulate filters. Here I believe that the cost is simply not in proportion to the environmental impact that will be achieved. The proposal is particularly wrong because, as far as I am aware, the Euro 6 standard came into force only four years ago for lorries and buses and for vans less than two years ago. And that is why certain parts of the economy, for example: I believe that this is not a viable solution, and the Liberal Alliance believes that this would be a major burden on the industry and industry in general. In addition, air pollution is very much cross-border, and it is to a large extent foreign sources and international shipping that accounts for most of the negative health effects of air pollution. This does not mean that we should not tackle the problems of air pollution at national level. However, for the Liberal Alliance, it is important that the overall solutions are initially found internationally, as this is an international problem to a large extent. At the same time, it is also important in the view of the Liberal Alliance that solutions should not end up unilaterally imposing on Danish industry the high costs that go with it, for example. Replace vehicle fleet etc. As has already been mentioned, air pollution over the last 30 years has been significantly reduced by various and quite excellent measures. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the initiatives that have already been taken to address problems of air pollution in Danish cities. We have, for example. I think that Danish wood stove owners have taken advantage of an effective scrapping scheme for older wood stoves, which I think is well over 20,000. In this connection, I have also asked the Minister to make a statement on the geographical distribution of these funds, and I hope that we will also get it at the earliest opportunity. It would be meaningful to look at whether it might be necessary to repeat that scheme in order at least to phase out certain parts of other sources of air pollution in cities. We also welcome the government's efforts to create common European rules on emissions from, among others, the environment. cars, industry, large combustion plants and from 2022 precisely also from wood-burning furnaces. So all in all, unfortunately, I have to say to the authors of an otherwise excellent motion for a resolution that the Liberal Alliance cannot support it in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154321	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154323	Does the Liberal Alliance really want to abolish the current environmental zone?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154330-2	No, I really don't think so. After all, we must develop the regulatory mechanisms that we now have so that they make the most sense. I cannot say exactly what the history of this is, but there has probably been an opportunity for previous environmental ministers to perhaps the questioner himself included to update this legislation, which is indeed requested, also in the motion for a resolution. I do not know if it might have been done, but what I am thinking of here is, you might say, the other part of it. And where I come from in Jutland, you will at least feel as if a tiny bit molboyish, if I may say so, to replace the new vans and trucks, which are 2, 3, 4 maybe 5 years old, without having received a notice that is longer than what is described in the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154439	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154440	Now there is a great opportunity to put some extra technology into its van if it has a value that makes it worthwhile to preserve it. So there are plenty of opportunities to do this, including socio-economic ones. I understand that the rapporteur does not want to abolish the environmental zone, but says that we need to use the regulation that we have most appropriately. Isn't it very smart to update the environmental zone when you have one?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154504-2	So, just to the questioner's first part: extra technology also costs money, new technology also costs money, replacement costs of course more than installing a particulate filter, but it is, after all, a cost imposed on people who bought cars perhaps 2, 3, 4 years ago in the good faith that they did just the right thing, also environmentally. So I actually do not think so, you can say, is an answer to that, so you can mount a particulate filter. So, in relation to whether or not to update the environmental zone, I can say that if Mrs Ida Auken thought they should have been updated, then I am not sure I understand why Mrs Ida Auken did not do it herself when she was Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154550	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154552	Thank you. Now the minister said that the opposition was dormant. I think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is exuberant, at least when you listen to the content of the speech. I think the Minister said that he had a grain of gold at the end of his speech, which was about the fact that he wanted to make some of the calculations that we included. The Social Democrats have asked for it, and that is, of course, positive. But I also think that I sensed the speech of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur as such a lump of gold, and that is where I want to press to know if that is correct. So whether it is understood that we cannot vote in favour of this proposal, but that we are actually looking positively at entering into a process in which we can have a political debate on it here and possibly a political debate on the possibility of taking initiatives to update these environmental areas and to take a step further in respect of the costs involved. Did you get that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154644	That was actually quite right and, as I also heard the last of the Minister's gold grain, it was precisely that the Minister and the Department will now actually provide some of these updated figures. There are, of course, many people here who are also described in the motion for a resolution here, in relation to vans and trucks and buses. In the past, particulate filters have been cofinanced on buses in Copenhagen, etc., in larger cities and smaller cities. There are many cut surfaces here, and where can it be said that cost effectiveness is greatest? Where are the main socio-economic consequences? At any rate, I do not have an overview of this at this stage. Then there is another source, which I also mentioned earlier in relation to the wood-burning furnaces, where I have also asked the Minister internally in the past for an evaluation of the pool that has previously run in relation to the scrapping of wood-burning furnaces. Because I believe that there may also be something to collect there in terms of air pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154740	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154750	On the way to a fully implemented and nationwide road pricing system, we think in the alternative that it is a very good idea that we have the environmental zones that were introduced back in 2006. We think it is an important instrument, but we also find it strange that it was introduced as a static size at the time. That is why, of course, we are partners in this proposal, because we think it is natural that when one has such a system, it follows technological developments. For us, it's not the most important thing that we just get this norm on July 1, 2019. The important thing is that we get the whole system screwed up, so it automatically creates this continuous update. When new standards are introduced, urban businesses must know that they must then keep up with their vehicles, for example. Four years later, as in this proposal. That's why we're partners on this. We think that this is a very good proposal and we think that environmental areas are an important instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227154909	The resolution calls on the government to update the environmental zones and make them what we call clean air zones. At the same time, it is proposed that it should be possible for the municipal council of cities, for example. More than 25,000 inhabitants to introduce clean air zones. Workstations are involved and, above all, it is proposed that the enforcement of zones should be made more effective so as to ensure that old polluting vehicles and machines do not pulsate at children's height where they are not allowed to do so. A better air quality must be guaranteed in a banal manner where there are the most people. The environmental zones no longer do that. The existing environmental zones have not followed developments. A requirement was made for the Euro 3 standard in 2008 and for Euro 4 from 1 July 2010, corresponding to four years of phasing-in from the standard applied to new vehicles. However, a similar automatic system was not introduced for future Euronorms. Euro 5 became mandatory when sold in 2010, but has never become a requirement in the environmental zones. And Euro 6 was introduced by new sales in 2014, but has also not been introduced as a requirement in the environmental zones. The need for European and international solutions to air pollution and the fact that others are polluting more than we are is, in my view, not an argument for not wanting to improve conditions for the health of the Danes. With this proposal, there will be an improvement in air quality following the phasing-in of Eurostandards. Health must, for me, be above other considerations, and the proposal that has been put on the table is not, in fact, a very radical proposal, of course, it is a radical proposal in that way, but not a very dramatic proposal. However, I have also listened to the debate and heard that there is, after all, recognition that air pollution is a problem that needs to be addressed. One can then consider how patient one is in relation to the need for something to happen. But in any case, on behalf of the SF, I would like to say that we naturally support the proposal, as we are co-sponsors of it, and I would like to thank the Radicals for taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155140	Thank you to the rapporteur. We give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155148	First of all, I would like to thank you for a debate in which there is at least recognition of the problem, namely that we still do not have clean air in our cities and that too many people still get sick and die from the fact that the air is not clean enough in our cities. Air pollution is a difficult area, I admit, and sometimes it may seem quite obvious to do something. I myself have been very concerned about particulate filters on cars, but the environmental effect then appears, when you count on it, to be very, very small. And it's partly because a lot, when it comes to particles, comes from outside. When it comes to the second part, which also has major health effects, namely NO x 2 I think it is up to one third of the pollution that comes directly from road transport, and there we have an opportunity to do something about it. We also agree with the Radicals that we need to do this in a sensible way and that we need to have an overview of how much it costs. This is an area that I myself have been quite deep down in, and when we were looking at it, there were actually quite reasonable socio-economic figures to make these demands on the big heavy vehicles and on the heavier vans. That is why I also hope that if the Minister wants to make a fair update of the figures, we can have a basis for decision which will enable this to actually be done. We have seen in a letter from ITD, which is one of the major trade organisations for the transport sector, that you are not actually very opposed to this proposal, but you just want a little longer. If it's a matter of finding the right time, let's talk about it. Because it must be the case that when there is a new technology out there and if it can be put on relatively reasonable terms and if we know that it is the large vehicles, either buses or trucks, that can pass it on to customers with a few cents per annum. It is better that people pay it extra than that they have to pay with their health and their lives. That's why this discussion is really important. Why is air pollution a problem? It is because of the quality of life that people in our cities have. In fact, I hope that from here we can take political responsibility so that families with children can live in the cities and that they should not choose, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does, to say that if they had children, they will certainly not live in our capital. I think that was a very crazy statement, I have to say, because if you do not want to live in your own capital, then it is a pity for the truckers that we should make demands. That was the surprise of the day anyway. Then there's reasonableness in this as well. In Denmark we have a principle that states that the polluter pays. Right now it is not the polluter who pays, because here you can be allowed to pollute with your cars and vans, and then it is some others who pay. And they're the ones who live in the cities, they're the ones who bike, they're the ones who walk. This isn't just a problem in our capital, it is in many of our big cities, it is in our local communities, it is in the triangular area. It is very many places in our country that are health costs because the air is not clean. So there is also a reasonable perspective here, which is that we have a 'polluter pays' principle. As far as health costs are concerned, there are figures from Aarhus University, which I know the Minister has a very high degree of confidence in, and by means of them we know that in Copenhagen alone it is 550 premature deaths per year and other health problems, and that is 33,000 sick days per year due to respiratory diseases. And that amounts to a loss of up to 41⁄2 billion. kr. So there are some very big socio-economic gains by getting something done about this. I think we should know the figures, so I am really glad that it will come out of it today. With regard to tourism, I would say that we have a country that is known for having clean water, nature, green conversion, taking climate responsibility and bicycles, and we have a city where you can be in public at all. And, of course, it is a pity that one of the problems we still have and one of the places where we are still getting reprimands every now and then is in connection with the fact that we cannot get clean air. I think that what the Minister is doing internationally is very good, namely to continue the trail of Denmark taking the lead there. This is a very good initiative, but if there are also some opportunities to do something that makes sense in relation to the transport at home, the heavy transport, then we think we should do it. There is a third perspective, and that is the industry we have in Denmark. After all, we have a very strong business community on air-cleaning solutions. I mean, it's 48 billion. kr. you export for, and it has increased by 121⁄2%. in recent years, so it is really one of the green technologies we can export to the whole world, and there is having a Danish home market some kind of showcase. The previous government found a pool to put catalysts on the buses with Movia, and it is true that it cost somewhere between DKK 100,000 and DKK 125,000. to put them on, but on the other hand they also have a good health effect, so it was socio-economically sensible, and the company that created it has now got a showcase that allows them to start exporting to, among others. England and Asia and other places that now actually have major problems. The minister also has a clean air vision, so let us take the final steps in getting a Danish home market where we show the rest of the world that we can get this done. I think it is common sense in relation to the environmental zone that the time, when you can see the figures, that in around 2018 the environmental zones will contribute virtually nothing more, so at least have arrived. I would also like to say to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that this was one of the things I would have very much liked to have achieved in my ministerial period, that is to say to have this update done, and I can promise you that it was on the table from start to finish, but it seems to be taking a long time to complete these calculations to make this decision. So now 41⁄2 years have passed, so we could not get those calculations forward as soon as possible. That's why I think it's good to land this with a report where we might agree to get these figures out so that we can all agree that this is an area that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155757	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155801	Thank you. Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech and also for the recognition of some of the remarks I made myself when I was on the platform. It's just this new technology thing that I got a little over. Because I do not believe that there is such a law of nature that, just because there is new technology, there must be political intervention to force people either to install particulate filters, buy new cars or whatever new technology is in place. I do not know whether Mrs Ida Auken can agree with me that there is in fact no natural law which prescribes it. Now Mrs Ida Auken just mentioned it herself, so although I do not really like it so much about who did what when and why, and the political discussions that can come out of it, I would like to know whether Mrs Ida Auken might not be able to put a little more words on why it was actually that she, as a minister, did not have enough time to update the legislation, so that this automatic technology thing that I am standing here calling a law of nature was not introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155904	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155905	No, there is no natural law on this in connection with using new technology, but there is common sense in it, as when something makes socio-economic sense very well. When it is something that benefits public health; when it is something that benefits tourism; when it benefits the Danish business community and where the bill is paid by all of us as customers, I actually think it is very common sense to go out and make those demands. One of the reasons why we didn't make it in my time was that I was too ambitious. Well, I would also like to have all the passenger cars with me, and there I had to have a long fight before I could get into my little head, that putting a particle filter on a passenger car didn't give any effect out in the real world. And there it is just sometimes that, as a politician, you have an idea that if someone who pollutes puts on a filter, it will help. That was one of the problems, i.e. that I was too ambitious, and that is why it took too long to get down to what makes real sense and which is what we have put into the proposal today, namely heavy transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155958	Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227155959	Thank you. That's very nice. That kind of confirms me in a theory I have developed here recently that when a politician talks about something being ambitious, it usually means that it is unrealistic. But it's true that now, hopefully, we'll have these numbers soon. And what I hear Mrs Ida Auken say is that there is also a reverse of the coin. So that there are also other bills that have to be paid, that there is an industry that has to pay to have these particle filters installed on their wagons, and that it is not necessarily the case that it makes sense socio-economically. Can't Mrs Ida Auken confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160046	It is true that there are always some who have to pay the bill at the other end. Right now it is the citizens who pay with their health. I think it is common sense to make these demands on heavy vehicles when we know that there is really good socio-economic sense in doing so. And when it's not a single citizen who gets a claim of 20,000, 30,000 or 40,000 kr, but actually a total industry that can pass it on to the goods so that they become a little more expensive, then I think it's common sense to make these demands. If the minister can come forward relatively quickly with these numbers and we can agree on a time frame I could also understand on ITD that their biggest problem was really the tempo then we would like to add 1-2 years, if that's what divides us. In other words, it should not be what makes it so overambitious to use the rapporteur's words. Let us achieve this in a sensible way, and that is where I hope we can land it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160136	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160138	I couldn't help but stand up now when I got it stuck in my head. Well, I must not just say that I feel that when you live in Denmark and live in Denmark, you also have a responsibility to decide for yourself where you and your children should live. Personally, as I said from the platform, I did not want to live in Copenhagen. It's not just air pollution, I just want to say. I just didn't want to live here. That's what it is. In fact, I was a little surprised, because did I hear correctly when I heard Mrs Ida Auken say that particulate filters on passenger cars have no effect? I am actually shocked, if that is true, because I believe I can remember that all diesel cars have been ordered to have particulate filters applied. If you didn't do it, you got an extra bill on the environmental tax of DKK 1,000. a year. I remember because I was the owner of a small diesel car called Lupo 3L, which used 3 litres of diesel at 100 km. But there was no particulate filter, so that option was simply not available. That's one thing. The second question I would like to ask is: when we talk about pollution in these environmental zones, is it possible that at some point there will be a proposal from the Radical Left that we should ban wood stoves in Copenhagen? Or isn't it something we're gonna have to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160305	In relation to the particulate filters, the answer is no. I am quite convinced that the demand that was made to punish those who did not put it on has not had a huge environmental impact. Actually, I don't think so. I think it might also be possible to take this into account in these calculations, because if it is a requirement, one might consider whether it should be removed if it is just something that gives money in the treasury. In other words, I am not very enthusiastic about using the environment as a pretext for doing something if it does not actually have a real environmental effect. In relation to wood stoves, I would say that this is one of the places where we know that it really plays a role, how people behave. In fact, on the part of the Radical Left, we would like to go further and let, for example, let. chimney sweepers go in and look at how people fire at home in their wood stove, and consider whether we should have a rule about three strikes and you are out, so you can't have a wood stove if you can't find out not to poison your neighbors, rather than go all the way and say that now we must ban wood stove.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160400	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160402	This is a little interesting, because we have also heard from the wise men that wood stoves are almost the biggest sinner in relation to particle emissions in the cities. That's what we heard. Then it is just a little strange that people are now going after diesel cars, which certainly also pollute, but we are not producing them after all. It is not going to go so far as to say that then we will also ban wood stoves in Copenhagen. I am just surprised when you keep making the argument that citizens pay with their health, and that is why we have to do something in here. But you are not willing to go in and say: we are now banning wood stoves in the environmental zone of Copenhagen. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160453	So it is traffic that we are discussing today. Of course, we can also discuss the other problems of shipping and power stations, if that is what the questioner wants. But I think that the Danish People's Party should come up with a proposal to ban wood stoves. Then we can take the discussion there and see how it ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160514	Then we thank Mrs Ida Auken. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. No one objects. Then it's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160540	The debate is open. We start with Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160550	Thank you. The aim of the proposal here is to tighten up the penalties for serious violence. Specifically, it is a matter of violations of Articles 245a and 246 of the Penal Code. Rugged violence must have a hard consequence. It is simply not fair to expose other people to such violent abuse. It is not when people are subjected to any abuse, but I think we can all agree here that gross violence is in a class alone. The cases we know from the media: A young boyfriend and girlfriend were attacked and beaten with chains when they were on their way home on Christmas Eve; there were kicks and punches against a dog walker who was disabled forever, and most recently we saw an attack with an axe, also on an innocent boyfriend and girlfriend. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is right that such crimes should be severely sanctioned and, unfortunately, we have seen a series of cases in which the level of punishment is too much, very serious, violent crimes and where a sense of justice is left which has not been satisfied by the sanctions that have been imposed. As we in the Social Democratic Party have said many times in this case, and as I have said many times, we do not believe that punishment has the great effect on crime and on avoiding crime. But when we have chosen to be a community of law, there must be a sense of justice associated with the judgments. Otherwise, we risk losing our support for the rule of law. And that is the reason why we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal that we are discussing here today. Having said that, however, we think it would be interesting in committee to have an overview of what is generally given by penalties, because there is no doubt that the penalties for these sentences we have seen, which have been in the media spotlight, seem very low. But it might be interesting to get a statement from the Minister for Justice on the general level of punishment for these paragraphs for which we are tightening the penalties for today. But the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160828	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227160836	Thank you very much. If you follow the media scenery, you cannot avoid coming across cases of serious violence from time to time, and you have to wonder twice. At first one wonders how cruelly some people are able to treat others, but subsequently about how relatively easy some of the people who commit some of the most violent crimes escape when they are subsequently punished. Considering how big but the victims get after some of the all-round violence in and with them very likely going to live the rest of their lives with either great psychological or physical genes, it makes really, really good sense that we look at the punishment. That is why the proposal we are discussing here is a very good proposal. As a result of the 2018 Finance Act, we are now dealing with it In the Danish People's Party, we are very much in favour of the hardest crime being punished much harder. We are also happy to go further than the government's proposal here, but it is, after all, a step in the right direction, which is why we naturally support it. In recent months, a debate has been held on precisely the penalties for the worst crimes of violence, or rather on whether the courts have used the tools they have adequately. These are, of course, also issues that I would like to stress on the subject, because we also need to bear in mind that when it comes to the most serious crime, there are already some very good opportunities in the existing criminal code. In fact, we have provided the courts with a very broad framework in order to be able to punish the hardest crime. But, of course, we will follow very closely how these punishments are going to get through in the courts. I also expect that the Minister for Justice will inform Parliament of how this has happened when the rules have been given the opportunity to work for some time. But the Danish People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227161042	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227161054	Thank you. After all, the text of the bill does not contain the essentials. You change the word like that. I don't think that's gonna cause much trouble. These are the comments on which we must focus; that is where the changes are taking place. Because, following the observations made in the proposal, the normal penalty for serious violence increases by one third. In addition, the penalty for excessive violence increases to some level that I cannot immediately find. The comments to Section 1 of the bill state: "In addition to the one-third increase, the bill provides for a further increase in the penalties for the most common violations of Article 245 of the criminal code, in particular where injured persons have been subjected to very extensive violence, possibly committed by several perpetrators, and have suffered considerable damage. It is therefore proposed that in the most serious cases, which are currently settled by penalties at the level of about 1 year and 9 months in prison, a penalty be measured which is more consistent with the level of punishment for violence covered by Article 246 of the Penal Code. Since the cases are very different, it is not possible to indicate a general level of punishment. That is to say, there is no doubt that the punishment for the milder form of serious violence - if you can grade it in this way - increases by one third, but there is not really an exact indication of what the penalty for the harsher form of gross violence is increasing. It's also difficult, of course, because it's hard to grade this. However, I can only say from the Left that we have a clear idea that there is a significant increase in the penalty for grosser violence. A small step in the right direction is what we can describe the proposal as a good small step in the right direction. But there remains a more general question, which I hope we will be able to raise another day, namely the use of penalties by the courts, because this is where the chain goes off for most Danes and, at least, for the Left. The problem is that it is evidently difficult to define what you understand by normality. Where's the normal level? Where is the normal punishment? For most crimes of serious violence, the penalty is six years in prison, and since in the vast majority of cases it is revenants, yes, you put 50 per cent. in accordance with section 247, and then the penalty is 9 years in prison. However, if you go in and look at the judgments that are handed down, you can see that it is milieu-wide from a 9-year prison sentence. I have previously explained a judgment of the Odense Court. I did so in the daily press on 11 November 2013 and it was about a case where four people catch a fifth and cut off part of his ear; he's tied up, you try to scrub out his eye, you add him 29 serious injuries, including hobby knife, and beat him with hammer etc. You think he's dead when you finally urinate on him. It brings a sentence of 21⁄2 years in prison with a penalty of 9 years. So we have to look at that on another occasion. I could add several other judgments that I was about to say are even worse if one can imagine it. There is a judgment from the Court of First Instance in Sønderborg, but it is under appeal, as far as I am aware, so I will not comment on it at the moment until the appeal is closed. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this is not something that I am just making up up here. Legal literature also refers to the levels of penalties. Professor Knud Waaben wrote this a few years ago: For many crimes there are rarely punishments that are above the lower third or quarter of the framework for sentences of liberty. On the other hand, the practice of deliberate killing and drug crimes shows a relatively wide use of the penal framework. Crime statistics provide information on the length of sentences for various crimes. The application of penalty rates can be seen to fall sharply when crossing borders at 1, 2 and 3 years. A number of crimes with a maximum sentence of 6-10 years or more show few convictions that exceed 3 years. So we're about 30 per cent. of the penal framework being exploited. We in the Left are looking forward to further clarification here in the Danish Parliament. That is why I can lively support Mrs Trine Bramsen's request to the Minister for Justice to clarify the relationship between the penal framework and the factual penalties granted. The proposal that is on the table supports, of course, one hundred per cent. It is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227161604	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then we move on to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227161617	Thank you. This is how it is and it is agreed by all parties of the Danish Parliament that gross assault, gross violence, can leave victims with marked both physical and psychological but. And it is also important, therefore, that we adopt legislation on the part of the Folketing, which means that the penalties that are being measured are both in line with the sense of justice that exists in society, but that, from the point of view of Enhedslisten, they are, of course, also made on the grounds that they must be able to prevent new crime. The penalty that lies in the draft law is then a punishment that has been agreed in the context of the financial law negotiations on the financial law for 2018. In relation to the justification for these penalties, it must be noted, as a few other rapporteurs have also mentioned, that this is not because so much facts or any further reasons are presented for us to adopt it here, in addition to an argument about the sense of justice which the government believes lies behind the justification for the lifting of penalties. The comments state: "It is proposed that Articles 245, 245a and 246 of the Penal Code should be amended and it is assumed that the penalty under the provisions will be increased by about one third over the penalty that would be imposed today by the courts. And then, because of the diversity of cases of serious violence, it is not possible to specify a certain level of penalties for the offences, but the bill provides, for example, that a case of violence under Article 245 of the Criminal Code, which is currently decided by the courts by 9 months in prison after the amendment of the law, is to be settled by 1 year in prison. This means that we are here today to take a position on the tightening up of the criminal code, and we do not get any proof of what the level of punishment is today, because it is apparently not possible, but we get a calculation that says that if you add one third to nine months, you get one year. Well, it's not very hard to figure out that I think even my own son, who is in second grade, can very quickly figure out. So the reason is a calculation and an argument that the sense of justice requires it here. The Crime Prevention Council states in their hearing that there is a lack of evidence that the current level of punishment is contrary to the people's sense of justice, and the arguments put forward by the government are not supported by the facts either. In general, there are no facts here. I think that the hearing answer given by the Association for Legal Affairs in particular is very interesting here. They write: "This bill adds itself to the series of recurring sharpenings of the penalty for gross violence. The bill does not bother to argue, for example. with any increase in serious violent crime or parts thereof. Then the Legal Affairs Association has been so kind in their hearing response to write some figures from Danmarks Statistik that show how it looks with convictions for violence, and they have developed very well, one has to say: In 2011 there were 7.649; in 2012 the figure falls to 7.381; in 2013 it is 6.442; in 2014 it is 5.750; in 2015 it is 5.949; and in 2016 it ends at 5.929. In general, this is a fall in violent crime. Then the Legal Policy Association goes on to write: "It should be stated whether there is an increase behind these figures in the number of convictions under Article 245-245 (a) of the Criminal Code, and a closer analysis of the relationship between notifications, charges and convictions should have been made. So it's very little facts that underlie this bill. This is the reason why you want to do it here and have agreed it but, as the Court of Justice Association also writes: "Whether a victim or the sense of justice of the people will be better served by a perpetrator being sentenced to, for example, one year and nine months in prison. Two years and six months in prison, as proposed by the bill, a second calculation can of course not be said to be credible. Therefore, the government must confine itself to having a perception that it can then spread across the population, which then obviously has to understand it as an expression of power of action or security of justice policy. And it is, even though we know that this kind of punishment does not lead to less crime... there is no evidence that it will do so. So it is yet another punishment, once again a symbolism policy which will not lead to less crime and which has been presented with very little evidence of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162135	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162143	Thank you for the floor. Bill No. L 142, which we are now discussing, aims to ensure better fairness in the penalties for serious violent attacks, where the proposal is that penalties should be tightened by one third in relation to the current level of penalties. In general, it is important for both me and my party that the seriousness of crimes is reflected in the perpetrator's punishment. But on the basis of Mr. Rune Lund's rapporteur's speech also seems to me that it is perhaps a good idea to dwell on this in general terms as to how and why we are spelling. Historically, they have punished for violence and killing to prevent vendetta. The Danish society was, in fact, a vendetta community, just like what can be read about in the Icelandic sagas, until the royal power became so strong in the Middle Ages that it began to put an end to these vendettas. And even though much has changed in the meantime, punishment is still something that the state takes over from civil society and from the victim. That means that you also have to be careful when you rush out so that punishment doesn't work. I am one of those who believe that staph works very much because we do not have a vigilante society, and the fact that we do not have a vigilante society is, in fact, proof that the regime by which the vigilante is abolished and the cold state is in charge of punishment instead of the hot vendetta works very, very well. That is why penalties are something that must reflect some sort of balance view. This is not something to be scientifically considered. This is a balance that civil society must recognise and in which, as politicians, we must try to listen to civil society. There is a wrong that needs to be balanced with right. It seems to us that this is a very sensible legislative proposal which strikes this balance, and that is why we think it is very meaningful to tighten up the penalties for these serious crimes. As I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162406	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162415	Thank you. After all, I believe that everyone fully agrees that gross violence must be done all we can to combat it. The question then is how we fight it and what works. With this bill, the government wants to increase the penalty for serious violence by one third compared with the penalty currently imposed by the courts. And in addition to the general punishment, the bill provides for a further tightening of the penalty for the most common cases of serious violence under Article 245 of the Penal Code. This is true, for example. in cases where the victim has been subjected to extensive violence, possibly by several perpetrators, and has suffered considerable damage, and these are serious cases. The reason for the bill is that, according to the Government, the current level of punishment does not reflect the violation of the victim that is taking place. The government claims that the punishment is not in line with the people's sense of justice. And it is absolutely true that it is very important to look at the people's sense of justice, but I do not have any proof of that claim in the draft law. Therefore, allow me to highlight some of the consultation answers that have been to this bill. Because I am fully in line with the criticisms made in the hearings. For example: says the Crime Prevention Council in their hearing response that they lack evidence that the current level of punishment should not be in line with the public's sense of justice, as the government writes in the bill, and that the government does not make this claim probable. There are no statistics or the like which show that there has been a shift in serious violent crime, and this is also pointed out by the Legal Policy Association in their highly critical consultation response. And it is remarkable, I think, that the government is actually using an argument about the sense of justice and opinion of the people to legitimise a punishment, without considering whether there is a real need. I am not arguing that we should not sanction gross violence, but our legal policy must be based on fundamental considerations: the restoration of the victim, the consideration of society's general sense of justice and, above all, the re-socialisation of the perpetrator. These are three very important considerations which must be weighed against each other. And this bill, as I read it, does not take into account any of the considerations mentioned. If we start with regard to the restoration of the victim, the Association Help Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims write in their hearing that it is their experience that victims of crimes are more keen on the consequence of an attack against them and that it is done quickly than a severe punishment is measured. In other words, the bill, which according to the government seeks to tighten up the penalties for serious violence for the victim, does not, according to the association for victims of violence, meet the same concerns; therefore, there is no restoration of the victim. From our perspective, it is quite clear that there must be a much greater focus on the legal position of wrongdoers than we actually see today. We believe that it is essential to stress that far more account is taken of the wrongdoers when dealing with criminal proceedings. Any wrongdoers must be taken seriously, even when they approach the police. They must feel heard, and they must be met by an aid that is in line with the violation suffered by the person concerned. With regard to the second aspect, namely the general sense of justice, the government itself does not present statistics supporting the argument that the public's sense of justice should have been violated. The government cannot indicate whether there has been a sharp increase in cases of serious violence, but we know one thing, and that is that crime across the board is declining. Studies show that the interview directly wants the Danes to be punished more severely. That's right. But it also turns out, when you then go a little deeper, that the population knows very little about the level of punishment in Denmark. They significantly underestimate the rigour of the courts, and in specific cases they judge themselves milder than the courts actually do. Finally, concern for the rehabilitation of the perpetrator is not part of the purpose of the bill. Here I have to refer to the hearing of the Crime Prevention Council, which notes that punishment does not in itself have a crime prevention effect. In short, this means that we do not necessarily prevent new victims of serious violence by raising the level of punishment. On the other hand, we will do so if we regulate prevention and rehabilitation. And, as I said, this does not mean that we should be soft on the perpetrators, but we want to avoid relapses into crime, which, of course, is causing more victims. So what I can deduce from my speech here is that the alternative cannot back the bill. However, I would like to support the comments that came from both the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten, I think that it would be a very good idea to have some evidence of the criminal framework and the factual level of punishment. No, I think it was the rapporteur for the Left himself, Preben Bang Henriksen, who said that. Then I would just like to make a brief comment on the previous rapporteur, as regards the fact that the Ministry of Justice itself has carried out a study on whether punishment works from the Ministry of Justice in 2015 and I think that one could also look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162945	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227162958	Thank you. We certainly do not object to discussing the levels of punishment and also any punishments, but we believe that there is a tendency for us to have some relatively unqualified discussions on the subject in the Folketing in these years. This is not the first time that a proposal has been presented to us, which is full of calculations, but where we do not see any concrete examples of cases where a different level has been sought. That's why I'd like to sign for mr. Preben Bang Henriksen's rapporteur's speech, in which he mentions some specific examples which I also think help to point out that there is a need for this discussion. That is why we welcome it. However, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned and back to the discussion about why we are punishing the European Parliament at all, there are more considerations. And when it is not the People's Court that puts the specific level of punishment in the individual cases, it is because a case is usually more than what you can read in the Extrabladet. There is also the second perspective, that is, how to prevent the person from falling back, committing new violence, creating new victims; how to find a punishment that is in fact most remedial to the victim. That is why, as a rule, a matter is much more nuanced than what we read in the newspapers. Not that it is insignificant, nor, of course, that we have a legal situation where there is a general outrage in the population above the levels of penalties. However, we do have a system which recognises that there are nuances and that it is precisely not the People's Court that can give judgment and determine the level of punishment. However, in order to ensure that there is popular support, we also have a system of judges and boards, and I sometimes wonder, in the discussion about the imbalance between the actual penalties and the folk court, that nobody ever mentions that there are quite ordinary people who sit around the sentence. It just shows that if you read about a case in the Ekstrabladet, it may be that you want to give 10 years, but if the very same person sits as a juror or judge, it may be that it looks a little different because there are the other perspectives. We just have to remind each other of that difference, and that is why we will probably never reach a level or reach a state where there is always a 1:1 relationship between the level of punishment and the public opinion on the basis of the press coverage. I do not think we should go there either, because then I do not think we will get the many nuances that we recognise there and which are why we do not just have the same penalties for one's types of crime, but that there is in fact a broad framework for judges and judges and jury to measure the sentences or penalties in. In those words, however, I would like to welcome the debate. We also want an overview of penalties and penalties, and we would also like to do so, even if we do not have to base ourselves on individual cases, so perhaps we also want to discuss it in relation to individual cases and then make sure not only to see the case as it was described in the Ekstrabladet, but also to deal with the matter as it was presented in court. This is a discussion which we welcome and which we will take constructively into account. But I'm a little worried about the way we do it here in the Folketing, i.e. with these calculations, also because it's getting a little hard to keep track of. I certainly do not believe that the criminals, or the person who may be committing a violent assault, have a complete overview of what the penalty for that type of attack is, or also what it means if he commits it in a particular area, and that is double up-punishment, or what if he is actually related to a gang, and that is plus 50%. So, what kind of system are we also building, where you actually have very wide penalties? It may be very good, in fact, that there is a good opportunity to bring in the nuances and a great freedom for the judges, our jury and judges, but that makes it a very opaque system when we have such a wide framework. And then we have on top of that system of additional penalties where you can actually get more additional penalties on top of that. In other words, like a violent attack by someone who has gang relations, committed in an area that is in a penal zone. So where do we end up? Well, I'm having a hard time figuring that out. I don't think the people who might be moving into some of these things can figure it out either. I do not think it necessarily affects them very much either. But it also underlines the need to have a proper, objective and thorough debate on this, and that is also why we really think that this type of debate is a little better suited to the Criminal Law Council, to which we otherwise have the habit of sending this type of question, because there are so many considerations, and this is a complex area. But we will enter the debate constructively and, of course, seek as much knowledge as possible so that we can have the qualified debate that we sometimes think we have lacked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163542	Thank you. It gave rise to a single remark from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163546	It's just a positive receipt for Mrs. Zenia Stampe. It is quite true that we need such an overview, but, as has also been said from the platform, it is not an easy and simple overview to draw up. I also understand that if the Ministry of Justice is to spend time on it, because, as we are told, there may be additional penalties for gang-related activities, additional penalties up to 50%. for crimes committed in the past, etc. And finally, and that's probably one of the things that makes it very difficult... there aren't two crimes that are the same. It's not like a bank robbery. After all, there's an idea of what it is. A lot of things can happen here. However, it is also unfortunately the case that those who are convicted have not just been convicted under section 245. Unfortunately, in the same sentence there are often several crimes about a certain penalty, so it is quite an artwork for the officials of the Ministry of Justice to draw up that chart. But where there's a will, there's a way, so I'm happy to entrust them with the job. That was more of a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163653	Well, thank you. I hope and look forward to continuing the debate in this good, constructive spirit. I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163701	Thus we move on to the next speaker, Mr. Karsten Hønge, and it's SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163710	There is good reason to discuss the relationship between the penalties and the sentences actually handed down by the courts. This can often provoke the general view of the law, because many people do not understand why the penalties are not being used. The proposal to tighten up the penalties for serious violence may have an impact on crime, but I think there is a lack of solid facts and evidence. The Association for Legal Affairs puts the finger on this very sore point from the explanatory statement of the draft law, and we should establish a stronger, serious, factual basis when we want to punish. On the other hand, the draft law is recommended by among others. Danish Women's Society. And I think that attitude reflects to a certain extent the lack of popular understanding of the now many examples of quite mild punishments for gross violence. SF tends to support the bill, but will ask questions during committee proceedings that can help create a real factual basis for tightening the penalties for serious violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163832	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163847	In the Conservative People's Party, we do not like violence, and we particularly do not like gross violence. We think it should be severely punished. We believe that punishment works. We think that punishment is fair and we believe that it has a good effect on the sense of justice and the level of violence in society. That is why we support the proposal here. We generally believe that the penalties for violence in Denmark are too low. Several rapporteurs have pointed out that we lack an overall overview. But as Mr. Henrik Dahl also pointed out that it is not something we can put on formula, that is, how the penalty level should be. It is a question of a sense of justice, and it is therefore up to us here in the Folketing to decide whether the level of penalties in Denmark is at the right level. We think it is too low and we very much welcome the fact that we are now raising the penalties for gross violence by about a third.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227163951	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. And we've actually reached the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164003	Thank you. Thank you for the speeches we have heard here today. Grove violent assaults often leave the victim with significant physical and psychological but, and the current level of punishment in cases of gross violence reflects the government's view, for this is politics that is not sufficiently the violation of the victim that is taking place. It is important that the seriousness of the crime is reflected in the punishment given to the perpetrator and that the level of punishment is consistent with the sense of justice of the people. This is not the case today, in the view of the government, and there is therefore a need to tighten up the penalties for serious violence. The purpose of the bill is to tighten the penalty for violation of Article 245 of the Criminal Code on serious violence, Section 245a on female circumcision and Section 246 on particularly serious violence. It is proposed that the level of penalties should generally be increased by one third compared with the current level. Then the bill also contains a further tightening of the penalty for the all-round cases of violence under section 245 and in all cases under section 245 of the Penal Code, where the knife has been used. With these brief comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and say that I look forward to the debate and, of course, I am available for questions which may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164121	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164148	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 1 March 2018. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the authors of the explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164207	Thank you. After all, we have called this question to discuss the level of penalties, but also to discuss community service, because we really think it is very important that the Danish Parliament should keep up with the balance of this issue. On the one hand, we have regard for the victims, those who are left behind and who have been subjected to a crime, and on the other hand, the question of how hard society must then punish so that individuals, those who may have committed this crime, can return to a life free from crime. The Folketing last changed these rules in the previous parliamentary term, back in 2015, and we are starting to see some effects of that now. We think it is appropriate that we debate them, of course. We ourselves in the Danish People's Party think that there has been a dull trend, but that is one of the things we hope to discuss during the question debate. I shall look forward to the Minister's reply and, of course, to the proposals and ideas of the rapporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164310	Thank you. That was then the reason for the question, which we must then have answered by the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164316	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this question. I am very pleased that we have the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to discuss and discuss the use of community services in cases of personal crime. This is an issue of great concern to me and to the government, and it is my clear conviction that the sense of justice and justice are closely linked to punishment. Punishment must be seen as punishment and punishment must reflect the crime committed. Crimes come in many variants and not all crimes are so serious that unconditional imprisonment is necessary. Sometimes conditional convictions with terms of community service may be the most appropriate punishment. Studies show that the risk of falling back to new crime is significantly lower among those receiving community service, and the risk remains lower several years after the punishment has passed. That is why the government also supports the use of community service, but community service must be used in the right contexts where consideration of the victim and the sense of justice do not speak against. It is precisely for this reason that the current governing parties voted against the legislative amendment made by the SR government in 2015. The government parties were opposed because the amendment of the law suggested that community service should be used in more violent cases than in the case law before 2015. Precisely in relation to perilous crime, the government's position is that punishment should be seen as punishment and community service should therefore be used with caution. There were also parts of the amendment to the law that the governing parties supported, namely that, as a counterpart to the extension of the use of community services, more severe sanctions were imposed on those who commit new crimes during the probationary period. In order for punishment to be seen as punishment and to be in balance with the sense of justice of the people, the current government and the former Left Government have launched a series of initiatives aimed at tightening up the penalties in cases of personal crime. We have, back in 2016, sharpened the penalty for rape and sexual intercourse with a child under 15 years of age with continuous 1 year imprisonment compared to the previous level of punishment. We have, among other things, with the respect package. enhanced the penalties for acts committed against persons in public service or for duties of one third when the act is committed in the context of serious disturbance of order in public place. In 2017, we doubled the minimum penalty from 1 year to 2 years, and at the same time we increased the penalty by about a year in prison compared to previous practice for the illegal possession of firearms in particularly aggravating circumstances. As part of the fight against biker and gang crime, we have expanded the scope of the penal code in Section 81a of the Criminal Code and inserted Section 81b, after which the penalty may be increased by up to half if a criminal offence is committed in a public place using firearms, etc. At the same time, we tightened the penalties for systematic or organised blackmail. Very recently, Parliament adopted the Government's bill to tighten up the penalty for witness threats by one third and, finally, I have tabled the bill to tighten up the penalties for serious violence that we have just dealt with first. The bill tightens the penalty for serious violence by one third and further tightens the penalty in certain serious cases of serious violence. So, in conclusion, the government agrees that there is a need to look at the use of community services, and the government will continue to look critically at the use of community services with dangerous crime and to take the necessary initiatives on an ongoing basis. Once again, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting the issue on the agenda and looking forward to the debate and further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164707	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. One might then ask how often the Minister of Justice and Mr. Poulsen must be changed, but at least now it is the rapporteur of the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227164723	Thank you. Under the former government, the Thorning-Schmidt government, the possibility of using community service as punishment for criminal offences was extended. We then voted against the amendment when it was voted on in 2015, but some of those who benefited from what the Left carried out before the last elections were people who were convicted of simple violence, but unfortunately also people who were convicted of harsher violence. In some cases, they have had the opportunity to go to community service rather than to prison. In our view, a slippery path was set up, which meant that people who, before the end of the year, if they committed serious violence, could serve alone in prisons or receive harsher sanctions, suddenly had a new opportunity to escape prison and go directly into community service. And we regard that as a problem. When the left back in the previous parliamentary term adopted the proposal, the entire blue opposition then said no to that proposal, and now that the scoreboard in relation to the distribution of members of parliament has changed, we in the Danish People's Party think it is time for us to take this debate again. And we hope that things have changed in relation to this subject. In fact, we did it back in 2016, two years ago, and now we think it is time to do it again. When we had that debate in the Danish Parliament in 2016, and I dare say that it didn't change much, the then Minister for Justice said that the developments that had taken place in this area caused amazement, and that was something he wanted to look at more closely. It came in the wake of the Jyllands-Posten being able to show what development there had been since the rules were changed. Because it was the case that it was not just simple violence that was involved; more serious forms of crime had suddenly been covered. In the Danish People's Party, we are not against community service in general. There may be some perspectives in what we can easily take and look at. However, we are concerned that social services as a tool have been used properly and that the balance has been tipped in too lax a direction, and it is our impression that this has happened. After all, the country's current Minister of Justice is happy to mark himself in relation to the desire for stricter penalties, and I think that is a very good thing. And that is why, of course, we also hope that the Minister of Justice will take a firm stand, so that precisely in this area we will ensure that we tighten up. I can also see, when I look around the media, that it is also a wish of some of the other parties in the government. I stumbled upon a chronicle in Jyllands-Posten from September 2017, written by the Left Legal Rapporteur. And I just want to quote parts of that chronicle: "A prison sentence can thus be made conditional and should not be served • if the perpetrator is instead doing a certain number of hours of community service. It is an excellent arrangement which has meant that many criminals do not fall back into new crime, as a prison stay could have resulted. Although the system has been extended over the years, it has always been assumed that this form of punishment was reserved for less serious crimes, including simple violence under section 244 of the Penal Code, for example a slap in the face. Contrary to the legislator's intentions, community service has now slipped away and has become a viable penalty for many cases of serious violence under section 245 of the Criminal Code... How this development has taken place, one can only speculate, but it can certainly not be ruled out that the judges have allowed themselves to influence the former SR government's proposal for general extension of the regime... The fact is, at least, that the evolution of the number of sentences on serious violence, where the punishment can be served by community service, is markedly increasing and • curiously enough • with a violent crack upwards in 2015, when the SR government (against the votes of the Left) relaxed the system in general. The figures speak their clear language... Here we go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen saw with a list of it. And it's not really to be polemical that I'm reading this chronicle. For I am very much in agreement with what the Left Legal Rapporteur wrote back in 2017. And that is quite simply why I think it is crucial that we should now take action on it, when there is an opportunity for it and when there could be a majority in favour of it. For example: It should be quite obvious that the parliament has closed the opportunity that one has today, where one can use community service as punishment in cases of gross violence, and has placed the very clear limitation that this can of course only happen in individual cases where it is a matter of simple violence. So we're gonna have to shut down that cat door, like Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen was in the crown. If you commit serious violence, of course you should not be in community service, then you should go straight to prison. I look forward to having something done about the subject here during the parliamentary term. And then I shall finish by reading a proposal for adoption aloud on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the sense of justice and justice are closely linked to punishment and that it is essential that convicted sentences reflect the crimes committed. The Danish Parliament notes that the application of conditional judgments with terms on community service has increased since the amendment of the law in 2015. The Folketing states that it is necessary to ensure that persons are not sentenced to conditional sentences under conditions of community service for personal criminality which are disproportionate to the public's sense of justice. The Danish Parliament therefore notes that the government will look critically at the use of community service in violent cases, in particular cases of serious violence, and will continue to implement the necessary initiatives. The Folketing also states that a tough course must be taken against those who commit new crimes during the probationary period and thus show that they are unable to make use of the opportunity offered by a conditional judgment on the conditions of community service. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20180227165340	Thank you. The proposed proposal for adoption is then included in the negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227165352	When we punish in Denmark, it has two purposes: first and foremost to ensure that the criminal does not repeat his offence and, secondly, to ensure the sense of justice. In the social democracy we appreciate that we have different forms of service. We have open and closed prisons, we have pensions, we have ankle chains, we have community service and we have fine penalties. It is the judge who, on the basis of a concrete assessment of the sentenced person concerned and on the basis of the framework we set here in the Folketing, assesses how the penalty is to be served. In the case of an ankle bracelet or community service during the last part of a prison sentence, it is the Criminal Services who assess whether the sentenced person is fit to serve. Most people sentenced to community service have committed enrichment crimes. It's typical burglary, it's stealing, fraud and document forgery. Some of them have also violated traffic laws. Then there is a group that is serving the last time of an unconditional prison sentence, typically the last third of the sentence, by going out to perform community service instead of being paroled. It is important that there is confidence in community service as a form of service, and therefore it should not be the rule that people convicted of perilous crime can serve in community service. That is why we also think it appropriate to examine how often it actually happens that people convicted of perilous crime are serving in community service, including whether this is the primary punishment or whether it is the last third, because from our perspective there is a difference in that. It may make sense, in fact, to serve the last third of your sentence in community service instead of being paroled, because it has someone I do not know if you can call it an educational and resocializing effect, that you are associated with a place where you perform community service. For us, it is important to emphasise that community service is a good form of punishment. Therefore, under no circumstances will we abolish it. It was ourselves that expanded the use of community service simply because the effects have proved to be really, really good, just as we also expanded the use of ankle chains because the effects have proved to be really, really good, but it is for particular groups of criminals. That is why it is also important for community service to be used wisely. It is to be used where it is intended, and it was not intended for persons convicted of perilous crime at the time. That is why it is also our call to the Minister of Justice that it is being examined whether the rules in force are being observed at all, because it is of no use that we stand here in the Folketing and adopt one thing, and when it comes to practice, it is not being observed and the intentions we have had here in the Folketing are not being applied. However, we support the proposal for adoption which has previously been read out. It covers the concerns we have about the community service. We are therefore in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Peter Kofod Poulsen read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227165729	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. And then it's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227165736	Thank you. Since 1992 we have had Chapter 8 of the Criminal Code, that is to say provisions on community service. And we in the Left must say that we support community service where that form of punishment is reasonable, and it is in many places. It prevents a large number of convicted persons from a later relapse in crime, which would be at risk if they spent their time in prison. Social services, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, are used to deal with the kind of small-scale crime, such as drunk driving and theft, etc., which can replace up to one year's imprisonment, which will then be converted to working hours. Of course, in relation to the use of community service, there is a consideration to be given to the victim. It must therefore also have its limitations when community service is to be used, and it is also the subject of today's topic here in the Folketing. It is quite clear that, on the part of the Left, we do not want community service to be used as a form of punishment for gross violence. In an earlier proposal for adoption in the Folketing and in the amendment of the law, it had inter alia: the importance that more serious forms of violence could be included in community service, and what has also happened, as previous rapporteurs have said, is that sentences are sometimes sneaking in where serious violence is punished by community service. And all the more reason to keep an eye on the development of case law, just as we stated in the previous debate here in the Folketing that it was necessary to keep an eye on developments in the punishment of serious violence. We have seen examples where, once again, it is necessary to keep a close eye on the development of judicial practice in relation to the expulsion of criminals. And it has come as a sad shock to legal Denmark, including judges, the Court of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, etc. This applies, as I have said, to the expulsion of criminal foreigners, in relation to gross violence and therefore also to community service. That is why I can say that the Left, by its very nature, wholeheartedly supports the text which has been read in this Parliament and which, of course, means that the Ministry of Justice must keep an eye on developments here, so that at least gross violence becomes the absolute exception in those cases where it can be discussed at all. But the Left is so opposed to that being the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227170055	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227170105	I mean, community service is an alternative to prison. And it is a form of punishment that some get as part of a conditional sentence, while others perform community service as part of the terms of their parole. And community service means that the sentenced person must do a job for a public institution or institution with a non-profit purpose. The tasks must be something that would not otherwise be done, and the scope is at least 30 hours and a maximum of 300 hours of work to be carried out in the time of the convicted person's free time. And the convicted are always subject to the supervision of the Criminal Services during the period during which they are to perform community service. Community service is, of course, a punishment, but it is a punishment where you punish wisely, and that is why you should use community service as much as possible. For it has a number of beneficial effects compared to e.g. Putting people in jail. Community service simply benefits future victims and society. It is a punishment that causes less relapse, that is to say less relapse into crime and hence fewer future victims. It is a punishment where the convicted person avoids being affected by hardened criminals and where the convicted person can take care of a job or education and continue to care for children or family. It is a punishment that is cheaper for society, as it is expensive to put people in prison. And for the convicted, being part of a workplace and functioning among people can be a way to a life free from crime. The convicted one sees that there is another way of life, and the convicted one often takes it to heart. It may also happen that people will subsequently be employed in the place where they have been in community service. It is therefore also a form of punishment that prevents new crime, not least because you can continue to do your job and your education. One can maintain one's home, one can be at home with the family, and one avoids just the negative influence of a prison stay. About 4,400 Danes are sentenced to community service every year, and about half are convicted of criminal offences, while the other half are convicted of violations of traffic law. And for others, community service replaces the last part of an unconditional sentence of freedom. Before the case is brought to court or a decision on parole, the Department of Criminal Welfare shall examine the personal and social conditions of the person concerned and assess whether he or she is able to comply with the conditions of community service. And that happens, among other things. on the basis of an assessment of the suitability of the sentenced person for community service. But this is also done on the basis of a concrete assessment of the sense of justice of the people, or on the basis of an assessment of the extent to which the use of community service would be offensive to the victim. So, in each situation today, it is decided whether community service is the right tool to use. It should not be a secret that we on the part of Enhedslisten believe that further use of the forms of punishment that create less crime in the future and create fewer victims in the future are some forms of punishment that we should use more than today. We are therefore very pleased with the draft L 50, which was adopted 2015 and meant that the use of community service as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment was extended. We therefore do not think that the proposal for adoption which has been tabled here, even though it is quite meaningless far along the way, is particularly good. And this is mainly due to the wording that: "The Danish Parliament therefore notes that the government will look critically at the use of community service. We do not think that there is any reason to look critically at the use of community services. Surely it is only if you do not want there to be fewer victims in the future. There is a need to use more community service and use more ankle chains. There is a need to use more of the punishments that cause fewer relapses when you are done serving. But, of course, as today, it must be based on a concrete assessment of the individual defendant, the individual convicted, on the basis of the specific circumstances in force. And that is already happening today, and we must, of course, stick to the actual assessment. So we have to punish in a way that causes less crime, because it causes fewer future victims, and that is why we need more community service. We don't need less community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227170615	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227170623	Thank you. After all, the debate on the use of community services is something that often takes place in this Chamber, and it has done so since 1992, when community service was introduced as a penalty. It is clear that the forms of punishment available are not something to be frozen at a certain historic time. Many of the penalties that could be imposed under Danish law are, after all, draconian today, and therefore they have been abolished. Other forms of punishment have come to be mentioned in the home with electronic ankle bracelets, and one can mention community service. But what is crucial is that the use of community service is done in the right context and that it does not contradict the concern of the victim and the general sense of justice and justice in society. And that is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we voted against the SR government's legislative amendment in 2015, which set out to use community service as punishment in several violent cases. Because when it comes to dangerous personal crime, you are in some kind of border country where it is important to ensure that a punishment is actually experienced as a punishment. In various cases of gross violence, the Supreme Court has chosen to use community service as punishment instead of unconditional imprisonment, but at the same time it has been pointed out that it should be the exception to provide community service in cases of violence of a particularly dangerous nature. And almost as usual, you might say, the Supreme Court speaks here with the voice of reason. However, when the Danish People's Party has raised this debate, I think it is a good opportunity to address the more fundamental issues, as I also tried to do in my rapporteur's speech to L 142 just now. In my young days, when I studied sociology, I encountered a question that one of the founders of the profession, Émile Durkheim, asked many years ago, namely why there is any difference between criminal law and civil law: couldn't you just do it all with a larger or smaller compensation? Is it really necessary to have two independent systems? And that, among other things, he... When it comes to penalties for violence and killing, the state has taken over responsibility for punishment from the injured and the injured. Before Denmark really became a Christian country, violence and killing were not something that the authorities were bothered to punish; it was something where people themselves handled the paragraphs, as we can also read about it in the Icelandic sagas. Punishment is therefore something that the state has somehow taken over from the families to prevent vendetta, and that is why I see it at least as a matter of fact that there has always been a discussion about whether the Folketing should stand up as a representative of civil society and say what is reasonable or whether it should be a matter of scientific expertise. After all, it is an armstring that is constantly taking place: should the experts decide, or should we, who have a popular mandate, decide how to lift the responsibilities of civil society? There we have to find a level, I believe, which is in line with the penalties that the victims expect when that responsibility is delegated to the state. Against this background, the government has also launched a whole host of initiatives aimed at tightening up the penalties in cases of perilous crime. One of them has just been dealt with, namely Bill L 142, which, of course, calls for us, as Parliament, to take on board the responsibility that we have been given by civil society. So I can just re-submit LA's view that the crucial thing is that the punishment is equal to the crime that has been committed. This is important for reasons of justice and justice. That is why, of course, we support the statement that has already been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171049	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171102	Thank you. After all, this is an exciting debate which the Danish People's Party is launching in their question asking us to debate community service for personal crime, and there should be no doubt that as a starting point for the alternative, we think that community service is a really, really good thing. When you look at the social service and what it does, the Minister also mentioned that there is a lower rate of return, as it says, a lower rate of relapse of around 15, when a community service is imposed instead of an unconditional sentence of freedom. The risk of new crime, which leads to the punishment of freedom, is reduced by around 25%, i.e. a quarter, while the risk of committing new crime, which is so serious that it leads to a new prison sentence, is reduced by 30%. during the first year following the judgment and by 39%. during the period up to 3 years after the judgment. It is a report from the Ministry of Justice's Research Office from 2014, which I quote here. The question that the Danish People's Party is asking today is whether we should nevertheless use community services for personal crime, and it is clear that people's sense of justice must be weighed against the fact that they are not going to prison, but are being given community service, and that consideration of the victim must also be given a great deal. What I really want to bear in mind is that in the preparatory work for the legal amendment of 2015, it is precisely that serious violence under section 215 of the penal code is, as a starting point, punishable by unconditional imprisonment, and I think that is actually an excellent wording, because it does indeed allow us to look at the specific case. It is undoubtedly difficult for us here in the Chamber to take a position on the specific issues, and that is to say that the legal basis is that we do not provide community service when there is serious violence, personally dangerous crime, but I think it is very positive that the preparatory work for the law provides for the provision of community service if one can see in the specific case that it will have an effect, and I would very much like to preserve that. In fact, I also noted in the debate at the time, before the draft law was adopted by the previous government, that the Karsten Lauritzen of the Left, who was then the legal rapporteur, said that when one is up I am quoting in the very serious criminality of persons, there must be a very narrow framework, but there can actually be what I think is the way the law is screwed up today, that it does, and I think that we should be careful, as Parliament does, to go in and legislate on specific cases, because we do not know the specific cases, and that is why I think it is very good that we are putting up with the judges and the judges, and so on. in the specific case, it is a very good idea to do something about community service here. Because what I started with is that there is a lower rate of relapse, and it must of course also be important for us to ensure that the people who committed crime do not go out and make new crime, so that we see further victims, because what we want to fight against, and I assume that we all agree with that, is that victims appear at all. So these should be my comments on this question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171523	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then we reached Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left, who is fluxing on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171538	Thank you. We're also looking forward to getting the area figured out a tiny bit to figure out what's really up and down on this. When we relaxed the rules of community service, we wrote or it was Minister of Justice Mette Frederiksen that the extended use of community service, among other things. will include certain cases of simple violence. So that was the proposal of the then government, in which my own party was therefore also represented. It was an opening and when simple violence is explicitly mentioned, it must be because that was what was controversial. That is why I do not think it was intended that this increase in the possibility of using community services should be used for serious violence, because it would have been mentioned in the comments to the law instead of mere violence. So yes to an analysis of how this increased use of community service is actually being managed. And there is something which has also been mentioned up here and which I also just had the opportunity to turn down in the Chamber before. If one can see that community service is being used in cases of serious violence, is it because it is being used in the rest of the sentence; in other words, where one would actually have paroled, one chooses to parole on terms of community service? Because then it's a little bit different from saying that you just get community service for a conviction for gross violence. Then you have been sentenced to prison, but instead of being on parole, you are on parole with terms of community service, which in a way can be said to be a sharper one. That is why I think there is just a need to find out what is up and down on this and, in general, the distinction between simple violence and gross violence. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, who is to be congratulated on his birthday today, mentions personal crime, but it then covers simple violence and gross violence, and if I understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party correctly, he will not go as far as to say that all simple violence should not be able to provide community service either, as I understand it. I therefore think that there is some potential in just digging into these cases and finding out where it is that community service has been provided. Is this as an alternative to prison sentences in cases of serious violence, or is this the residual sentence in these cases? Or is it more in cases of simple violence etc. etc.? We look forward to a good and constructive debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171807	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. You can celebrate birthday anywhere. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227171817	Society must always be on the side of the victim, and we must always stand side by side with the witnesses who, by standing forward, often exceed personal boundaries. I just wish it were simple to fight crime, with penalties, with violence and other crime. It's like the right wing believes in this simple mechanics. But that is not the case in reality. SF supports harder sentences for hard crimes. We are quite unsentimental towards both violent criminals and economic backers of actions that affect both individuals and communities. We have to punish for the sense of justice to match the crime. However, it makes sense to use that kind of punishment, which can also counteract future crimes, and here community service can sometimes be the right answer. Today we have a nuanced toolbox with tools, from closed prisons to ankle chains. The point is, we have to punish in a smart way. Social service can be precisely the kind of punishment where we achieve several good effects at the same time; the convicted person experiences a consequence of his action; there are fewer convicted people returning to crime; the convicted person, despite punishment, can maintain contact with the work, family and leisure life that in any case awaits all sentenced persons after serving. SF leaves it safe for the courts to tailor the penalty to each individual in relation to the crime. SF believes it is good that the judges have a toolbox containing community service. But of course it is equally clear that it must be the exception and only in exceptional circumstances that community service can be used in cases of serious violence. Yes, in fact, we are surprised that community service is being used at all in these cases, unless there are some very special conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172053	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172101	I do not have much to add to what the Minister of Justice has already said. We are pleased that the government is open to look at this subject. We tend enough to be a little inclined to agree with the Danish People's Party that community service may be used a little too much. So we have to try to discuss whether it can be adjusted, and we will have a look at that. Then, of course, we support the adoption text which was read out by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172137	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172143	Thank you. I think there have been some clear statements today. There has been a clear indication that community service is good and makes sense, but there has been an equally clear indication that it has to be done in the right context. There is a debate and one can hear that, as could the debate before and the many other discussions we have on legislative proposals in this House in the area of legal policy, a very large majority in Parliament wishing to pursue a clear and consistent legal policy. I am really glad that the majority is so large. I am also convinced that it is entirely in line with the wishes of the people in this area. After all, the text refers to, and this is what I will take note of here in my collection, that it focuses on the fact that the government will look critically at the use of community services in violent cases, particularly cases of serious violence, and will continuously launch the necessary initiatives. I think that is a very good thing, and I am of course very much in agreement with that, and so we will have to discuss it in more detail. We must have drilled this out and looked at the extent to which things are being used. Should that mean that we should look at whether there is something that needs to be rolled back, it will be something that we will have to see if we can change a political agreement, and it will also be something that might have to be found funds for, possibly by means of a financial law. As I said in my introductory remarks, I am quite in agreement with and glad that the Danish People's Party has tabled this question, because I believe that this is something we must keep an eye on all the time. It is incredibly important for the people's sense of justice that there is a balance that shows when we use community service and when we do not. But I also agree that we should have it drilled more precisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172347	With that, we thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned, the vote on the proposal for adoption will take place on Thursday, 1 March 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172402	I think it would be helpful if the tax minister were here. I think I've seen the tax minister in this room. I don't know if he's been hiding, now that mr. Søren Søndergaard has appeared. Yeah, you never know. Oh, he's here. Welcome to the treasure minister, that was great. We're on B-4, sir. the tax minister, and the debate is open. In fact, I give the floor to the tax minister. I just need 30 seconds to get some papers). Okay, of course, it can come as no surprise to any ministry that the Folketing is working fast. Then we'll take it without papers). That's right, that's what a real tax minister does. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227172555	Thank you. First of all, I am sorry. I was of the opinion that there would be questions for the Minister of Justice in connection with the previous question. Then there wasn't, and that's why it's gone a little stronger. As such, I am not to be sorry, the Minister for Justice is probably happy about that, but it did so that I was a little surprised at the speed of the parliamentary procedure. Of course, I'll take that on my shoulders. The motion for a resolution we are dealing with today is B 4, a motion for a resolution on the abolition of the restriction on the deduction of travel expenses for performers. It is, of course, a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and, moreover, one of a series of four motions for resolutions on improving the tax conditions of performers in a number of areas. Specifically, the Enhedslisten in the motion for a resolution points to the abolition of the reduction of travel expenses for performers. It is the case that we have a very special set of rules for travel expenses, in which, historically, a special deduction can be made if you travel and have expenses as part of your work. There you can get the expenses covered by an accounting model, where you hand in supporting documents and then you can have your costs reimbursed. Or you can get a special deduction of a special amount, depending on how many days you travel in connection with your work. A few years ago, access to the travel allowance was limited to DKK 50,000. a year. Subsequently, it was further limited to 25,000 kroner. Why was the possibility of obtaining this special deduction for travel expenses limited? This was because we saw a number of migrant workers from Eastern European countries who received some very large deductions in connection with them, for example. was resident in Poland and then went to Denmark and worked. And besides the fact that they were, of course, taxable of what they served in Denmark, they were able to obtain a fairly large deduction. So it was because the deduction was used in an inappropriate way compared to what was originally intended. That is why it was reduced, initially to 50,000 kroner. and now down to 25,000 kroner. And as I recall, it was done with broad support in the Folketing. These are the general rules governing the deduction of travel expenses. Then, in the context of their motion for a resolution by Mr Enhedslisten, the Enhedslisten proposes: Søren Søndergaard and others, that there should be special rules for performers. And I would like to say on behalf of the government that we want good conditions for cultural life in Denmark, and that we also want good conditions for artists, but that we do not want to introduce special rules as the proposers of Enhedslisten, which provide special opportunities for deduction as an performer. If you had to go down the road to ensuring better conditions for people travelling as part of their work, then you would have to do so in general, and then you would run into the problem which was the reason for reducing the opportunity for everyone and not just for artists, namely that EU citizens also have access to this deduction. That is why it has been reduced. In the end, of course, it is a political decision whether you want to do what the Enhedslisten proposes in their motion for a resolution, and the government could, within the framework I have outlined, be positive in looking at whether you can improve the conditions for people travelling in their work, but we reject that and we also hope that a majority in the Danish Parliament will do so specifically for performers. We are also turning to the funding that Enhedslisten has of it here and, incidentally, of the subsequent • not here today, but the subsequent three resolutions, which are about improving the tax conditions for artists and, of course, among other things. It is about withdrawing a series of tax incentives that the government has implemented. Of course, we disagree with that. So, although we have sympathy for Enhedslisten's desire to ensure better conditions for performers and support performers fiscally, we do not think that this justifies granting special treatment to performers. It is already the case today that an performer, like anyone else who travels as part of their work, can choose an accounting model where one gets an advantage out of it. However, with regard to the special deduction granted to people travelling in connection with their work, the same must apply to a fitter as to an performer. That is the view of the government, which is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173105	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173111	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. I am a little curious as to whether there are any special circumstances that apply to particular professional groups, because there may well be. I would really like to hear the Minister because I do not think it was quite clear whether you think that there are special conditions for performers who make us have to look at how we make rules for those who, in other words, have very special conditions in their profession, which make them have to move a lot in order to be able to have their profession running. So is there recognition by the government of the special conditions that apply to performers, or does it not seem necessary to look at the particular circumstances?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173151	The government wants to support a rich cultural life, and performers in particular it is artists who travel as part of their artistic work, their work travels around the country and helps ensure that culture is not only in the capital or in the larger cities where there may be theatres and a strong artistic environment, but also comes out into the country. So we would like to support this, and the Minister for Culture also does so by supporting their work with direct grants, either to some of the institutions for which performers work, or in the form of local cultural pools and other. And that support is justified given to the performers. However, the government is not of the opinion that performers have such a special position in our society that we have to make very special tax rules for them. There are already some very special rules for a number of artists who are on the Finance Act and other things, and that is already very controversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173252	But does the Minister see an idea in that, instead of we only support directly through pools, it creates proper conditions for you to be able to pursue your profession under the special conditions which apply and which are, after all, different from profession to profession? So here we are dealing with a group which, so far in order to be able to practise its profession, in order to create art as performing artists throughout the country, that is to say, to be around, perform, etc., they have special conditions here. Well, that's another way that instead of just a pool support, we say that we actually support the profession to grow in itself through this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173328	Well, we would like to see more performers coming and that there are good conditions for them, but we have to put the desire for a single tax system on that. I would like to see fewer deductions instead of more, and I believe that the most appropriate way to support performers is not to make tax special rules for them. This applies not only to this motion for a resolution, but also to the other three tabled by the Enhedslisten. We do not disagree with the desire to create good conditions for cultural life, but we disagree with the fact that we have to do this through some specific targeted things in the tax system. Then there will be many other groups who believe that their work is at least as important as that of performers. It could, for example, be done. be a fitter who would say that in the monster's optics the monster's work is just as important as the performer's, why should he not have the opportunity for this increased deduction? Against this background, therefore, we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173421	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173424	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his positive attitude to the intention of the proposal. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that in a long and wide range of areas of tax legislation there are already quite specific deductions for particular professional groups, and I would just like to hear whether we can expect a proposal now that the government has been sitting a few years from the government, where all the deductions will be removed before we go on summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173500	The last thing I must disappoint, sir. Søren Søndergaard with us. The government would like to simplify, but I am not aware, as Minister of Taxation, of a move that completely changes our tax system. However, we have a simplification agenda, which is why we want to abolish taxes and also deductions, but I also recognise that the political reality is that there are some particular interests that we would like to take into account. I am sure that some of the former Left Treasures Ministers have also done so, and I may have done so in my time as tax minister, but you have to think carefully when you go that way of deduction. What I find particularly problematic with this proposal from the Enhedslisten is that this is not about increasing the general deduction for travel expenses that could come fitters and people who otherwise travel a lot in connection with their work, to the benefit, but about something that is targeted performers. So it is a very, very narrow deduction, and the narrow focus I think is not the most effective way to support, i.e. that the performers make that part of cultural life flourish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173607	It is perfectly possible to find similar deductions that are targeted very specific and specific groups in the tax legislation, so it is nothing special. I therefore agree with the Minister that it would be good to find another way of financing this amount, in other words to finance the special expenses of artists because they are offered a job where there is no coverage for the stay that is required precisely to get the art out into all areas. I would just like to ask whether a different way of ensuring this has been discussed in the government, because the problem is quite obvious; that can be clarified by a simple inquiry. So there's another way to do it? because then we would like to be completely open to it. We haven't fallen in love with this tax model. We'd like to negotiate another way. Is there another way from the government that we can discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173700	It may be said that if a number of artists made a company about their artistic work and applied the rules that apply to fully legally deduct expenses they have incurred, they might be able to minimize their tax payments in relation to being employees, where you only receive your salary as an A or B income. Then there are those who choose not to do so, because then there are all kinds of other accounting requirements for it. So the desire to create a simpler tax system and make sure that you can have your own one-man business without being a company; you are a middle-man between an employee and a one-man business, and that is a field in which we want to work. However, we do not want to do anything targeted along the tax road to improve the conditions of such a narrow target group as performers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173748	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. I do not see the Social Democrat rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227173811	Thank you for the very nice presentation, President. This is a slightly interesting proposal, because Enhedslisten's normal attitude to things is, of course, that everyone is equal and that everyone should preferably be equally poor. With this proposal, discrimination is being proposed and a very specific group is being pulled out, which needs to be given extra treatment. I might as well say, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that we are not voting for this because we are not in favour of it. The tax minister has explained the background to the current rules, and it is of course very interesting to remember that the deduction was reduced in 2012 when Enhedslisten was a support party for the then government that implemented it. And it was sensible enough to do so on the basis of the large deductions to foreign citizens. As the Minister for Taxation has also mentioned in part, there are many other professional groups who also work away from their place of residence, and why should they not also receive additional deductions? I guess that's the best argument for voting against. We in the Danish People's Party are not in favour of tax special rules for individual groups; many craftsmen, for example. from Jutland works on construction in Copenhagen, many fitters also have days away from home. Then there is the possibility for artists to recover their expenses from employers, where the allowance is tax-free and without a ceiling, or they can become self-employed and thus also deduct their expenses, so simply get a CVR number. Then we are not particularly fond of funding, as is often the case with proposals from the Enhedslisten. So I'm gonna have to disappoint sir. Søren Søndergaard says that Dansk Folkeparti does not support the proposal and will vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174012	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174015	I could not help but speak because I believe that we all know the Danish People's Party's cultural rapporteur as a man who cares about Danish culture and is committed to creating better opportunities for the development of Danish culture. That is why I was just surprised to hear a rapporteur's speech, which actually sounded more like it was the Danish People's Party's tax rapporteur who had gone up on the platform today. I just want to hear sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, who I know has a great and warm heart beating for culture, whether he recognises that there is a problem with the living conditions of performers. It is difficult to finance a life as a performing artist in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174106	When we stand on the platform, we speak on behalf of the Danish People's Party, and of course I have consulted the tax rapporteur, and we are in complete agreement. There's no slings in the waltz. And then I just have to refer to what I said, namely that we are not in favour of special tax rules, and there is the possibility that artists can set themselves up as entrepreneurs and thus be deducted from costs, including transport costs. I've had two small publishing companies myself. I've worked as a self-employed person in that business. I know everything about working, but I am not in any way in favour of tax special rules for a very small group. This is not the right way to go. Then there are also a number of opportunities for artists to get support that other people cannot have. I am thinking in particular of the State Arts Foundation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174208	You do not have to go through the tax route, as the Enhedslisten rapporteur said. You could also go by other means if you agreed with the problem. That is why I would like to ask the question again, perhaps I can rephrase it: does the Danish People's Party's cultural rapporteur not think that there are some problems today in relation to the conditions of performers and creative artists or the possibility of financing their lives as artists?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174240	In fact, in many respects, they have better opportunities to organize their lives. I can just refer to the State Arts Foundation and all the opportunities there to get a scholarship. And then there are the private foundations, where you also have the opportunity to get grants. So I actually believe that artists are better off in some respects than other groups who are also having a difficult time and who have a rather free life and who find it difficult to get things together because they do not have a permanent job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174310	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174313	Dad's not disappointed, he's not angry either. I fully understand the Danish People's Party's policy, and I look forward to seeing that when we now start to find those 50,000 places in the tax legislation where a few small groups can be deducted for one and the other and the third, the Danish People's Party votes for every single time, otherwise there is no connection in what the Danish People's Party says. However, I would like to ask, following on from the rapporteur's speech, whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there is a difference in whether we are talking about an artist who goes out to some short engagement in the province, perhaps with an association or something, and gets a salary for what is not going to be able to pay the travel expenses, but it helps to get the art out into the country and then a plumbing business or a installer shop. In other words, should art function completely in market conditions in line with all other activities that we see in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174417	Taxwise, there is no difference for us. Now, as a writer, I have been out in the lectures in the parishes, in the churches, and elsewhere, and there I was paid my transport costs. As I said, you can just set yourself up as sole proprietorship, so you have the option of deduction. I think it is a slightly thought-out motion for a resolution, and I apologise for saying it so directly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174446	But it is funny, because then we end up in a particular ideological construction, where it is not about the principle and where it is not about the money, but about whether the artist in question has chosen to be independent or has chosen to be an employee. So that's what this is all about. It is simply a question of the artist being self-employed and not an employee. I would like to know what other consequences this has in a large number of other areas. But the interesting thing is whether it is only ideology. So it's not about the thing about whether you can get the deduction. You can if you're self-employed, but you can't get it if you're an employee. Is it the case that the Danish People's Party's policy is linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174533	We are simply referring to the possibility of deduction of transport costs by choosing a different structure, including self-employment. We really think that's a good way to do that. In fact, we think it is good that there are many self-employed people. The more self-employed, the better. Who says they should have some sort of employee function? It is difficult to call them employees when they do so on a consultative basis or on a freedom basis. I actually think it's a good thing that you're self-employed. That's by far the best. The more, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174610	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174633	I think the Minister made a good speech, and at the same time it was very nice to hear the Minister make a speech which had not been read in advance. So I think it deserves all honour and respect. And then I would also like to continue in the cheerful tone of welcoming that Enhedslisten thinks it matters to get rid of cheaper taxes. It is something that promotes business that you can get a tax deduction, so I think that is really, really nice to see. I also think it may be a little strange to see that the so-called Workers' Party, which they seem to still call themselves, believes that artists and construction workers should be discriminated against, because that is what this is all about. It is professional groups who are in many ways in the same situation. These are professional groups who have the challenge of often being away from their homes and thus having to stay in a hotel or eat out etc. and therefore may require a deduction. But we cannot in the Left support go in and take one group, the artists, and say that they should be treated better than other groups which might have a similar or similar need. It is not because we do not believe that artists are an important part of our cultural life. We believe that, and we also understand the problem, but we believe that there are other ways of overcoming it. For example: If you are self-employed, that is also an option, and you have some other options for deduction there. But so, builders, fitters, etc. and others are in a similar situation, and why we should just go out and take this group out and tell them to remove the ceiling for how much they can deduct, but that others shouldn't, we're having a little trouble seeing. Then there is also a discussion about whether the amount which Enhedslisten thinks it will cost to implement the proposal, these around. 10 million kr., is too low set. But even if it is not too low, there were other things we would rather spend 10 million. kr. On. So again I must disappoint: we cannot support the motion for a resolution by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174850	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174853	Now I understand that the proposal by the Left on how to avoid getting into the situation that, as an artist, you cannot get a deduction for travel expenses in connection with travel is to become self-employed. Is it then also the call and solution of the Left to employees, builders, that they should all become self-employed and set up an independent company?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174922	No, I don't think it's a comparable situation. Well, as an artist, you usually have a lot of different educators. As builders, you typically want one employer, and there is no possibility that you can then reduce yourself as a self-employed person. In order to be self-employed, it is necessary to be genuinely independent and therefore to have several different employers. It is a situation in which most builders are not in, whereas it is a situation that fits very well for a great many artists. And there are very many artists who have established themselves as self-employed people and have set up a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227174959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175001	I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the Left that the two groups cannot be compared. In other words, you cannot compare the two groups because one group typically works in a field where the starting point is not that money should be made. A salary must be paid and the staff who fit the performances of the theatre association and the one who serves the beer must be paid. The beer must be paid and the rent paid etc. The starting point is not necessarily that wages should be earned to anyone. When we talk about a craftsman, however, the starting point is that it is an enterprise that competes with other enterprises, where the starting point is to make a profit. This means that there is a big difference, and this reduced travel allowance is particularly affecting the group of artists we are talking about here. Does the rapporteur of the Left not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175059	No, not immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175104	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We'll move on, and the next one's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175114	Thank you. It is clear that when Enhedslisten, as part of their policy, is working on tax cuts, it is obvious that this is, however, for a very limited group. But I look forward to and expect that the next time the Liberal Alliance fights a hard fight for tax relief to ordinary people, like at the bottom, Enhedslisten will support up. When we were working on this at Christmas time, I did not see Enhedslisten support for our efforts to provide tax relief to ordinary people who could have helped this group as well, instead of introducing special treatment for individual groups. I can understand that, sir. Søren Søndergaard's plan for this week that we get more of the same kind, namely where you choose individual groups as you want to give tax relief. When we work with tax cuts in the Liberal Alliance, it is for Danes to be able to pay to work, and thus to create better conditions for all and not the kind of jungle of tax policy that ordinary people can't find out. It only gets worse by making special rules and deductions, and what do I know for some people. We'd rather go the other way. We are very much in favour of tax reductions and tax reductions. I don't think anyone can accuse the Liberal Alliance of not doing that. We fight for it with beaks and claws and almost risk our lives for it, and there we lack Enhedslisten's help. But I look forward to the Enhedslisten next time being on the barricades to ensure a very good policy with lower taxes, so that these people, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard is now particularly interested in, also getting better conditions. So we look forward to that and then we want to work together. But it also says that we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175302	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175305	Now, has it really gone over the head of the Liberal Alliance that Enhedslisten, as a key point in its policy, has tax cuts to the lowest-paid? Has it passed the view of the Liberal Alliance? I'm sorry, but we're gonna have to send the party program to the Liberal Alliance. But it is clear that the big question is how to finance them. And there we may have to say that we do not want to finance tax cuts for the disadvantaged by reducing social welfare or, for that matter, in any other way that affects ordinary people. So if we can agree on that and find some ways, for example. By raising the top tax, I am sure there is a chance of a compromise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175407	I do not think it has gone over the head of the Liberal Alliance as to who is in favour of tax relief or not. And if you don't, sir. Søren Søndergaard is aware, he will know that part of the tax package that came through was actually tax relief for ordinary people. I didn't see sir there. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten support Liberal Alliance or vote in favour or even just help. So I look forward very much to this happening in the future, given that it is Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten's policy. For tax reliefs, the welfare of ordinary people ensures personal well-being, the ability to cope more self-sufficiently instead of the mantra that I sense the Enhedslisten suffers otherwise, namely that you have to charge as much tax as possible in order to distribute to the right and left in the form of grants. And that's where there might be a difference. But I look forward very much to our coming in the same direction, sir. Søren Søndergaard, next time there will be tax negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175501	I can fully confirm that we are fully prepared to negotiate tax cuts for the disadvantaged. But the result of the Liberal Alliance's move was that the tax relief was primarily at the top. That's where the biggest tax cuts were. And that is only a repetition of what we have seen over a number of years, unfortunately also under a social democratic government, and it is even worse if we take up the proposals made by the Liberal Alliance in general in the area of taxation. Then it's tax relief at the top. Wasn't there anything about removing the top tax, or would something happen or do I remember wrong? However, if the Liberal Alliance has come to the conclusion that the disadvantaged in this society must have tax relief and that it should not be financed by cutting welfare, we are ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175555	For the Danes and the development of society, it would be very good to remove the top tax, which is why it is a very good element in Liberal Alliance's policy. We have recognised that there is no majority in favour of it, and that is why it was another policy that was put forward in the tax negotiations in the autumn. That is what I was appealing to, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard might have found his way to the negotiations if one is so concerned about ensuring quite ordinary people better conditions by giving them tax relief. That's why I'm looking forward to it. Because I certainly believe that we will bring more of this kind, at least what a majority can be found for, because any tax relief is a good tax relief. It gives greater personal freedom, and we are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175635	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175642	Thank you. It is always interesting when you come down to the Chamber after preparing for a case, but then you can hear that everyone else has prepared for a completely different part of that matter. What I thought was important when I was reading this motion for a resolution is how we create proper conditions for performers and how we actually create the possibility that there might be a living art and cultural environment throughout Denmark. That's what this proposal is all about. It is when we talk to the performers and their organisations that we hear that they are facing a challenge. Well, then let's solve it! So instead of symbolically moving institutions around and thus creating cultural cannibalism in this way, let us actually provide opportunities for performers to work throughout the country. This is what is being done with this proposal and, of course, we fully support it because it is a way of giving the individual artist the opportunity to work throughout the country and thus being part of a living art and culture environment throughout Denmark. It would be nice if we concentrated on it, but we started talking about top tax relief or tax relief at the bottom, instead of calling for us to try to look at the challenge we face. Exercising artists face a real problem, because they cannot make the economy stick together when they have to work all over the country, and here we have an opportunity to actually ease the conditions for them, and we just have to say we warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175813	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227175821	Thank you. We also welcome this proposal. We have also tabled it ourselves, not in the Parliamentary Chamber, but in the debate on finance law last year. But we never became part of that financial law agreement, so that was not something we achieved. But that is why we support the idea. I really want to tell you about an experience that for me was a pretty big eye-opener. A few years ago, I attended the meeting of the Minister for Culture's Rødding at the time, it was Bertel Haarder who was Minister for Culture and there was a great deal of cultural life represented, and the very last day of the very last presentation there is one who stands up and says: It is actually a little thought-provoking who is here today, because it is cultural life, but where are the performers and creative artists really? After all, it is the representatives of the institutions who are present. It was a big eye opener for me. Because I really think that there is a serious and inappropriate distortion in our cultural and artistic support, where we give priority to institutions rather than artists, and that is why I welcome not only this proposal but also the other proposals put forward by Enhedslisten. We are not going to support them all, but I like the starting point, i.e. to make a package or a series of measures to improve the living conditions, or perhaps it is in fact also wrong to talk about the living conditions, but the conditions for performers and creative artists. Because this isn't a matter of treating the arts very well, because we like them better than the construction workers, which is the argument that some people are trying to shoot us in the shoes from up here. Because it's about culture. It is about our desire for a living cultural life, and it is not only the large buildings that create culture, it is also the people who fill them with content. That is why I think this focus is really important, and it is something that we would very much like to continue working on, and that is why I am a little sorry about today's debate. For it has become more a tax-technical debate than a debate on how to create better conditions for performers and creative artists and try to change the bias that exists between institutions today. I have of course noticed that there is a struggle with the institutions, and the Danish People's Party is trying to shift the balance from the big cities to the province. It is also an exciting discussion, but there is another balance here, which there has been far too little focus on • and I would like to thank Enhedslisten for highlighting the balance between institutions, bricks, administrators etc. on the one hand, and then the performers on the other. It might actually be quite interesting to see one day if we give up cultural support for the entire cultural life, how many of the total funds the artists actually get and how much goes into operation, bricks etc. etc. So we can at least support this proposal and thank you for the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180126	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why I shall pass on the floor to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180146	I have to say that I think that Enhedslisten is in a very sensible development at the moment. The other day, I saw Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's Instagram that she is taking a driving licence, and today we see Enhedslisten proposing tax cuts to an elite, not the economic elite, but the cultural elite. So it seems as if some bourgeoisie is intruding into the Enhedslisten, and we welcome that very much, of course. There are some things in this proposal that make it impossible for us to vote in favour of it. First of all, Enhedslisten has not assigned any useful funding from our point of view. We do not have any kind of money, we can distribute tax cuts in time and early, we usually take this in larger agreements rather than in such individual drip-wise motions for resolutions to specially proposed electoral groups, with which we are trying to encourage ourselves. Secondly, we are also in favour of having a simple tax system in which the same rules apply to all, rather than making special arrangements for certain occupational groups. So we cannot therefore support the proposal, but we are very pleased that Enhedslisten is proposing tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180257	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180300	Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also like previous rapporteurs, the one about picking out a single group, and that was so special. I don't know if sir. Rasmus Jarlov may remember when we dealt with a proposal in this Chamber that athletes who had won a medal had become number three instead of number four, perhaps by chance, should not have to pay tax on that prize and therefore should have a special deduction. Was it something that the Conservative People's Party supported? And was it passed? And Mr. Perhaps Rasmus Jarlov can inform the audience if he can remember who the other parties were, who put forward the proposal, which was therefore about taking out one tiny group and granting it a tax relief, that is, completely outside of any great agreement, but completely isolated?
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180400	Well, sir, it's gonna be okay. Søren Søndergaard saw it's fair enough with points scored there. There are no listeners at the moment at all, but to those who are then not here, I acknowledge that point. Perhaps you could say, however, that this applies to everyone who wins sports prizes, and not necessarily to a particular group, and, of course, sometimes there is a need for special rules. But we want to keep it down, and we don't see the need in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180426	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the turn has come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227180440	First of all, I would like to say to the Conservative rapporteur that all those sitting on the screen are also listeners, and they must also have the opportunity to follow our debate. I think we should also speak in favour of them. Then I would say that I am not actually so surprised that this debate ended where it did. Well, it's a little bit because this case is being put on the Tax Committee. I think we would have had another debate if it had been the Committee on Culture not necessarily because people had come to a different conclusion, but because there had been a different starting point, a cultural starting point and not a tax point. But that's how the rules are in here in the Folketing. This is not something we can decide. We have now asked for the matter to be referred to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, for example. there to discuss whether there can be some other ways of doing so in order to resolve the problem. I welcome the rapporteur of the SF, who is prevented from being here because of illness. SF has some issues that they want to raise in committee, but SF supports this proposal, and of course we say thank you for that, just as we say thanks to the alternative and to the Radicals, and then I must say to the Social Democratic Party that whoever is silent agrees, so it may be that the Social Democratic Party also supports it here, and then it actually promises very good for the situation after the elections that we will have before that very long and which will lead to a new government, among other things. because people are tired of the huge tax cuts that constantly come to the richest in our country. I would say that this proposal is about three things. Firstly, it is a cultural aid scheme. Yeah, let's just say it like it is. It's a cultural aid scheme. It is clear that the assessment of a cultural aid scheme is not based on whether similar schemes are given to anything else. No, you don't. It's a cultural support scheme... a cultural support scheme for people who are in work who have a job that has an employment that some will see and hear. It is a cultural support scheme for them. Secondly, it is an employment scheme because the model you have now costs jobs. We want some more to be removed from passive support and into active employment. So it is a very good idea that instead of being a place where it is not worth going to work, going to work, getting an income and then paying a tax on it. God knows if it's going to cost anything at all if you put it all together. Thirdly, it is about the cohesion of Denmark to make Denmark hang together, for no matter how much Left dream of moving the Royal Theatre to Skagen and Christiansborg to Middelfart and Left headquarters to Anholt etc. etc., the reality is that cultural institutions cannot be relocated to such an extent, so every small town in Denmark has a cultural institution. Shouldn't they have culture? Shouldn't they have a little volunteer theater where they can hire some actors? Shouldn't they have a small place where they can make some music on a voluntary basis? Shouldn't they be able to do that and pay the artists what it costs? Yes, of course they do, and it is in this context that it is among other things. is relevant to this arrangement. It will help to get the culture, like a number of our other proposals that we will be dealing with on Thursday, all the way out, where people are and where the Royal Theatre never comes, no matter how much relocation you talk about. So that is what this proposal is about, and that is why, of course, we think it is a good proposal. Many performers, for example: actors and musicians, have more nights spent in their work than worth the DKK 26,200. In 2016, I think it was that you can deduct maximum travel expenses corresponding to 38 days at standard rates. For example: In the case of the Danish Actor Association, a survey shows that almost one third of the members have more than 38 days of work and almost one third of the members. That means these artists have to bring money to go to work. They must bring money to take the culture to somewhere because they must have covered their journey and they must have covered their accommodation and the necessities that are, being away from their work. What is the result of this? Yes, it is that there are artists who are more unemployed than they should be. It is that there are jobs in the cultural sector that are not being carried out, especially far away, and that again means that Denmark is becoming more culturally skewed than it should be culturally skewed than it should be. Our purpose in this proposal is to solve this problem. If there are better ways of doing this than our proposals, we would be happy to hear them. We're not fixed on a specific solution. We're fixated on solving a particular problem. Previously, up to 2013, the general deduction for travel expenses was twice as high and, as has been mentioned, it was reduced due to the risk and clear examples of abuse of foreign workers. We saw how cynical employers used the travel allowance as part of the salary so that they could pay people under a collective wage, because one could say that they could get a travel allowance and then they could live in a basement, or whatever. So we understand the concern that was in relation to the old model, and that is why we have chosen to leave this proposal, with the three arguments I mentioned before, that is to say employment, to make Denmark relate culturally and the question of cultural aid, to performers alone. And I would like to quote from the remarks: to the extent that the travel expenses are incurred in connection with artistic work. This means that it is held in connection with artistic work. There is no such thing in general where we give some money to some people and we do not know what comes out of it. No, there are some people in the country in Skagen and in Gedser and Thyborøn who have asked to get some people out to perform and do some theater or something, and that's what we're promoting with this proposal. Then the proposal is affordable. In other words, I heard that the rapporteur of the Left was in doubt as to whether it could remain within the 10 million. kr. I'd like to see some calculations from the Treasury showing something else. Our assessment is that it can be kept within the 10 million. kr., but if that's what's in the criticism, that's that it's more than 10 million. kr., we can take a look at it too. Whatever the case, it is a very, very small amount we are talking about, but as I said, it is a large amount for performers and it is a large amount in relation to helping to bring the art right out into the country. I look forward to a good debate in the Committee on Culture. This proposal is not so important, but it is on the basis of this proposal, with the aim of resolving the problem which this proposal deals with, and if it cannot be done under the current government, we hope that it will be done under the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227181239	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, rapporteur for the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180227181255	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 28 February 2018, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
