ParlaMint-DK_20180403130019	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Request no. F 28 (What is the Government's response to the information that Denmark and the EU have funded Turkish border guards on the border with Syria, what does the government intend to do to follow up the matter and give rise to a reconsideration of Denmark's support for the EU-Turkey agreement?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130048	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130124	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130143	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130216	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130227	Thank you for that, President. With the bill we are discussing here today, we are dealing with the necessary legislative changes resulting from the arms directive III, which was adopted in the wake of the terrible terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in 2015. The bill extends the rules of the arms law on the marking of firearms. All firearms covered by the Arms Directive III will therefore be subject to the labelling requirements in force. The purpose of labelling is then to provide a basis for the exchange of information between the EU Member States' authorities on specific weapons to be reinforced. In addition, the proposal also amends the rules governing the arms licence itself. So far it has been the case that a permit for arms was valid for a 10-year period, and that period is now reduced to 5 years with this proposal. At the same time, the proposal, and hence the directive, will, of course, set in motion a greater focus on the detection of illegal firearms. These are all quite sensible proposals which the Social Democrats can of course support. This is proof that there are too many illegal weapons in circulation. There is a need to put more pressure on it. We have seen terrible events when it is not done, and this is proof that it has to be done somewhere, at least it has to be in the European Union. That is why this is proof that, in this context, EU cooperation is helping to strengthen efforts to combat and combat cross-border crime. So social democracy can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130420	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130428	Thank you for that, President. The proposal we are debating now aims to implement arms directive III from the European Union into Danish legislation, and there are two specific points to focus on: firstly, the marking of weapons, which makes it more specific and marks the individual parts of the weapon, so that it becomes the case that running or pipe, frame, locking chair, sled, drum, bottom piece and lock should be labelled. Secondly, greater control must be exercised over traders and police who handle these weapons. One can of course mean a lot about weapons, but it is also my impression that we should not try to solve problems in Denmark which are extremely small. When it comes to a weapons directive covering all EU countries, one might get the idea that it is because in some other countries there are some major problems with the arms management with many illegal weapons floating around, but it is actually my impression and our impression in the Danish People's Party that Denmark is a fairly well-regulated country and that we have a very strict arms law. We are pleased about that too, but there must also be a limit to how small the sparrows must be before we start pulling the heavy cannons of houses and shooting at them. At the time when we gave a mandate to the Committee on European Affairs in this area concerning the Arms Directive, we refused to give the mandate to what was proposed, because it was our impression that Denmark could handle this issue well without the EU interfering. The fact that in other countries people need to adopt legislation that could regulate this anymore, I do not think there can be any question about it at all. The question is whether, once again, we in Denmark should tighten the screw against something that we believe is very, very well regulated. We think that things are quite well under control, in fact very well under control in Denmark, as they are already, and that is why we do not intend to support the proposal as it stands. There are, of course, a few things that we must also deepen when we move forward in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but we do not intend to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130646	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130654	Thank you. With the proposal now before us, we are implementing the arms directive III, probably mainly based on the incidents in Paris and the powder keg here in Denmark. We already have a fairly strict arms law in Denmark, and that is why this law and this directive do not mean any significant changes. The changes can be described mainly by labelling not only the weapons but also the various parts of the weapon. In addition, the proposal means that the period of validity of arms permits will be changed so that arms permits granted to arms collectors and permits for signal weapons and combined gas and signal weapons will in future only be granted for a 5-year period and not 10 years as today. I must stress that shotguns and rifles are not included in the proposal and that the proposal does not therefore affect the equipment of the police or the defence at all. Finally, the proposal provides for an authorisation to require a closer registration of arms dealers and transactions carried out through arms dealers. This is the result of the EU directive and, in general terms, at least the first part of the legislative proposal increases the traceability of arms and parts thereof. That is also true in the comments on the registration of arms dealers. So the Left can support the proposal in any respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130829	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next on the platform is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130844	This bill, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is a legislative proposal that comes as a result of an EU directive adopted as a follow-up to the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in 2015. And in Enhedslisten we very much welcome this proposal. The draft law extends the rules of the arms law on the marking of firearms, so that all the essential parts of the weapon are covered by labelling requirements, making it easier to solve crimes involving firearms. Fortunately, our arms legislation in Denmark is very tight and the area is very well regulated, and it is one of the most secure countries in the world. And a further tightening of the rules will hopefully prevent more crime and more terrorist attacks. We have the feeling in the Enhedslisten that the fewer people have access to firearms and the more controls there are with the firearms there are, the less the risk of guns falling into the wrong hands. And that's why we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403130955	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131008	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here contains a number of initiatives that will allow authorities across Europe to be able to trace precisely weapons used for, for example, terrorism or gang crime. It will be an important tool also for the police in Denmark that they can quickly and simply find the owner of a firearm. I am pleased that the bill follows the government's general principle of not over-implementing EU legislation. This is important so that we do not inadvertently impair the competitiveness of companies. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister for Justice is prepared to involve the industry in the process of reaching the least intrusive implementation of the directive, so that it does not impose unnecessary burdens on business. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131057	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131104	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, this is, after all, a follow-up to the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen 2015 and the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the amendment of the acquisition and possession of weapons in Danish law. We welcome the extension in the Alternative of the rules of the Arms Act on the marking of firearms, so that all the essential parts of the firearms must be covered by the labelling requirements. The marking shall form the basis for the registration of both firearms and essential parts of firearms in police arms registration and the arms registers of the gun associations and for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States. Then the bill also proposes authorising the Minister of Justice to lay down detailed rules on the registration of arms dealers and arms brokers and on the reporting by arms dealers and arms brokers of transactions on the purchase and sale of firearms, etc. And, last but not least, the draft law amends the rules for the validity of arms permits, so that licences for arms collectors and permits for signal weapons and combined gas and signal weapons will in future only be granted for a 5-year period as opposed to the 10 years as it is today. All in all, we are very positive about this bill. We think it is a good idea for this area to be tightened up so that we can also work together across Europe on these matters so that the alternative backs up the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131230	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stamp as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131244	Thank you. We also support the proposal, which provides for stricter rules on the marking of arms, specifically arms parts, and the possibility for the Minister of Justice to make stricter rules on the registration of arms dealers and brokers and their trades. And then it is also about the validity of arms permits, which goes from 10 to 5 years. This is all something that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131310	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131322	There are too many illegal weapons in circulation in the world, and the trade in weapons is international. That is why it is good that the European Union is taking an initiative. The bill contains various tightenings which can strengthen the control of weapons. It is good that Denmark already has a relatively good look at the weapons that are in the country. But reality is changing, and SF supports initiatives that tighten the network on weapons, among other things. with stricter labelling requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131358	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131407	The aim of the draft law is for the government to implement parts of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the acquisition and possession of weapons. And the aim is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in arms and, of course, to ensure a high level of safety. We must, of course, comply with the directive. The bill extends the registration already provided for in the arms law and also provides better opportunities for European cooperation in arms control. We must be able to control and regulate Danish firearms and it must be easy to trace weapons across national borders. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131453	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131500	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the most positive contributions to the draft law. The aim, as several speakers have said, is to transpose parts of the arms directive III into Danish law. It is a minimum harmonisation directive aimed, on the one hand, at promoting the smooth functioning of the internal market for firearms in the European Union and, on the other hand, at ensuring a high level of safety for European citizens. As several have also mentioned, the directive has been adopted as part of the follow-up to the terrorist attacks that took place in Paris and Copenhagen in 2015. We in Denmark have strict arms legislation in general, and that is why the directive did not require any major changes to the arms law either. The directive puts the overall focus on increasing the traceability of firearms in the EU by introducing a number of new requirements for the marking and registration of firearms and essential parts of firearms. Firstly, therefore, the draft law also extends the rules of the arms law on the marking of firearms, among other things. so that in the future all the essential parts of the firearm shall be marked separately. Secondly, it proposes to introduce an authorisation to lay down detailed rules on the registration of arms dealers and arms brokers and on the reporting of transactions by arms dealers and arms brokers on the purchase and sale of firearms, etc. Thirdly, the draft law amends the rules governing the period of validity of arms permits, so that licences for arms collectors and permits for signal weapons and combined gas and signal weapons will only be granted for a 5-year period as opposed to a 10-year period today. The remaining parts of the Arms Directive, which require transposition into Danish law, will later be implemented administratively by amendments to inter alia: The arms regulation, and in this context, of course, stakeholders in this area will be involved in a dialogue on how best to tackle this task in order to ensure the best possible and most flexible implementation of the requirements of the directive. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that might come during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131707	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131711	Thank you. Since the Danish People's Party was very sceptical about this directive at its time in the Committee on European Affairs, I would just like to ask the Minister for Justice whether the Minister for Justice remembers which other party was also strongly sceptical about this particular directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131730	No, I can't, but I assume that when that question is asked, it's probably because it was the Conservative People's Party. I could imagine. This may have something to do with the fact that we have strict arms legislation, and I also think it is important, and we have got a lot of credit for that, in fact, in this whole process we have involved both the process in Parliament and the process here at home. There's this dialogue forum where, for example, The Danish Hunger Association and the arms dealers and others are involved, who have been very pleased with the way we have handled it, and we will continue to involve them, because I think that is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131806	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131808	I think it is a good thing that the Minister ends with it, because it is true that it was the Conservatives who were very sceptical and strongly opposed to this a few years ago. I think it might just be that somewhere it is a little thoughtful that we are very busy in here to solve really big problems, which may be major problems in other EU countries, but just as the Minister says, we are incredibly well regulated in Denmark and have a strict arms law. I think that all the parties in the Folketing support this, and that is why I think it is strange that the Minister can now recommend the implementation of this directive in this way, since I know just now that the Conservatives have been opposed in the past to the fact that it was something that should be decided by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131850	However, that question should have been put to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, for as Minister of Justice I am, after all, a representative of government policy. Having said that, however, I feel that there has been a long process in the European Parliament about this, and there has been a good process at home, and the forward-looking process that we are going to have will also be with the involvement of stakeholders, because I agree that we have strict legislation. That is also why it is a minimum harmonisation directive, and that is why there will be no such drastic changes. Because we have strict arms legislation, and I think that is very good that we do. We can all be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131924	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403131939	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132003	Thank you for that, President. The draft law, which we are now going to deal with here in the Folketing, is part of the implementation of the multi-annual agreement on criminal justice, i.e. the changes to the law resulting from the political agreement we have made. Social democracy, as you know, is included in the multi-year agreement on criminal justice, and among the main points we had in the negotiations on the multi-year agreement, it was of course essential to focus on the developments that are currently in our prisons. It can be said that, on the one hand, there are fewer people in prison, but that those who are then sitting there are much harder and are also sitting there longer. That is why we have agreed, and we are very pleased about this, a very special focus on strengthening the security and security of the employees in the Department of Criminal Services, and in addition, with the multi-year agreement, we have had a very special focus on gang members and criminal aliens, which fills an excessive proportion of the criminal services institutions. The bill then adds to the rules of the Penal Code that inmates associated with the gang environment are cut off from having visitors who may be associated with the gang environment, and especially if the visit takes place during a pending gang conflict. Secondly, the proposal also provides for the possibility, as it were, of saving part of the employment burden of the inmates, that is to say the money that is being paid in the criminal services to do the kind of employment that is now being done when you are in prison, and this money can then be used to cover the costs associated with exit or release. The draft law also contains a proposal to make the extension and improvement of training in some of the institutions of the Criminal Services permanent, and we are particularly pleased about this. It is clear that, although you have been sitting for a long time, you have to go out on the other side without committing any new crime, so that we have even more victims of crime. We should like to have fewer victims of crime, and that is why the improvements in education are important, and this has been a matter of social democracy. Finally, I would like to say that the draft law also provides for the possibility of strengthening the control of prisoners. Not least, it has been an important matter for the Social Democrats, because as I started by saying, the reality is that with the clientele that sits in the institutions of the Criminal Services right now, with many criminal aliens and very many gang members, that the employees of the Criminal Services, both the prison officers and the other employees, are reporting on a wide range of concerns and a quite different mentality among the inmates than they have seen in the past. That is why we need to take good care of our staff in the Department of Criminal Services, because they are doing a huge amount of work to ensure that the Department of Criminal Services works. The initiatives that have been taken here must also be seen in the light of a desire to strengthen, not least, the safety of employees, so that going to work in the Department of Justice can also be such that one thinks about work and not so much about one's own safety, and that one gets the necessary tools and opportunities to have a proper working life in the Department of Criminal Welfare. So in those words, the Social Democrats will support both the multi-year agreement that is behind this bill, but of course also the elements contained in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132334	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132343	Thank you. Over the last few years, there has been totally unreasonable pressure on our criminal services and, above all, the people who go to work every day to ensure order and order in the institutions of the criminal services that deal with some of the worst criminals in this country. The prison composition has become tougher, more bikers and more gang members have been sent to serve, and more foreigners are filling up in our prisons and detention houses around. And everything else just created a harder climate right there. That is why it was good when last year we agreed on a new multi-annual agreement for criminal justice, which, of course, is helping to strengthen the possibilities for the criminal services to deal with this situation. It goes without saying that an agreement that we have helped to conclude with other parties in the Folketing is something that we are of course also standing by, so I can already announce that we are of course in favour of this draft law, L 203. With this bill, the visit opportunities for the imprisoned gang members who had to sit around in the event of an ongoing conflict are being tightened up enormously, and of course we are very, very happy about that. Because some of the most hardened criminals in this country need to be dealt with hard. We can fully support that. In addition, compulsory savings of 15% are introduced. of the employment bill. We are also very pleased that it was one of the things we brought under our arms when we negotiated this agreement. We think it is only right and proper that we should contribute, as an employed person, to our own return journey or to some of the costs of exiting, to the extent that we can. So we can support that element too. Of course, the Danes do not have to pay for this. In addition, the possibilities for control in prisons are being strengthened, and we are also very pleased with this, so much support for it as for continuing the initiatives in the field of education. Moreover, I can agree entirely with the Socialist rapporteur from before. So all in all, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132552	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132600	The government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radicals, the SF and the Alternative reached an agreement late last year on the economy of the Criminal Services, and the proposal we are discussing today deals with cases where a change of law is actually required in order to implement the agreement. I can only agree with the comments on the importance of security in prisons, but at the same time I must say that this is certainly not the main point of this proposal. Of course, the security is essential, but the issues dealt with here in the proposal are, after all, something else. You expand the visitor cut-off for gang members. If there is a conflict, then neither friends nor enemies can visit you in the conflict, and that is only fair. However, what is worth examining is that I should not rule out that it does, but we can do that through the Legal Affairs Committee. It introduces compulsory savings so that the inmate himself has to pay for his or her release costs, typically transport costs. I had almost said, Who else would be closer to paying for it? As I understand it, it covers both foreigners and Danes. We fully agree with that. But there must be a life on the other side of the prison, as the Social Democrat rapporteur correctly put it, and therefore it is excellent that there should be permanent training within the AMU. It will be possible to test inmates' alcohol and confiscate cigarettes, etc. Surely it is a natural thing, when we have adopted a ban on these things in prisons, that there is also a possibility of control. So the Left is largely in agreement with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403132811	Thank you. The draft law, as previous rapporteurs have mentioned, contains a number of different proposals. I will deal with four parts of the bill. First of all, there's this thing about compulsory savings. I have the impression that this proposal is aimed primarily at those threatened with expulsion. This is demonstrated by the Minister for Justice's statements in a press release issued by the Ministry on 26 January 2018 when the bill was sent in consultation, and by the position of the proposal under the main heading "Strengthened action against criminal aliens' in the criminal services agreement. When the bill now covers all prisoners, I am tempted to think that it is because it will avoid being accused of discrimination against expelled foreigners. It is not stated in the comments how much expenditure the State will save by implementing this proposal with compulsory savings, but one has to doubt that the saving is such that it will be proportionate to the intervention that the proposed scheme will mean for all prisoners in Danish prisons. In doing so, the scheme may be contrary to generally accepted proportionality considerations. That is certainly our view in the Enhedslisten, but perhaps the Minister can clarify that later. In addition, the scheme will involve a return to unnecessary paternalism, which was abandoned decades ago in Danish prisons when it comes to the payment of employment allowances to the inmates. Nor do the comments on the draft law indicate what the consequences of forced savings will be, including, for example: in writing. - (FR) The fact that the inmate, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, has to have a life after serving his sentence. These and other unclear matters will be addressed in the Enhedslisten by asking written questions to the Minister of Justice. Secondly, there is the part about extending the possibility of visiting cut-off. In other words, I can understand and understand the thinking that gang members should not be visited by members of the same gang, as this can help create insecurity in prison. The problem with the way in which the draft law is drafted is that it can very easily violate the Convention on Human Rights. This means that inmates may be cut off from the possibility of having visitors from related persons and family members, and this is, as has been said, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8, on respect for family life. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the rule should be reversed, so that visits by relatives and other related persons should be allowed as a starting point and prohibited only if specific specific risk considerations apply. In the hearing answers, the Lawyer Society and the Institute for Human Rights are also talking about this, and we agree with that. Thirdly, the draft law also provides for the possibility of extending the use of alcohol tests, and that is where we in the Enhedslisten would just like to emphasise that an alcohol test is not sufficiently safe and is not proof in itself. If there's gonna be any evidence, there's gonna be another blood test. Fourthly, I would just like to say that we are very much in favour of the part about the fact that the inmates have an extended opportunity to take AMU courses, but that is a small part of this proposal that we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133155	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133205	Thank you, President. Let me start by saying that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill, which translates into a series of measures that were agreed in the context of establishing the financial framework for criminal justice. There are some elements on which I would like to comment. Firstly, the extension of the rules for visiting: it is contrary to my sense of justice, and I also believe that many others, that convicted gang criminals inside the prison can continue to plan crime outside the prison. They can, among other things. because they are free to visit their gangmates while they are in prison. That is simply not fair, and we are putting an end to this. Secondly, I would like to say that it cuts my otherwise rather liberal heart a little, that we need to force someone to save part of their salary, but sometimes we also have to look pragmatically at a problem. In this case, the problem is that a great many deported criminals simply cannot afford to pay for their own repatriation, so the bill ends with the Danish taxpayers. The people who are being expelled have not contributed much positive to society, and therefore it is quite reasonable that they should not have this last gesture in the form of a fully paid return ticket. Finally, there is the proposal to make the offer of AMU courses permanent. It has so far been an experimental scheme and the experience has been very good. It is important that we not only use prisons as a sanction, but also as a preventive tool. With these AMU courses, we're improving the inmates' ability to correct their lives so they don't get back in touch with the Department of Criminal Services. In those words, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133352	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133359	Thank you. As several have mentioned, this is part of a multi-year agreement for the criminal services economy for 2018-2021 concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, which is why we also support this bill. I would just like to make a few comments on that. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, inmates, which are part of a gang group, can now be cut off from people who are also part of a gang group. Some of the consultation answers discuss whether the fact that family members can also be cut off is not too intrusive and state that there must be at least a right of appeal. I fully agree with the critics who say that there is a great deal to be done in order to prevent family members from visiting an inmate, and therefore I am also glad that this bill adds to the fact that there is administrative redress if family members are cut off. But we must also recognise that there is a need to impress on inmates who are part of a gang that it is not possible to get visitors from outside gang members. Then there is the fact that 15% can be withheld. the employment allowance of the inmates in order to ensure that the inmates have the means to cover the costs which they must bear in connection with exit or release. It is, of course, a proposal that has been made in connection with the fact that the expulsion sentenced people cannot afford or have not saved up to pay for their own repatriation. What is happening with this proposal is, of course, that it affects all prisoners widely, which is why I would like us to be able to look at in committee, as several of the hearings also point out, that there may be an ongoing proportionality assessment, so that we are quite sure that it is not too intrusive for the individual. Those were the times in this bill. Then there is what I think is very positive, and that is that the current temporary system of labour market training, that is, AMU, is being made permanent in open and closed prisons and selected detention houses. Then the whole part about safety and security for the employees also fills part of this multi-year agreement, and we are very happy about that in the Alternative. It is a huge amount of work done by the prison staff. They often work under very pressure and with some of the most criminals we have in the country. As was also mentioned earlier from the platform, crime in Denmark has, fortunately, fallen, but the inmates are getting harder and harder, which is why the prison is a hard environment to work in. That is why it is very good that the part dealing with safety and safety for employees has also been turned up. We are very much aware of this in the alternative. The last part of the proposal deals with the possibility of confiscating tobacco and other smoking media, and it has to be said that this is a natural follow-up to the fact that smoking has now been banned in prisons, so we support that too. So all in all, of course, we support this proposal in that we are in the agreement itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133749	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403133804	Thank you. The bill is, after all, part of the implementation of the settlement on criminal justice and the economy of the criminal services, which was dealt with before Christmas. Unfortunately, none of us were aware of it. However, we have then chosen to accede to the conciliation procedure, because we think it is broadly right to do so. However, it is clear that there are also some things which have not grown in our backyard, but which, of course, when we enter into the conciliation, we support, but which we will also pay extra attention to. If I am to start with the really positive aspect, it is not least the part of education that is being expanded or, in fact, the temporary arrangement that has been applied to labour market training. We are very pleased about this, because we believe that education is one of the very paths one can take if one wants to avoid people going out and committing new crime, but on the contrary, it comes on the right track and finds a way of life other than the criminal. But there are also some points that we will pay particular attention to in the conciliation circle. We support the bill, but we will also use our place in the conciliation circle to follow these areas. It acts among other things. about this cutting off from visits, which we support. Nor do we think it is appropriate or reasonable in any way that gang members may be visited by other gang members from their own gang grouping or from other gang groups. However, we note that the hearing responses, and not least those of the Institute for Human Rights, call for clarification of what should be the basis for the assessment of a visitor's gang affiliation. As I have said, we support the bill, even in the form that we have read the Ministry of Justice's response to the hearings, but I still believe that this will be an area in which we will constantly be asking questions to ensure that the law is applied precisely in the way it is intended, namely to define, so that we are not out in that there are people, that is, people in prisons who are prevented from having visits, just because the visitor lives in a certain residential area, or because perhaps several years ago, there was a report on this person or the like. So that is something we will be asking about in the conciliation circle, but we support the text and also take seriously the hearing answer and the attention point raised by the Institute for Human Rights. The second thing that we will also follow up in the conciliation circle is the extension of the use of punishment cells. This extends the possibility of using a criminal cell as disciplinary punishment for refusing alcohol testing. This may be sensible, but there has been a general increase in the use of criminal cells. This is a very severe disciplinary penalty which can also have unintended and inappropriate consequences for employees, because it is one of the things that can help raise the level of conflict in prisons. So that is something that we will follow up and we will look at whether there is a development in these unintended consequences, and that is why I think that this is a subject that we should constantly address in the conciliation circle. With those words, I would like to say again that we support the proposal, but that there are these two areas in particular in connection with the cut-off of visitors and the extended use of the penalty cell, which we will follow closely but loyally in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134155	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134205	Inmates in prison have over the years become harder molding than before and are also in prison for several years. We must be prepared to do so. The draft law contains both initiatives that delineate inmates with gang relations and initiatives which, at the same time, provide better opportunities for training. And then we need to take better care of our criminal services staff; they have a right to safety if they want to. Inmates have generally become more difficult to work with, and this requires correspondingly greater security for staff. SF supports the bill, which has a good balance between tightening, offerings to the inmates and security for the staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134258	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134308	Unfortunately, we have seen an increase in violence and threats to prison workers, and it is no secret that it has been one of the justice minister's main concerns that prison officers should be able to go safely to work. The government has therefore implemented a number of initiatives to combat gangs, and we have also focused on improving conditions for prison workers. It is therefore gratifying that, with the support of most of the parties in the Folketing, we can introduce a new framework for criminal justice which corresponds to the reality of the criminal justice system. With the bill here we cut off people with gang ties from getting visits from other gang members of course gang members should not be able to meet in a Danish prison. We also allow employees to check whether inmates are affected, just as we make it easier to confiscate items for smoking. These are measures to improve the working environment and the safety of prison staff. We also focus on rehabilitation, which is why we are continuing the AMU scheme so that inmates can receive labour market training while they are incarcerated. We must strike down hard on those who violate the law in Denmark, but we must also be ready to help when criminals want to start a deadline. All in all, it is a very good agreement that increases the security of prison staff. We owe them that, and that is why we support the Conservative People's Party's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134451	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134459	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. As is well known, the government has concluded a new multi-annual agreement for criminal justice, along with the majority of Parliament's parties. The agreement is intended to create the framework for a modern and strong criminal justice service, which will help Denmark to be a safe and secure society, and this bill will have to be included. implement the initiatives of the multiannual agreement requiring amendment of the law. In recent times, and especially last summer, we saw how a gang war can escalate and create insecurity for ordinary citizens in public spaces. It is essential that we have the best possible tools to take action against the gangs in order to avoid escalation of a conflict. Therefore, we propose to extend the rules on visitation cut-off for inmates with gang ties so that they can not be visited by persons associated with the same gang or persons associated with other gangs. In addition, we propose that criminal services should save part of the inmates' employment allowances as a compulsory savings, so that the inmates themselves can pay more for exit and return after expulsion. It is not reasonable for Denmark to have to pay the bill when exiled criminal foreigners have to go home after they have been in prison. It is already the case today that the expelled prisoners themselves have to pay for the journey home, but it is not always the case that they have money for it. With the bill, we are introducing compulsory savings so that they can pay more for themselves. The compulsory savings apply to all inmates and will in the long term also be used to cover any expenses that inmates will need for home transportation in Denmark. In addition, savings will also be used to cover the cost of the inmates at the time of exit. We also propose that the current trial system of AMU courses in prisons and detention houses be made permanent. AMU courses are an attractive training offer for inmates, and the evaluation by the Department of Criminal Welfare has shown that the trial scheme has been a success, and we therefore propose that the scheme should now be made permanent. We are also proposing to extend the scope for criminal justice to carry out alcohol control of prisoners. Alcohol in prisons poses security and order challenges. It goes without saying, and we will therefore improve the scope for control by criminal services, in other words, to strengthen the safety and security of staff who carry out an important social task every day. We propose, in concrete terms, to give the criminal services the opportunity to carry out exhale tests to test for alcohol. Finally, we propose extending the scope for criminal justice to confiscate items and money that an inmate has had in prison in violation of the rules. The change will include: In this context, I should like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. These initiatives must help to create the framework for a modern and strong criminal justice service capable of dealing with the challenges we face today. With these comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134804	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134808	Thank you. And thank you for the good speech and for the good bill. I think that this is something that can be welcomed together. When I take the floor, it is because the rapporteur of the Left had a very sensible point in his speech in relation to the tightening of access to visitors, and that is something that has been of great interest to us. And I would also venture to claim that we have our shares in the agreement that it has been included in, and has remained, the way it is. But we're not, you might say, in the finish line yet, if you ask us. We could imagine going further than just saying that it is gang members from the same grouping or from other groupings that the bill here guarantees it could also be family. Well, it could be that it had some effect on a pending gang conflict if you said to these gang members: Sorry, boys, you don't get a visit from the wives anymore. You might think so, perhaps, of the will to allow some conflict to continue. That is why I just want to hear the Minister: will the Minister make a note on the possibilities of further tightening the access to the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403134916	Yeah, I'd be happy to have a note like that drawn up. The challenge is, of course, • we also discussed it a little during the negotiations • how far we can go in relation to international conventions. Because whether there is a conflict or not, you could say: why can't you just cut off, and can't you push this further? However, it has been an assessment of how far we can go without conflicting with our international agreements or challenges. And that's why I'm thinking that it might make sense to make such a note, so you can see how close you can get to where the limit of this is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135002	If there is a follow-up question, please press the questioner. Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135006	Then there's the pressure, President. The minister says two good things. Firstly, he says that such a note will be drawn up. Moreover, it would seem that there is some sympathy for the proposal that we should extend this further, and we will take note of that. And, like the other positive thing, I note that the Minister came to refer to the international conventions as international challenges, and that is something I fully agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135035	Yes, you have to be careful what you say from this chair, but now challenges can be many things. But I believe that we must abide by the conventions of which we are a part; I would just like to emphasise one hundred per cent when I stand here. And that's what I mean when I'm not here. But I think it makes sense to make such a note about where the borders are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135057	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135100	Thank you. The Minister's last remark here reassured me a little, but perhaps the Minister could comment on the fact that the Institute for Human Rights actually believes that this bill is on the verge of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135119	Well, I've taken note of that, and I have to say that the Justice Department disagrees with that. We would not have made this proposal if we thought that we were crossing an edge here. That is also why there is a balance in what it is that you can cut off, when you can cut off, and how many you can cut off from visiting access. That is why I think it makes a great deal of sense perhaps just to make such a note about where those limits go, as close as you can now say it. Because the challenge has been that, as it is now, you cannot visit as part of the same gang, while you can visit if you come from other groups and other gangs who are not associated with that gang. We're gonna shut that down now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135201	Then I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135218	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135237	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal that we are now considering is important, not least for the sake of legal certainty, the sense of justice and trust in our legal system, as it contains a number of elements which aim to reduce the length of proceedings before our courts, in other words, from the date of notification of the case, until a judgment is handed down. At the same time, the draft law also provides for a reduction in the costs of the trial in cases where the defendant fails illegally. With the bill it will be among other things. It is proposed that the scope of the defendant's request for a particular defence lawyer should be reduced to take account of the length of the proceedings. This means that a defendant will no longer be free to choose a defense attorney who, popularly said, can only find time in the busy calendar in six months' time or after. It is only fair that it should be tightened up. Similarly, the draft law proposes that sanctions should be imposed if an accused person is illegally absent from court and that it should have an economic consequence, and this also seems to the Social Democrats to be quite reasonable. This proposal is, as I started by saying, not least important for the sake of the victims who have their affairs handled in our legal system. Too many people find that matters are dragging on, among other things. Because lawyers are elected who do not have time in the calendar, and so it takes too long. It creates insecurity and uncertainty, and it should not be underestimated that having to go through a trial can of course also have major psychological and physical consequences for those who are going through the system. Therefore, we owe it to the victims to ensure that we have as effective a time as possible in our courts and that it does not extend beyond several years, and this is what this bill helps to secure. So, not least for the sake of the victims, the Social Democratic Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135443	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135451	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that this is a fantastic bill we have here. It is an incredibly important legislative proposal that we are dealing with now, because it is crucial, when we come to these very serious crime cases, that there is of course pressure on boilers when it comes to dealing with these matters, and that is what the legislative proposal is really intended to do. I understand that there are a lot of people who are concerned when such a case is going on. There are witnesses who may experience a very, very great pressure that completely changes their everyday lives because you have seen something that is not very nice, because you may be afraid of what can happen when you say it, and therefore it is important that this is of course concluded quickly. There are victims who are left and who can be deeply, deeply offended and need to close a case so that we can move forward quickly if we can make any progress at all, but try to return to a life in a normal state, and that is why I would just like to commend the proposal, which I think is really sensible. It is intended that defence lawyers should have time in the calendar and that this should be a clear prerequisite for being allowed to be a lawyer in a case in the special priority cases of violence, rape and possession of weapons. A period of two weeks shall be fixed. We think that is very sensible. The possibility of a change of defence lawyer is tightened up so that it is ensured that it will not delay the case running. We also think it is very sensible that this should be tightened up. And then the defendant himself will be held liable for the costs of court hearings where the person concerned has not appeared, at least for the lawyer's fees. We also think it is entirely within the scope of the dial that there is, of course, this incentive to really show up and show respect for the law and the rule of law in which you live. Then, as one last thing, it is suggested that a judge, without the defendant being present, may decide that a mental examination must be initiated. We know that this is at least some of the things that in some parts of the country are a very great wait for, and it is of course also deeply unsatisfactory for the people who have to be mentally examined before they can move on both with their own cause but also in life. So it's kind of good for everyone to go through with it. So all in all, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135720	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403135733	Thank you. An analysis of the so-called criminal justice chain was carried out in 2016, i.e. how long a criminal case should actually last or maybe last.It might have been nicer to say that the court must judge and that we should not have as rigid and square provisions as we get here, but I am afraid that unfortunately this is necessary. In any case, it is now the case that, in the case of particularly serious cases, those involving violence, rape and the like, possession of weapons, etc. In other words, a defender who is busy in the calendar and who cannot meet these criteria cannot get the case. Of course, there can be reservations about this, but I have to say that there are approx. 6,500 lawyers in the Kingdom of Denmark, who have all passed a degree in law and who have also been in education for three years, so you do not get completely out of court. Finally, criminal proceedings are also so arranged that the defender forgets something, so it is the judge's duty to pay attention to it. So in this way we have to say that the proposal in any case restricts the defendant's ability to choose a certain busy lawyer. That is not the intention of the proposal, but we have a concern for both victims and witnesses etc. to get a process going, and so it could be the consequence of being equipped with a lawyer other than the one you want. Another part of the proposal is that it is becoming more difficult to change a lawyer, at least in situations where you have chosen the first lawyer yourself. And I just have to arrest the wording chosen by the first lawyer, because in practice it is often done by means of a constitutional inquiry that the police or the judge turn up on the list and find a lawyer, and he is so appointed for the person who is presented in the constitutional inquiry. The question is whether it is an elected lawyer, because then it will be reasonably impossible for the defendant to change a lawyer. So there is at least one issue there that we need to have, and I might as well add to how it is done in the practical world. Many lawyers find that they are assigned to the constitutional hearing because they have the lawyer's watch. The next day a message will come about I hope it's not just me who's exposed to it that they're fired and that you'd rather have a certain lawyer who's popular in these cases. It is therefore important to establish whether the fact that one has a lawyer and is thus appointed as a lawyer in the constitutional inquiry indicates that the defendant has chosen a lawyer and consequently the difficulty of having him changed later. I assume, however, that we will be able to clarify this during the committee procedure. At least it's important in this way that changing a lawyer isn't something that slows it down or increases it. Then there are other provisions in the bill. Among other things: the defendant shall replace expenses which are the result of unlawful absence from the hearing, and I repeat: unlawful absence. So it's not where you're sick. What are these expenses? It is, in fact, the defence cost of the hearing in question that did not materialise. By its very nature, we can support that too. It remains of the most important things here that you change the limit on the amount of appeal. From the fact that today it is 3,000 kroner. in fine, it will be impossible in future following the proposal to appeal against criminal proceedings where the fine is up to DKK 6,000. There I fully understand the rule. The limit has not been changed for 28 years, and we have long since changed it in civil cases, for example. But it is so important to make it clear that it also has a different consequence that you cannot appeal fines of this magnitude. If it is a person applying for citizenship, a fine of DKK 6,000 is imposed. 41⁄2 years further exclusion or waiting time, which is quite important and also more important than the 6,000 DKK. It could perhaps be in order to go in and examine these rules a little more closely, and I am thinking in this connection of the fact that it is most often the youngest judge who has delivered this judgment which contains the fine. I assume, however, that we will be able to clarify this during the committee procedure, including whether the Board of the Procedure will grant more right of appeal in these cases. Summa summarum: The Left can fully endorse the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140250	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140256	Thank you. It is important for a community of law that there is not too long between criminal offences and convictions for many reasons, both for the sake of the victims and for the sake of the offender and for the sake of society. We are in agreement with that. However, this is the right to the free choice of defender, which is one of the fundamental human rights that we in Denmark, together with the 46 other Member States of the Council of Europe, have committed ourselves to respecting in the European Convention on Human Rights. If citizens are to have confidence that the defendant will have a fair trial, it is very important that the defendant be given the opportunity to choose the defender he or she wants. In general, the quality of the work done by defence lawyers in Danish courtrooms is very high, but sometimes you come across examples of poorly prepared or careless defence lawyers. Here it is important that no one convicted of a crime can say afterwards that the sentence is due to his or her being forced to choose a defender other than the one whom the accused himself wishes. This bill sets very narrow time limits for how much the choice of a particular defender has to delay a trial so that the court does not force the defendant to choose another defender. In certain cases of particular priority, it cannot be accepted that there is a delay of more than two weeks before the court has to intervene and prevent the defendant from being defended by the lawyer concerned. Two weeks isn't much when you think about how full defense lawyers' calendars can be. I mentioned the European Convention on Human Rights a moment ago, and I agree that the Ministry of Justice does not believe that the draft law is contrary to Article 6, which, among other things, is unacceptable. ensure that the accused person is entitled to the assistance of a defender whom he or she has chosen. I understand that, as the comments on the draft law state, this is not an absolute right. Nevertheless, I am aware that the Institute for Human Rights writes in its hearing that it is not certain that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will accept that a lawyer will be taken by a case in some of the circumstances covered by this bill. When it comes to the right to a fair trial and the right to the free choice of defender, there is reason to tread very, very cautiously. In addition, the very narrow and detailed time limits for the number of weeks of delay that can be accepted in the legislative proposal are unnecessarily binding on the courts. Already today, the courts have the possibility, in certain cases, of refusing to appoint a particular lawyer if the appointment results in a considerable delay. Now this option is made mandatory. The bill also includes many other provisions, and one of them is that the defendant has to pay the bill for hearings which are cancelled because she or he does not appear. That sounds very reasonable and reasonable on paper, but I think it is worth remembering that many of the defendants or defendants who are absent from hearings are often socially vulnerable people who have many other problems to contend with and who are typically in an economic situation which means that the Treasury does not receive just a fraction of the legal costs they incur, no matter how much they try to recover the money. As mentioned, the bill has many parts and there are some of the elements that we are not so concerned about, but the right to the free choice of defender is for us a cornerstone of a rule of law and the rule of law, and that is why we in the Enhedslist cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140651	Thank you. I'm not going to go into the details of all the initiatives in this bill. Many of my fellow rapporteurs have done so well. Instead, I would like to make one more general observation. As we have heard, the draft law contains a number of measures, all of which aim to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings. There is no doubt that the duration of proceedings is an important element of legal certainty. It is not reasonable that neither the accused nor the victim should wait months or years for a case to be settled. We need to be able to do better than that. These are the efforts aimed at by the elements of the draft law here, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403140754	Thank you. We are going to deal here today with Bill No. 204, and with this bill, the government wants to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings. There is no doubt that the alternative can back up because it is problematic that in a number of cases everything is going on for far too long. What is then done in this bill is that the length of proceedings is in itself given a much, much greater weight than it is today and, on that basis, the possibilities for the defendant to choose a lawyer as a defender will be reduced. One of the initiatives to reduce the length of proceedings involves, inter alia, that the aim of the bill should not be able to choose a defender whose involvement would lead to a considerable delay in relation to the appointment of another defender. There are several of the initiatives that we find objectionable in this bill, but I have chosen to focus on a few points in the following. As I said, we support the intention. It is in the interests of all parties involved that the duration of proceedings is as short as possible and, in addition, as a society, we have an interest in dealing with and settling criminal proceedings quickly and effectively. However, and there is an important but, in order to reduce the length of proceedings, we must never compromise the legal certainty of the defendants, including the free choice of defence lawyers. There must, of course, be a balance between the consideration of a speedy procedure and the consideration of the defendants' free choice of defence lawyer, but I do not think that consideration of the defendants' choice of a defence lawyer should override everything else, but it is an important principle protected by the Convention, which we must uphold very carefully, and that is why I am very critical of this bill. Indeed, I note that the government in the draft law has unilaterally chosen to place the emphasis on shortening the duration of proceedings as the essential thing. There has been a massive criticism, it has to be said, of the draft law from several quarters, and one of the critics is among others. The lawyer's community, which criticises the initiative concerning the representation of defenders, and I quote from their reply to the hearing: "In the opinion of the Lawyers' Council, there are quite considerable legal concerns about obliging the courts to make a representation of a defender against the defendant's wishes solely with a view to achieving a slightly faster length of proceedings, especially where there is no full evidence that the defenders are responsible for the greatest problem. ▪ Another general criticism of the bill is that the draft law is based on a slender basis, because the background to the bill is an analysis of the criminal proceedings chain, i.e. the time of notification for possible serving commenced. Apart from a brief meeting with the National Association of Defence Attorneys, the legal profession as such has not been involved in the analysis work, and the focus of the analysis work has been on the authorities, namely the court, the police, the prosecutors and the criminal services, but, in other words, completely bypassing the defence lawyers, which means that this far-reaching legislative initiative, which is targeted at defence lawyers, has not been turned around with the legal profession widely, and I think it is critical that not all the stakeholders involved in this area have been involved when the government intervenes with this kind of intervention. It should also be borne in mind that the analysis shows that the proposed tightening-up in the frame work process in relation to the agendas of defence lawyers has only a saving potential of 1.4 days in time, and all in all it means that the alternative cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141150	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left. The rapporteur does not have to run; we will make it enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141202	Thank you so much. I'm gonna be careful running 'cause I did it once, and I was almost gonna drop around up here, so the Secretary of Defense sat there and got very worried. So I won't do that again. As far as I remember, it was Mr. Naser Khader, who grabbed Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen when she passed out at the time. Tom Behnke. So it's an opportunity to be a real hero if someone faints up here and then it has to be the Minister of Justice who's running to the nearest one. Now it's gonna be serious. This is a matter of which I have a great deal of doubt to be quite honest, because there is no doubt that everyone has an interest in the fact that as little time as possible passes from a criminal act to a conviction. It is in the interests of the victim, it is in the interests of society and, of course, it is also in the interests of the criminal. But it's just an equation with a lot of variables, that is, from a criminal act being carried out to a judgment, there's a lot more going on than what's going on at the court. After all, there is also a long process in the police which is about collecting evidence and formulating an indictment which then goes to the prosecutor. That part of the equation and process, that is, before the case ends in a formal indictment, goes from charge to charge... the time flow, so to speak, is not at all affected by the bill. That is why I think that there is too much one-sided focus on the part that concerns the courts and defence lawyers. One can tell oneself that it is thought-provoking when it is so today that it is only after 11⁄2 years that the prosecutor, if a person is charged, has an obligation to inform the accused of what is up and down in the case. So that we have one, what can one say, the time limit of 11⁄2 years. However, when the indictment is available and has been handed over to the court, we operate with a time limit of 14 days, because that is what you are doing in this proposal. The cases referred to, as I recall, relate, among other things, to: As a result, we must be able to hold a main debate within 14 days, in other words within 14 days when we have to find both a defender and the defender must be able to prepare for the main debate. I think that is quite wrong in that the police and the prosecution can spend one and a half years leading up to the main debate to prepare the case. I think that is a bias. This is a bias which then means that there is no focus at all on a large part of the explanation that there is so much time between a criminal act and a conviction. But it is also a distortion which is actually unfair in relation to the preparation of the case, because, as the prosecutor and the police, you can sit and work for up to 11⁄2 years, while as a defender you have only perhaps a week to prepare. Unfortunately, we believe this to be a risk of compromising on legal certainty. That is why I cannot tell you today whether we are going to vote in favour or against. We are thus in favour of looking at this area and of course also looking at the part of the case that is in the courtroom involving the judge and the defence lawyer, but we also think that this should be seen in the context of initiatives dealing with the previous part involving the police and the prosecution. This one-sided focus on the courtroom and the defense attorney is not fair. That is why we are going to put some committee questions and possibly work on an amendment that could soften it up a little bit, perhaps working on a different time limit than the 14 days. On the other hand, we also fully agree that it is unreasonable and inappropriate for a case to be extended by many months, because one is waiting for a particular defence lawyer who is concerned with other matters. That is not fair or appropriate, and we do not want to protect that either. Conversely, we think that the 14-day time limit is equal. So we will go to committee and perhaps also work on some amendments that can soften this up a bit. If we succeed, we may be voting in favour because we are in favour of looking at this. And although we would also, of course, like to look at the previous part involving the police and the prosecution, we would also like to look at the part that is going on in the courtroom involving the defence lawyers, but it should be fair and balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141702	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141709	We obviously have a problem with the length of proceedings before the courts. This presents a number of challenges for legal certainty. Who remembers what and how much? Witnesses go to doubt. Victims often feel that they are being reduced to a piece in an incalculable system. Too many victims feel forgotten and overlooked and need to move on and leave the matter behind. The purpose of the draft law is entirely in agreement with the SF. We need to bring down the processing times in criminal proceedings. There are also elements in the bill that we can support. We only think it is fair if the defendant himself is on the bill if he chooses not to appear before the trial. However, when the SF cannot support the bill, it is due to restricting the possibility of a fair trial by weakening the defendant's ability to obtain a proper defence. We do not think it is fair to restrict the right to choose a lawyer for ourselves, nor do we think it is reasonable to set the limit of EUR 6 000. in appeal cases, not at all now in view of the major consequences it can have for obtaining citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141839	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403141846	It is absolutely fundamental in a well-functioning legal society that processing time is not too long. The longer time between notification and possible punishment, the more difficult it becomes for witnesses to remember correctly and for evidence to be treated. Equally serious is the fact that there will often be a victim who will have to wait a long time for clarification. Of course, we must not compromise on legal certainty either, and we must take account of the defendants. The Minister of Justice has carried out an analysis of the work process from notification to conviction in order to identify workflows that can be improved. This has resulted in a number of proposals for amendments to the Code of Procedure which we are discussing today. Particular attention is paid to the process of appointing a defence lawyer. This part of the legal process often causes delays. For example, it may be a defense attorney who has a far too busy calendar. It may also be because the defendants want to change lawyers along the way, which also delays cases unnecessarily. We have seen, for example, how several gang members want the same defense attorney. But it should not be a self-table when the public pays, nor should it be possible for the accused to delay cases deliberately by changing defence lawyers. The bill also makes it clear that it is the defendants' responsibility to appear in court. That is why the defendant must now also pay the additional costs resulting from a postponement in which the defendant did not wish to appear. It is a matter for us that the judicial system in Denmark works optimally. We must take account of the people who are wronged in a trial. That is why, of course, we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142054	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur and then I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142100	Thank you for the largely positive reception the proposal receives here today. The aim is to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings. I believe that we can all agree that the duration of proceedings in criminal proceedings must not be unduly long. It is important for the rule of law in general, and for both the victim and the victim, that each criminal case is dealt with properly, efficiently and with the necessary speed. In December 2016, the Ministry of Justice launched an analysis of the criminal proceedings chain, i.e. the process from the notification to the police of an offence up to any punishment, in order to map the procedures and identify where the main delays may occur. That work has resulted in a number of initiatives, and it is the initiatives that require legislation that form the basis of the legislative proposal that we are now dealing with first. The draft law contains a number of initiatives, including: in relation to defence lawyers and the treatment of criminal proceedings by the courts, which will contribute in various ways to reducing the overall duration of proceedings in criminal proceedings. In relation to defence lawyers, we propose, among other things: to limit the scope of the defendant's request for a particular lawyer to defend himself, so that the length of proceedings is given considerably more weight than is currently the case. This means that the defendant must not be able to choose a defender whose involvement would lead to a certain delay in the appointment of another defender. In particular, in the context of the judicial proceedings for criminal proceedings, it is proposed that the main proceedings of the court in criminal proceedings should be conducted as soon as possible after the prosecution's submission of the indictment to the court by digital communication. It is also proposed that the defendant should immediately pay costs if the defendant is absent from a hearing and the proceedings are therefore suspended. In practice, this means that the court can immediately order the defendant to pay the lawyer's fees for the hearing in question. Furthermore, it is proposed that the court without the presence of the defendant should be able to decide that the accused should be subjected to mental examination. That is the case where, despite a lawful summons and without any legal delay, the defendant is absent from the hearing. The bill also proposes to increase the applicable limit of DKK 3,000. for the defendant's appeal against a court order in criminal proceedings, so that in future it will be DKK 6,000. The proposal is due to the fact that the limit has not been changed since 1990 when it was set at DKr 3 000. Finally, it is proposed that the accused, who in the immediate context of an offence receive an indication of the fine, should generally be able to adopt the fine without delay. However, the National Police will have to develop a new administrative solution before this option can be used. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may be raised during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142400	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142404	I would like to know whether the Minister for Justice will be helpful in uncovering the part that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say the investigation part. How long does it actually take from a charge to an indictment? For it is also part of the equation, in relation to how long it takes, from the criminal act to the judgment falls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142427	Yeah, I'd like that. So, as I said in my speech, in December 2016, we launched an analysis of the entire criminal investigation chain, that is, from notification to the police and to possible punishment. The police are developing an entirely new operational management system in order to optimise it in the target and performance plans. Something needs to be done to reduce the length of proceedings for police, prosecutors and criminal services, because I fully agree that this proposal on defence lawyers does not only do it; we need to look at the whole chain of criminal proceedings. However, I would very much like to answer some written questions which can give a picture of how this is being dealt with and how we can, in general, shorten the time. Because, of course, it's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142513	I'm really happy about that, and I'd like to sign for that. I hope that I have understood correctly, i.e. that it is only after a year and a half in which a charge has been held that has not led to an indictment that the prosecution has a duty to inform you. I just want to ask what the Minister of Justice thinks about a year and a half in relation to 14 days. What does the Minister of Justice think about the two figures against each other? Is it reasonable to give only 14 days to the defendant, whereas the police and prosecutors have a year and a half?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142544	We shall be happy to explain this in writing afterwards. I just want to say, compared to 14 days, that it is a question of not delaying further in relation to changing by approx. 2 weeks. As such, you have more than two weeks for the case itself. Perhaps it makes sense, however, that we should make this absolutely clear during the committee procedure, so that there is no doubt. Because there should be no doubt about exactly how much time you have to deal with the various cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142610	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142623	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142645	Thank you for welcoming me to the platform. The legislative proposal we are now considering is a legislative proposal which should make it easier to use and also deal with television surveillance when it comes to preventing and combating crime. There is no doubt that television surveillance is of a security-building nature. It has it both for preventive purposes when it comes to preventing crime, and it has it when it comes to solving crime, because then this is a strong helping hand, not least to the police in their work. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. The draft law gives traders better opportunities for, among other things: sharing surveillance photos of people either committing crime or committing crime. It also gives municipalities better opportunities to use television surveillance to promote the security of citizens in certain areas. There is no doubt, as I said, that television surveillance has a strong preventive character when it comes to helping prevent crime. We can see that from the statistics. And, as I said, it is also very beneficial for police investigations when it comes to solving crimes committed. On the other hand, there is no doubt that with the new technology and the way it develops, there are also insurmountable opportunities for us all to be watched in the next 24 hours. That's why, of course, you have to pay attention to the balances in this. Of course, it is also a question of ensuring that, and we are pleased that the bill also goes along with, aggravated circumstances about how long these surveillance images can then be stored, and here is the proposal so that they can only be stored for 30 days. It supports the Social Democracy, and the Social Democracy therefore also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142843	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403142850	Thank you. The proposal here, which deals with video surveillance, has, as it were, two aims. The first is that the Personal Data Act should be replaced by the Data Protection Act and that the rules relating to video surveillance or television surveillance in the Personal Data Act should be extended to a very large extent by the legislative proposal in this respect. The second part aims to ensure that the operators who use cameras to protect their goods can have better opportunities to share these pictures between themselves, and we think that is quite fine. So in reality it's all about continuing what is going on, and about the government's innovation in this area, which is that you can share these pictures between you. I am a very strong supporter of the fact that we use video surveillance much more in public space, that we use it much more preventively, that we have it in pedestrian streets, in places and other vulnerable places, traffic hubs, and that we are doing much more to protect our peaceful society at all. And there I think video surveillance is a completely central part of the police's work. Therefore, I would also like to address some of the suggestions that we in the Danish People's Party have on how we can make this video surveillance stronger. Firstly, there is the issue of municipal video surveillance financed by the Minister for Justice, I believe, several times in this Chamber. We would like the municipalities to have an opportunity to pay for surveillance, but also to hang video surveillance in public with the blessing and majority of a city council. That would be excellent, and we know that KL has sent a report to the Minister for Justice on precisely the options that lie there. So it has been a very long time in this discussion where we have not heard anything about what the municipalities have actually submitted to the Ministry by wishes. So, of course, we're curious to hear what the Minister of Justice says about it at some point, probably when he comes up here on the platform. Then there is the question of the police sharing of video images on the new platform, which was actually decided by the Danish Parliament on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled and adopted by the Danish People's Party, among others. with social democratic support. We are also interested in evaluating at some point how successful that scheme has been, the extent to which the police have taken advantage of it. Then there's the whole discussion about license plate scans, i.e. if we're gonna hang up more of these scanners. Now they are hanging at the border crossings, and we are pleased about that, but we want them to be even more places; for example, it could be. be on police cars or permanently mounted on highway sections or at other traffic hubs where it might be interesting for the police to follow. Then there is the last thing when we talk about video surveillance, and those are erasing deadlines. I find it deeply problematic that we have such rigid erase deadlines as we have today. In fact, we would like to multiply the possibility that there is to store these pictures. This can be very important for law enforcement when very serious cases of crime are to be solved. So we would really like to see a more detailed explanation of why the government has decided on this, as has been done. This is one of the things we want to deepen in the course of the work on this proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But as a starting point, there are some fine tactics in it, because you carry on with what you have, which is certainly inadequate, but after all is being continued, while at the same time you bring in your own innovation in the form of this sharing of images. So that is fair, but I think there are many good proposals that can be listened to if you are the Minister of Justice in this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143239	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143245	Thank you. With the proposal we are discussing today, it will be possible for a store to pass pictures of thieves and trick thieves to other shops. It has long been quite incomprehensible to the shops that this has not been possible to a greater extent. But, of course, there are considerations, especially for the innocent people, who may be suspected and shared in a greater public with regard to films, etc. But now there seems to be a proposal on the table that satisfies at least some of the wishes of the shopkeeper and at the same time also curbs what I was talking about before, namely the quite wrong publication, to use that expression now. The release must take place in a closed system, which can only be accessed by a limited number of authorised persons.I understand that this is where the Data Protection Agency is in the picture; it must not be done on the Internet, it must not be posted on the web. The relationship must not be trivial, it must be reported to the police on the same day and, finally, it must be expected that those who are suspected will commit similar thefts in other shops. With these comments, there are the necessary precautions, and I hope that the system will then also be used as intended. I would like to make just one comment on something that the Minister of Justice may perhaps be able to elaborate on today or later, and that is when we come into the terms of the proposal on fines, that is what is described on page 19 of the comments. It says that a fine, implied to the store owner, in order not to comply with these rules, could, for example, be imposed. In order not to delete after 30 days, the current level of fines is significantly increased under the Personal Data Act, just as the penalty is increased from 4 to 6 months. But it's this personal data law thing that kind of makes it run cold down my back, because if anyone has me and my colleague Eva Kjer Hansen worn the carpet thinly over in the Ministry of Business to get more detailed guidance on the Personal Data Act here, all sorts of rumors about how horrible it can be for companies that do not comply with that law and how much fines can be expected. And if our proposal now refers to the Personal Data Act and even says that we are now raising the level of fines, we must at least now or during the committee procedure have to clarify what level we actually have and what level we expect to have. In general, however, it is an excellent proposal which the Left supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143545	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143550	Thank you. There are surveillance cameras in Denmark, both in shops and in public spaces. Recordings from surveillance cameras can be an excellent tool for solving crimes, and they can, by their mere presence, hold, for example: shoplifters from committing theft, at least in the store where the camera is sitting. However, the fact that we, as citizens, are admitted where we go and stand is also a major interference in privacy. According to current law, shopkeepers cannot share footage from surveillance cameras with each other if they believe that the footage shows a shoplifter. If they want to communicate with other shopkeepers about the suspects, they must confine themselves to giving descriptions and sharing experience with regard to the methods of the suspects. The police, on the other hand, can, of course, safely leave the recordings to the law in force. With the police, the footage will be in safe hands, and in exceptional cases the police may choose to share the recordings with others, including the public. And in the Enhedslisten we are in fact most confident that it is still in this way that it is a police task, that is that it is up to the police to make a police assessment of the recordings and of the grounds of suspicion. Several organisations have critical comments on the bill in their hearing response, and we are fully in line with Danske Lawyers when they write that the proposal does not sufficiently ensure that images of innocent persons are not processed and shared when private people are often placed within a very broad framework of discretion, according to the proposal, to assess whether the conditions for transmitting recordings are met. In the Enhedslisten we fully share the concerns of among others. Danish Lawyers and IT Policy Association. We believe that it should continue to be the police who receive and process sound and image recordings and, possibly in certain cases, choose to share the recordings with others or to publish them. Against this background, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143805	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. It was timed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143819	Thank you for that, because it was timed. There have been a number of cases in the media over the past few years, where shopkeepers in an attempt to warn other traders against, for example. robbers or burglars have shared photos from their own video surveillance. As the rules are today, they are illegal, and a number of cases have also been raised in this regard. I think we can quickly agree that it seems strange that such actions should be punished. It affects the general sense of justice when you experience the actual victims being punished while the perpetrator may be free. On the other hand, it is also clear that people should not be allowed to share free passages of surveillance images. We risk hanging innocent people in public. Therefore, the proposed scheme, in which these recordings can be shared in a closed network and under special conditions, is very sensible. It weighs down the need to catch criminals on the one hand and, on the other hand, it does not open up a wave of de facto murders of justice. In those words, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143931	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403143944	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are discussing today, Bill No. L 205, is the draft law amending the law on television surveillance and the law on the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities. And in relation to two of the parts of the bill, it is called for a change to them, namely that the government wishes to continue the current rules in Chapter 6a of the Personal Data Act in the context of television surveillance on the basis of the proposal for a data protection law that is running through the system here; and that the government wants to continue an authorisation in the Personal Data Act for the minister concerned to lay down detailed rules for the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities in specific cases. It is no secret that we are highly critical of the proposal for a data protection law that is being passed through the Folketing, and therefore we are also critical of the elements that lie here, especially because we do not yet have a final data protection law on which we have agreed here in the Folketing. And it is particularly important to give the Minister authority to make changes to the processing of personal data, rather than to have Parliament adopt it by law. So what I really want to focus on in this bill is the increased access for traders to pass on images of perpetrators recorded with television surveillance with each other. The proposal for a law states that operators must meet certain conditions before they can share pictures from television surveillance, and that, it may be said, aims at being a professional assessment which is imposed on these operators. One of the conditions is, for example, that there are concrete reasons to believe that the alleged perpetrator or the suspected perpetrator admitted to television surveillance will commit enrichment crimes against the circle of traders to whom the recordings are transmitted. Some of the other conditions also imply a certain amount of discretion. It is my view, and that of several of the parties to the hearing, that the assessments that the operator must make prior to the transmission of pictures from television surveillance match police professional assessments, that is to say all that, whether you believe that the person who has now been recorded on television will go out and commit criminal acts against those to whom these pictures are sent. I find it very worrying that we leave it to private operators to make such a discretionary assessment and to have such an intrusive instrument in hand without legal guarantees for data subjects. Like the IT Politics Association, we therefore recommend that traders submit their material to the police, who then make the discretionary assessment that the bill proposes if we are to support this scheme. For the police are precisely trained to make such a professional and discretionary assessment. So the trader is not. We would say that sending it to the police guarantees the security of the data subject, while at the same time the police have access to images from all reported shoplifting and robbery in the relevant geographical area, which in fact makes them better able to carry out the assessments. So in those words, the alternative cannot back this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144319	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144329	I appreciate my place in the Chamber, but it is still a little too far back, so it could be that one should go a little more determinedly to move up the party to get a little closer not to power, but to the platform. Then you don't have to come up here out of breath every time. After all, this draft law is essentially a continuation of the existing rules on television surveillance, not new rules, but the existing ones. Then, of course, we also have all sorts of reservations about the data protection bill which is currently under discussion in the Danish Parliament. However, as we read this proposal, it is a question of continuing certain rules on television surveillance and the transmission of information in this regard, and we support those rules, and we can also support them in continuing, even though we are also critical of the new data protection law proposal in general. What is new in this proposal is that traders can share recordings or pictures with each other by possible perpetrators. It certainly contains some dilemmas, for example. the question of whether some innocent people can be affected by such an action and whether there are the necessary legal guarantees. There we are aware that the Institute for Human Rights has given a hearing answer in which they believe that the proposal is sufficiently limited and contains the necessary safeguards. For us this has been quite crucial to our position. Because, in this way, the Institute considers that this is not an unproportional intervention in human rights and the protection of privacy, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144523	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144531	I understand the frustration of, for example, Mr President. shopkeepers who have surveillance photos and where the police still have priority not to show up. Then it would be obvious to give the opportunity to share the footage or photos with other potential victims of theft. But frustration is not to be answered in any other way than in the first place by breathing deep into the stomach. As the answer is in the draft law, we do not see that it should be among other things. to give even more powers to the Minister. Nor can the SF support a legislative proposal that could lead to increased vigilantes. When it says about the bill: The aim of the bill is therefore also to allow traders, according to certain conditions, to share pictures and sound recordings from television surveillance with other operators, yes, then we think it is up to them to give in to take the law into their own hands. SF thinks we should leave it to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144651	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144656	It must be safe and safe to be self-employed in Denmark. Robberies, burglary and shoplifting continue to be a problem. Shoplifting alone leads to billions of losses for the retail trade. That is why we must take action and provide traders with the best possible tools to secure their shops, their employees and their values. Many make very successful use of video surveillance to secure their stores. The video footage can be used by the police in an investigation, but the cameras also have an independent, deterrent effect. Already today companies and shops share pictures of travelling thieves so that you can take the necessary precautions. But it is not allowed to share the video recording itself. This is a significant limitation of video surveillance potential. With the bill, we allow traders to share their video footage so that they can cooperate in warning each other so that they can each secure their stores against burglary, robbery and theft. Theft is a serious violation of private property and a robbery can have major personal consequences for those involved. We must ensure the safety of the Danes. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144827	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403144834	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the predominantly positive reception of the draft law. In the autumn I launched the police meeting with the citizens. One of the initiatives was a proposal that operators should have the opportunity to share surveillance images with each other. It has been a very great wish from the business world. This is now seen as one of two elements of the draft law amending inter alia: The law on television surveillance that we are discussing today. Firstly, the draft law amends the rules on the processing of personal data in the context of television surveillance. The business community has expressed the wish that operators should have the opportunity to share images from television surveillance of suspected perpetrators, for example. Travelling thieves, in order to warn one another about these people and thus prevent crime. In accordance with the rules in force, operators do not have such an option. The Ministry of Justice has therefore prepared a bill in close dialogue with Danish Occupation to meet the wishes of the business community. The draft law provides for the possibility for operators to share television surveillance footage with each other for crime prevention purposes. Such a division is proposed to be possible under a number of conditions. For example: the division of recordings between economic operators shall be carried out in a closed system within an operator's own organisation or business organisation. Sharing should therefore not be done on the Internet, including closed groups on Facebook or other social networks. The division of recordings between different economic operators within a professional organisation shall be subject to the permission of the Data Protection Agency. Furthermore, it is a condition that the alleged perpetrator has committed or attempted to commit a non-trivial crime of enrichment against a trader. For example, it will. be theft for a not insignificant amount, debit card fraud or robbery. On the other hand, it will not be a simple shoplifting of a few bags of candy. Furthermore, it is a condition that the suspected perpetrator is reported to the police for the crime and that there are concrete reasons to believe that the alleged perpetrator will commit new equal crime against traders. Secondly, the bill contains a proposal to extend the current rules of the Personal Data Act. These are rules for the processing of personal data in the context of television surveillance. Furthermore, this is an authorisation for the minister concerned to lay down, in specific cases, rules for the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145112	There is one brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145119	Thank you. As the Minister of Justice knows, my colleague Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I asked questions to the Minister for Justice about the possibility for municipalities to monitor. When we last had the Minister for Justice at Question Time, I think the Minister for Justice said that there was an investigation under way concerning the KL, also in relation to the need for surveillance, and that the investigation would be ready in February. That is why I want to hear what the study has done in relation to the possibility for municipalities to set up camera monitoring in the nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145153	I think that this is a very important discussion, and I have also expressed it. I just have to say that it's not in any way part of this bill. This should not prevent me from saying that I know that the study has come in, but I personally do not yet know the results of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145209	I ask because we have approached the Minister for Justice on several occasions about that particular investigation. And I would ask the Minister for Justice, if that study is available, as I understand it does, to send it over so that we can have an insight into what the study has come up with and what is of the wishes of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145231	Understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145234	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145237	Thank you. The proposal provides for a penalty for the shopkeeper who does not comply, for example, does not delete after 30 days or otherwise, as I said, does not comply with the provision here on the conditions under which photos can be recorded and further processed. The penalty clause is mentioned in the comments on page 19, and I can state that it says that the level of fines is significantly increased in relation to the current level of fines after the Personal Data Act. Is the Minister aware of the level today and is the Minister aware of how high we will get up if necessary? Just as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the reference to the Personal Data Act makes many people very, very nervous, because to some extent we do not really have any guidance yet to tell about the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145337	I understand that you stay because what does that mean? After all, we are told that very, very high amounts can be made available. In other words, today, a fine of about DKK 5 000 is usually imposed when television surveillance images are wrongly transmitted, and that is a significant increase in relation to it. I cannot quantify that here today, but it will of course be a reflection. It will of course also be a forward-looking consideration whether it is a first case and what the conditions are for it and so on. It is important in relation to the 5,000 kroner, but it is perhaps also very relevant to say here today that the current level is 5,000 kroner, so it is significant in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145416	We thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145428	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403145444	Thank you. The motion for a resolution today deals with the information which heirs receive about the fees of a resident who treats a estate. More specifically, the proposal is for the government to amend the death settlement law so that the receiver is obliged to make a monthly hourly account for the heirs, i.e.: an account showing the administrator's hourly price and time spent. According to the motion for a resolution, the aim is, in particular, to ensure that the heirs can keep up with the amount of the fees paid to the administrator. Let me begin by saying that the government, on a long stretch, can agree with the ideas behind this resolution. However, if we cannot support it, it is because, among other things, we do not believe that we have the knowledge base now and here to change the rules in the way proposed in the proposal, and I will come back with an explanation on that later. In any case, I would like to thank you for a resolution which is well written and very precise, but which also deals with a somewhat technical area. I hope that the authors of the motion will agree with me on this. Over the last year I have had the opportunity to give a number of written answers to the Legal Affairs Committee on this area of regulation. These are some of the answers that are also shown in the list of material for the motion for a resolution. And as can be seen from those answers, the death settlement law contains a number of rules on, for example, different treatment methods for a estate where the treatment by the receiver is one way. In this context, there are rules on the appointment and removal of a receiver. There are rules on the duties of the administrator and the supervision of the administrator by the law of change. Then there are also rules on what the motion for a resolution is about, namely the fees paid to the administrator, including rules for the administrator to inform them at the first meeting with the heirs of how the fee is calculated and, if possible, the expected amount of the fee. The motion for a resolution also refers to this. In this context, it is important to note that the rules on information for heirs concerning the estate manager's office actually also cover ongoing information if there is reason to do so. The rules we are talking about here were introduced in the revision of the Death Bosomage Act in 2011, and this is clear, among other things. of the bill that the administrator will be obliged to adjust the price information on an ongoing basis, especially if the settlement process becomes more expensive than initially expected. Finally, in addition to rules on information for heirs about the fee, there are also rules on the right of heirs to complain about the fee, as well as rules on the right to change the calculation of the manager's fee on their own initiative. On the whole, the law on the settlement of death contains a number of different rules on the treatment of estates by the estate manager, and I hope that the written contributions on the rules I have previously submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs will answer most of the questions, but if there are any questions that need to be clarified, we will, of course, be available to assist in the committee's proceedings with written answers so that we can be absolutely strict on the legal aspects of this technical area. It was a bit about the rules that they look like today. In relation to the policy of this motion for a resolution, as I read it, basically stems from the desire that the manager's salary be reasonable and that heirs be given the information they need about the fees they need. I share that wish without reservation. As I have told the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I have just launched a new initiative last year, which is that the Court of Justice should collect statistics, among other things. staff manager's training and complaints about the instructors. And, as I have also informed the Committee on Legal Affairs, I intend to follow up after an appropriate period when sufficient data has been collected. The fact that the government cannot support the resolution here today is due, among other things, to the fact that the data collection that has been set in motion has only been running for a relatively short time. The Court of Justice has just informed before the Easter holidays that the first figures for the second half of 2017 are about to be ready. The agency is thus getting an overview of the figures in cooperation with external IT consultants. But it is also just a six-month figure, and I believe that data collection should run longer than that before we have a basis for drawing conclusions. That view is shared by the Court of Justice. In addition, it is part of history that the area is already quite well regulated and, as I mentioned earlier, it is also true to provide heirs with information about the manager's fee. In relation to the very specific proposal for a mandatory monthly hourly report, I may be concerned whether it would not be to create square and heavy rules, because the extra task for the administrator of the estate to make a mandatory accounting also takes time from dealing with the estate of death, and hence also time to increase the cost of the estate of death. In other words, there could be a risk that square rules could make the settlement of death more expensive and slower to the detriment of heirs. I should also like to mention that we are looking at the supervision of lawyers, and that would of course also have an impact on administrators who had to step aside. Of course, all this does not change the fact that the rules must also work in practice and that they must provide a good framework for the manager's remuneration to be reasonable. There are the proposers and I fully agree, although the government cannot agree to this specific proposal. As I said before, this is a theme to which I will return when we have a little more statistics from the Court of Justice on the fees and fees charges. In my opinion, this will provide a better basis for looking at whether there is a need to adjust this set of rules. However, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150042	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150046	Thank you for the Minister's speech. The reason we have tabled this resolution is, of course, that we have been contacted by a lot of heirs. I think the Minister for Justice is also aware of this, because I am also aware that many people have approached the Minister for Justice about the challenge that exists, and that is precisely in relation to high fees. Therefore, I would like to hear what the Minister of Justice will do in order for the shift courts to be held responsible, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Unfortunately, there have been examples that the heirs have come out with DKK 70,000. for example, and the lawyer has then received more than 0.5 million. kr. as the manager of the estate. So I would like the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150142	I also have enquiries in this area, and that is why we have started that investigation. I just think that we should have the right basis to get it started. We need proper material to look at and use as a basis for making changes in an already well-regulated area. But that is also why, as I said in my speech, we are looking at the entire supervision, including the supervision of lawyers. And it's clear that this is gonna be part of it, too. So I totally recognise to look at it, we just need to have enough material to do it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150214	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150216	It's a good thing that there's going to be an in-depth investigation into this whole area, and we'd really like to take a look at it, too, in relation to what the role of shift courses is in this. And with regard to the supervision of the lawyers, I would like the Minister to answer when the Ministry of Justice expects this work to be completed. It is a large area and, of course, there are several issues that can be taken into account in such a work. There will be a call at a time for discussions on this area, for example. The Danish People's Party will be called for any negotiations to change this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150300	Yes, there is. Discussions will be convened after we have looked at the entire work of the entire supervision of lawyers. That is one of the things, and then, of course, there will be discussions when we have some concrete figures. We need more statistics before we can decide on it. And then, of course, it will be perfectly natural, when we have the figures collected, that we sit down and discuss whether there is a basis for doing something and, if so, what. I shall look forward to discussing this further with the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150328	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. And then we start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150344	Thank you for that, President. After all, the Minister of Justice has already explained the proposal in a very thorough manner, so I do not need to do so. I would say that when it comes to administrators and the questions of sa teacher, hour accounts and other matters, we share exactly as the Minister of Justice does far along the way the views contained in the proposal. Conversely, we also think that the Minister for Justice has a point in that, if we are to look at this, we need to have the basis properly in place. That is why I can say from the outset that we cannot support the proposal as it stands here and now. But I also hope that the Minister for Justice understands what we are saying, so that once the data base is in place, we sit down and look at this. Because there is a lack of transparency in this area and there is a need for us to have clear guidelines for it. In other contexts, we have also had a focus on sa teacher. This applies, for example, to the defense attorneys' fees, where the Minister of Justice also gave in to pressure to carry out an investigation into it. And I think that when you listen to the Minister for Justice, you can hear that the same thing is approaching to be the case here. So we cannot support the proposal, but we look forward to the Minister of Justice taking the initiative to discuss this problem. And we would very much like to hear from the Minister for Justice when he imagines that the data base can be in place so that we can have a proper discussion of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150519	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150522	Thank you. One doesn't rule out the other. This is about bosses, among other things. must provide an hourly statement every month so that heirs can keep track of what it looks like. So one doesn't rule out the other, because you can support this proposal, while at the same time there's a data collection going on next door. So I'm a little puzzled that S can't support it. After all, this is about the heirs getting a better overview of how their case is running, also in relation to the fees and how many hours have been spent on the case itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150602	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150603	As I said, the intentions far along the way are perfectly reasonable, so let us take them with us when we see what the Minister of Justice brings. And as I have said, I understand, broadly in the Danish Parliament, at least in the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, a call for the Minister of Justice to sort out what can be rubbed to get these data in place, so that we can discuss this together. I think that's the right way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150625	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150627	So when does S expect this data base to be in place, so when should the data be collected? Is there a time perspective? Because, as I said earlier in my question to S, this is about transparency towards the heirs. It can easily run on two tracks. Secondly, I am sure that the rapporteur is also aware of the problem here, even as the rapporteur himself has been the Minister of Justice at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150655	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150656	I think that the question that is being asked to me about when I expect it to be in place, I will leave it to the Minister for Justice, lectured on my experience, but I am also quite sure that he will respond to the consensus between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that this should be done as soon as possible so that we can have a comprehensive discussion of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150715	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403150723	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today has to do with the estates that are being dealt with by a receiver. A receiver is a lawyer appointed by the law of change. This happens most often in cases where there is disagreement between the heirs or where there are minor heirs. There are also other cases, but disagreement is probably the main reason why a estate is treated like a resident. If you agree, you can also change your private life after section 25 of the Death Shift Act. The background to the proposal here is, of course, seen in some quite, quite violent sa teacher in estates of death. I must hurry to say that I am not aware of the details of the work in question in the estates concerned, but it is quite clear that no fee should be charged for more than work has been carried out. I believe that one of the basic problems here is that at least most Danes do not apply for treatment of a estate. You go to the local lawyer or to the family lawyer who then starts the estate. It is, at any rate, very rare for me to look for different offers of this kind. But it is true, as stated in the otherwise well-documented proposal, that the paradox is that after the abolition of the tariff fees which the lawyer may charge in 1997, you could look up and see 'yes', you might think that there was a certain amount of competition, but that is exactly what has not happened. The competition has certainly gone up. After all, these are wild increases, which court assessment Sorth documents very well in his dissertation on the development of the deathboss teacher. These are sharp increases after the abolition of tariff fees. So it must necessarily give food for thought, and that is what has happened with the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I can only respect that. The 1997 Death Shift Act is, in fact, an excellent law because it essentially means that one is not locked by rigid rules, that one can reconcile meetings with heirs and the like, according to how much disagreement there is. Maybe it can be fixed per year. phone, maybe per. e-mail, and so with many other arrangements. To that extent there is nothing wrong with the law, but this also concerns the pricing. In this connection, I must say that if the heirs find the heirs unfair in relation to the work that has been done, they can bring the matter to the court within four weeks from the last meeting of the Shift Court. Alternatively, the right to change can also be challenged by the court itself, without any heirs having made an outcry, and in this connection ask the administrator concerned to prove what work has been done. And in this context, it is probably necessary for me just to arrest comments that have been made about figures in this context: Imagine, the heir only got DKK 100,000. out of the estate, and the lawyer took 300,000 to 400,000 kroner. etc. Then I just have to say that they are apples and bananas, or whatever they say. So you can't compare that. There may have been enormous problems and disagreements between the heirs, properties that have been difficult to sell, old properties imposed on serviettes that first need to be cleaned up, so unfortunately a good deal of the estate's wealth can disappear in this way, even without it being characterised as abuse by the lawyer. So there may be work that justifies it. Hopefully, most of the time. Today you are entitled to know in what way the fee is calculated when the treatment of the estate begins, at its expected size, and you also have an ongoing right to know if it goes. I actually think you get that, too. As I said, I understand very well the background to the proposal. There are many who still feel that they are shocked when the final accounts are there. The only question is whether it will be better to have monthly statements. Yes, the shock may come in another way, but what I am referring to is that the work that needs to be done must be done, whether you get daily statements or not. Of course, one can declare one's dissatisfaction and change a lawyer at that time or request a change of law to appoint another, but unfortunately it will not be cheaper, rather quite the contrary. But there is one problem: I have to admit that the author of the motion is very well illustrated by the work of Court Officer Sorth. That is why I look forward to having the knowledge base in place so that we can discuss the way in which the fee is fixed in these cases. People have to pay for the work that has been done, but of course no more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151225	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151227	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur recognises that there is a problem and that there are some challenges in this area. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur could be interested in a joint report which, like the challenges that were, was written down, including the things that had to be resolved, so that, when this analysis is presented, we are sure that there will be some action rather than just talk. It can be said that this discussion is not a new one, it has been in the past for many years too, so I guess it's time for us to clean this up and have it looked through thoroughly, but also hold on to each other that there has to be action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151314	Whether we can share in a joint account? Yeah, yeah, we can. Unfortunately, I have to add to the questioner that it depends a little on what the report says. But I also see a problem, as the questioner now does, so do we not find common ground? And compared to the fact that the Minister of Justice indicates that there will be a greater basis of knowledge, I think that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151338	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151347	Thank you. This motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party will oblige administrators to submit written documentation of the amount of the fee once a month so that heirs can better keep up with the amount of the fee. I'll be very brief. We in the Enhedslist believe that greater transparency is being created for the heirs, and that is why we can support the proposal. We look forward to the work of the committee, and I can at least say now that we would very much like to be involved in a joint report. Of course, depending on what will be in it, because we also think it is very important that we ensure that there is some action in this area, so that we do not just wait for some analysis work. I very much agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that one does not exclude the other. We can easily adopt this proposal and then, of course, deal with the analysis work that is being done now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151444	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151451	In the absence of our rapporteur on this subject, I would like to express my sympathy for the resolution we are discussing here today. It has been heard of huge legal bills both in this area and in all other areas too. I acknowledge that. I think there is broad agreement on this and we can also hear that it is fair that heirs have an overview of the work done by a manager and, of course, also the fees for the same work. One is often the heir in a very incalculable situation, and if we, as legislators, can minimise that uncertainty, we should probably consider it as well. I note, however, that we already have a number of provisions which regulate this particular area of the motion for a resolution and which confer rights on heirs in setting the fee, among other things. It is also a right of appeal, as has already been mentioned. One can always discuss how detailed one has to regulate and, as the Minister has also mentioned, one already has a duty today to adjust the price information if it turns out that matters are dragging on. In addition, the Minister has also indicated that an analysis or collection of data in this area has been initiated very recently so that we can have a proper basis for legislation. As I said, I am very much in agreement with the political content of the resolution, but I think we should wait for the study that has been started. And then I do not think that we always have the best experience of regulating in very detailed terms in a business area like this. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151645	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151647	Well, that is because the rapporteur said it was about regulating. This is about information. It's about the heirs getting acquainted with the time-accounts... how many hours have been spent to keep up with the fee. So why would that rule it out? You can vote for this and then that work is going on and then we wait for it and then we will find a good solution for the other later. So why rule this out? It is actually about the heirs seeing and seeing through what is going on in relation to a settlement statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151723-2	I disagree that this is not about regulation. When you go all the way down to the detail and tell a company how to calculate its work and how to settle it, we are down to a very detailed regulation. One might ask the question: What about accountants and all sorts of others, where you often get a bill that can be difficult to understand all the details in? Maybe we should do something, but on this basis, I don't think we should hit the big hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151752	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151753	If the rapporteur is to have repaired his car, the rapporteur will probably call the mechanic and get an estimate of a price. Then I am sure that the rapporteur will have to correct it if it is wrong that the rapporteur is asking for a detailed bill on how many hours have been spent on making this car, also in relation to the elements that are and in relation to the actual price. Isn't that right? And what is the difference between that and the fact that you, as the administrator, have to account for how many hours you have spent on what and how much it costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151827	I am sure that if you complain about such a case, you can also get an inventory. Now we're talking a lot about debureaucratisation, pretty much every day. Then it can't help anything that every time we find a tiny problem, we put in place some new rules. Therefore, we will be very sure that it is the right medicine we are using in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151843	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403151852	Thank you. Dansk Folkeparti has made a proposal for a parliamentary decision that administrators should present timesheets. With the proposal, Dansk Folkeparti wishes to oblige the administrators to provide proof of the amount of the fee in the form of hourly accounts, and hourly prices and time spent must be shown in the hourly accounts. According to the proposers, the proposal will allow the heirs to keep up with the size of the fee and ensure that the administrator facilitates the treatment of the estate without undue delay. As it is now, the receiver is only obliged to provide information about the time spent or general charges at the first meeting with the heirs and, on the other hand, the receiver is not obliged to disclose the expected amount of the final fee. I would like to say quite clearly that we support the intention of the resolution to allow heirs to keep up with the amount of the fee. It is also essential that the receiver treats the estate without undue delay, as it may cost the heirs considerably. Having said that, the shift courts do not currently provide statistics on the administrators' fees in individual cases, the number of complaints about the board of directors, including the outcome of these complaints, as well as the number of administrators' fees that the court changes of its own motion, which means that we are not aware of the extent of the problem and whether this requires regulation on our part. The Minister for Justice, as he has also stated here in the Chair in response to the Danish Parliament, has asked the Court of Justice to ensure that in future the courts keep statistics on this. In this connection, the Minister of Justice has announced that he intends to follow the area and to initiate changes if the statistics show a need for this. I hear from the platform that this will be followed up, and I think it is positive, and I think this resolution is positive because it helps to ensure that the Minister for Justice will follow it up. But we'd like to wait for that investigation. We want to be in a report, of course depending on what the report says, but, as I said, we think that the intention of the resolution is positive, and that is why we support the intention, but would like to await the Minister for Justice's analysis of the cover.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152109	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152118	Thank you. I would like to be honest and say that this is not an area I have dealt with in the past, nor have I been aware of the problems that are evidently in this area, but I can understand that there are both some of the requests received by the Danish People's Party and also by the Minister's speech and by some of the other rapporteurs here, and that is, of course, something that we are also in favour of looking at. That is why we are also pleased with the Minister's announcement that this is something he is already focusing on, among other things. with an investigation by the Court of Justice of the fees and complaints of these fees. We very much welcome this and, if it is necessary, we would also like to contribute to the adoption of possible legislation in this respect, which could increase the legal position of those who are thus involved in such a trade-off case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152213	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152221	SF is very happy to contribute to greater clarity about the expenses that heirs can meet with a manager, and the dramatic increases that we have witnessed in recent years make us distrustful. We think it should be easy to see through a manager's fee. There must be transparency and it must be possible for ordinary people to have an overview of the costs of fees. The SF is in favour of the motion for a resolution, but cannot assess on a stand-by basis whether it would be best to wait for the material that is coming from the Minister. On the other hand, as the authors have already said, one does not rule out the other, so perhaps the most pragmatic approach would be a joint report from the committee, and the SF would like to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152315	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. We move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152322	The Danish People's Party has put forward proposals to amend the rules on fees for administrators. As I understand it, the proposers want to ensure that the fee for administrators is reasonable, by allowing heirs to keep up with the time spent by the manager, so that you do not suddenly get a bill that is higher than expected. We agree that administrators should have a reasonable remuneration and should not take advantage of the sometimes sensitive course that heirs have to go through. Although this is a very technical area of regulation, we must of course also ensure that the rules are fair here. However, as the Minister mentioned at the outset, the Court of Justice is in the process of obtaining data to clarify this area. I also think it is sensible to wait until this data collection is completed before we take a decision in this area. That is why we Conservatives cannot support the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152424	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152441	Thank you. The reason for this motion for a resolution is that I have received several requests from a number of heirs concerning very high fees to estate managers in succession cases. In addition, there has also been talk in the Committee on Legal Affairs about this. The Danish People's Party wants to strengthen transparency in succession cases. The proposal is to amend the law on the settlement of death, so that administrators are obliged to provide once a month evidence of the amount of the fee in terms of time and time, so that heirs can keep up with the size of the fee and ensure that the administrator facilitates the treatment of the estate. The heirs often find themselves in a situation where they do not know what a settlement statement is going to cost or where the estimate they have received does not hold up. The proposal here must ensure that heirs on a monthly basis can keep up with the number of hours spent on the estate and the hourly price. We in the Danish People's Party find this reasonable, not only to the voters, but also to the administrators. I have received several examples of the fact that there have been paid unreasonablely high fees in relation to the values in the Boers, as much as DKK 500,000. and DKK 700,000. I think that's a lot of money. There have been no statistics on how many heirs have complained about administrators' fees. In addition, as a receiver, you only have to take a reasonable price. But here I do not have an overview of what a reasonable fee is. In question 300 to the Minister for Justice, I have also asked whether the Minister will explain and provide evidence of how many heirs have suffered loss of value in settlements, but there is no answer to that either. On a question of how to make sure as heir that the estate is not emptied, the Minister has replied that it is only subject to spot checks. And here I would like the Minister to explain how many checks have been carried out on the right of change and what it looks like in this area at all. I would also like to hear the Minister reply to just how many complaints the Minister of Justice has received over the settlement and saints from the bosses of heirs and others. I have also received requests that it is not always easy to replace a manager. And what, in essence, should you do as an heir if the right of change refuses to replace a manager? How will the Minister ensure that the shift courses fulfil their responsibilities? But, of course, we have also noted in the Danish People's Party that the Minister for Justice has asked the Court of Justice to ensure that the courts of change, among other things. provide statistics on the staff of the administrator in individual cases. And the Minister will then, after an appropriate period, look at the information that is coming. And there we would like to know what an appropriate period is. With this proposal we simply want to increase transparency in this area, and we also believe that part of the solution may be to oblige the administrators of the estate to present an hourly balance sheet showing hourly prices and time spent once a month. And we do not think that this is unnecessary bureaucracy, since as a receiver you already know what hours have been spent on a case. Nor is it unreasonable for the heirs to be informed so that they can keep up. In addition, we also consider it important that the Minister for Justice look at the time perspective in relation to the creation, that is, the time, from the start of a case to the end of it. Often there is a long-term perspective, which means that the bills are also getting bigger. In addition, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten in particular for their positive reception, but also others who have at least received this proposal with recognition of the good intentions. And my hope is that we can jointly draw up a report which maintains the government that something must be done in this area. So I certainly intend to draft a report. In addition, I would also like to raise a number of other questions to the Minister for Justice during the committee's proceedings, including the question of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections. It is also in relation to cases in which the state inherits so that we can know what it looks like in that area. When the state inherits, we need to clarify how we will then maintain that legacy when, for example, there are. are no other heirs. So I fully agree that there is too little knowledge. There is no overview of what has been done in the shift courts in relation to complaints or samples, and it is good that we have a knowledge base. But one does not exclude the other, and one can easily support the Danish People's Party's proposal, at the same time as there is a collection of data. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152926	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403152939	The debate is open, and that is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153002	The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party calls for the government to put forward a legislative proposal whereby fewer people are deprived of the right to vote in local elections for reasons of disability. The Supreme Court has recently dealt with the issue of voting rights for minors. In a judgment of 18 January 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that there is nothing wrong with the current regime, that is, that the current regime does not conflict with the Constitution, the ECHR or the UN Disability Convention. The motion for a resolution calls for a more flexible system to be introduced into the guardianship law for the withdrawal of legal capacity, with the inspiration of the Swedish förvaltarskabsordningen. Under the Swedish scheme, persons cannot be deprived of their legal capacity and may be limited to certain financial assets or amounts of a certain amount. And that sounds really nice to me. The question, however, is whether the Swedish model can simply be transferred to Danish law. It is rarely the case with foreign law that it can be copied directly into Danish law, and we already have the opportunity today, under the guardianship law, to implement a limited guardianship. This guardianship may thus be limited to certain assets and certain transactions. The advantage of these guardianships is that people are not under authority and thus can vote for parliamentary elections. The rules of work are about taking care of those people who, for one reason or another, cannot take care of themselves. It is about protecting these people from the danger of their assets and from economic exploitation. Under the legal guardianship law, a person who has been deprived of his legal capacity shall be a minor person. This means that the person concerned cannot commit himself to legal acts or dispose of his or her assets. It acts as a guarantee of legal certainty for this group of people, and it protects them from unfortunate acts that bind them. So it serves a good and important purpose. Changing the guardianship rules in order to avoid Article 29 of the Constitution could lead to unintended and inappropriate consequences for those who are currently under guardianship. If, like the Swedes, we wanted to abolish the concept of unauthority, we could do so as early as tomorrow. After that, you would not see people who could not vote because they were under authority. But you would also find that a number of people who had to be protected were left behind. It is therefore important that we give the necessary and thorough consideration before we move to change the guardianship rules. As I have already mentioned, the Danish rules already provide for the possibility, like Swedish law, of restricting a guardianship to certain assets or discussions. And that is also one of the reasons why in Denmark there are fortunately only approx. 1 900 people, it has been necessary to remove legal capacity altogether. And then it is not just anyone who has decided that the result is that they should not be able to vote. It is the decision of the legislators and, as long as there are persons deprived of legal capacity, they will not be able to vote under the Constitution. The proposal immediately pursues a very laudable purpose, namely that fewer people are being deprived of the right to vote in local elections under guardianship. However, it is important that they are still protected by the guardianship rules, and further consideration is needed to examine how these two considerations are best taken into account. The Swedish model is not easily adaptable. And it will be difficult to minimize the group of babes further, as the guardianship law already contains the possibility of limited guardianship. But let us take a look at this because, of course, we must do as much as possible to ensure that as many people as possible have the opportunity to vote in parliamentary elections. The government will undertake an analysis of the possibilities of depriving fewer people who are currently under guardianship of the right to vote. The analysis will not be tied up on the Swedish model, but will consider all options. And this autumn we will be presenting possible proposals so that it is possible to do so by the end of 2018, if there is a majority for this in the Danish Parliament, i.e. to change the legislation, depending, of course, on how long negotiations we are going to have. But that is our intention, and we will do so, in other words, to present models so that in this Chamber we can choose a model that will allow more people to vote in parliamentary elections. But what the model should look like is what we would like to have the opportunity to work with over the summer. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153458	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153500	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I agree with the Minister that we also have a safeguard requirement to go to the citizens concerned. I do not think that the authors of the motion will dispute that in any way. What I would like to clarify is the intention of the government to carry out such an analysis. Is it true that it is the intention of the government to change the legislation in such a way that more people have the right to vote, or has the analysis been more non-binding and not targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153541	It is an honest intention that more people can have the right to vote. But we just want to be able to examine carefully how to get there, which model should be used, how to take that step. There may well be more models, and that is the work that is now under way. In the autumn we will come up with some options, and then we will have a political discussion here about which model is preferred and what can be done. Because we are already down to a very small number today because we have many other options. So it is the intention to find a way to get to where more people are given the opportunity to vote for a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153622	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153624	It has hardly been the intention of the proposers that we should copy the Swedish legislation and then we would probably have written it but in fact seek inspiration from it. I would just like to say straight away that I am pleased that the intention is then expressed very precisely, and I would also like to confirm that it should be understood that the government will endeavour to put forward a bill so in time, when the Danish Parliament meets again in October, that there is an opportunity for the elections to be held, of course, depending on when the elections are held, that we can negotiate that more people can already have the right to vote in the forthcoming parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153711	Yeah, that's our intention. After all, the world has gradually taught me that negotiations can drag on, but if there is a common will and I have only reason to believe that there is • then I hope that we can do so, so that we can have legislation in place before the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153729	Thank you, Minister. We are going to start with the rapporteur's series, and that is first, Mr President. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403153746	On the part of the Social Democrats, we, like the proposers, have a desire that people with disabilities and mental illness should be able to participate as much as possible in political life, whether or not they need support and protection in economic conditions. We fully agree with the intention to strengthen our democracy by involving more people with disabilities and having fewer people deprived of the right to vote in the light of the need for help and protection. After all, it is no secret that in the creation of this motion for a resolution, there have been probes, whether we could be in the motion for a resolution, but we have come back from that, because we think that the right place to put this task was in the Ministry of Justice and that the right thing was for the Minister of Justice to give a clear undertaking that this task should be carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. We have now received this from the Minister for Justice, and I have no reason to doubt that will result in the presentation of something which is in line with the intention of the proposers here today. And this is the stage that we have seen from the outset as the most emerging way of starting from Danish legislation and the Danish legislative tradition and helping to ensure that there is a basis on which we do not run into problems with purely legally afterwards in the work to be done. So, on the basis of the Minister for Justice's statement here today, we will abstain from voting in favour of the motion for a resolution as presented and will rely on the Minister for Justice's promise that the Ministry is working towards a set of models that will enable us to comply with the intention that fewer people should be deprived of the opportunity to vote in our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154006	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154021	Thank you for that, and thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, which is about the government putting forward proposals by the end of 2018 which, with the inspiration of the Swedish förvaltarskabsordningen, provide for a flexible regime whereby persons under guardianship can be deprived of their legal capacity to a limited extent without being deprived of authority. The scheme is designed to ensure that as few persons as possible are deprived of the right to vote in parliamentary elections as a result of disability by reference to Paragraph 29 (1) of the Constitution. 1, according to which persons who are not legally constituted shall not have the right to vote in local elections. On 21 April 2016, a majority of the Folketing decided to grant to people who are under Section 6 of the guardianship law and have been deprived of legal capacity, the right to vote in regional, municipal and European elections. Here we also debated this right to vote in local elections. At that time it was the case that the Ministry of Justice considered that it would be contrary to Paragraph 29 of the Constitution, and we have signed that we must abide by it. So at that time we could not support such a proposal. The decision of the Supreme Court also considered that it was contrary to the Constitution. But this proposal is both logical and sympathetic; if you can vote for regional, municipal and European elections, then you should also be able to vote for a parliamentary election. After the verdict, I had the Minister of Justice in question time, precisely in relation to what the Minister of Justice will do, and we have also had a discussion about the law on guardianship. We think it is positive that the Minister will undertake this analysis work, and we look forward to it in the Danish People's Party. We think it is a sympathetic proposal that several parties have put forward, and we would also like to help look at what models there can be and what changes we can make to the guardianship law, which can give voting rights to more people under the guardianship clause, of course, as long as we comply with the basic law. After all, there are a lot of people today who find it difficult to control their finances. We can also see this in the programme "The Luxury Trap." But that is why one can easily have an attitude and opinion and participate in democracy. And I also understand the wish that one should also be allowed to vote for a parliamentary election. We do not want to lay down what solution it should be or what the model should look like. Whether it will be with inspiration from Sweden or other countries is not so important; the important thing is that at some point there will be a well-worked bill and that work will now be started in the Ministry of Justice. And that is why I think we could produce a joint report precisely so that we can ensure that action is taken and we can ensure that there is also a legislative proposal in this area by the end of 2018. We would very much like to participate in the Danish People's Party, and then we look forward to the analysis work, which can also make us all a little more aware of what the best model can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154344	Thank you for that, President. The Left agrees with what has been said by the previous rapporteurs. We may have a little difficulty in seeing what the nuances of this are, and I could also sense from the rapporteur for the proposers of his question to the Minister that perhaps the rapporteur had a little difficulty in doing so. I recognise that the motion for a resolution says: with inspiration from the Swedish and so on, and that is where the problem arises, because I do not quite have an overview of what is involved in abolishing a guardianship. Today there are some who, together with their relatives, will see that this is a measure of legal certainty for their benefit, and then there are some in which it is indisputable that they should be cut off from something they should be part of: the democratic community, and we must find that balance. I'm not sure it's in the Swedish model. I do not really care what kind of model it is, because we are now going to have an analysis work, referring to the Minister's speech, and then we will have the Danish model created a Danish model in which we get the two legs moving in step. On the one hand, a leg which states that loving concern for some of society's most weakest is, in fact, that they are being deprived of authority and, on the other hand, a leg which states that the foundations of democracy are based on participation and, therefore, the greatest possible possibility of participation within the framework of the constitution. Those two legs, I'm sure we can make it go in step. That is why it is with reference to the inspiration of the Swedish model that the Left rejects it, but looks forward to further work. I would like to say hello to the Conservatives and announce that they are doing the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154614	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154624	I would like to start by saying that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. We cannot do this because we believe that the legal provisions that are currently in place are quite reasonable. We have set up a system which protects certain citizens who, for one reason or another, cannot take care of themselves. In recognition of the fact that not all people are alike, we also have a system in which limited legal safeguards can be put in place, aimed only at specific legal acts. We also have the Supreme Court's word for that is a good system that is in line with the Constitution and our international obligations. Basically, we also believe that if you are told by judgment that you are not able to take care of yourself, then it is also up to you to argue that you are able to decide on the organisation of society, whether there should be a surplus or a deficit in the budget law, whether we should go to war, etc. On the other hand, of course, it is also important that we ensure that no one is unduly deprived of their fundamental democratic right to vote. It is therefore only good that the government has launched an analysis in this area in order to clarify whether it is at all a problem and what could possibly be done with those models that we have heard about. One might also ask whether it makes sense to make a lot of sense out of a problem if it is only 1,900 people it is about. We should not, of course, shoot grey sparrows with guns, and I would also like to draw attention to the fundamental discussion that may be going on about this: if you cannot take care of yourself, do you serve democracy if you have to take a position on very large issues which it really means to be elected? Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154830	There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154833	I just want to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur: when a group of citizens takes a case to the Supreme Court, because their only desire in reality is to guarantee themselves the right to vote democratically for the Folketing, does the Liberal Alliance believe that these citizens are going the wrong way and that they should not have the opportunity to vote for the Folketing in the future because they are under financial guardianship?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154906	No, I think that every time we pass new laws in this thing, we should balance the concerns that exist. As I said before, there are, on the one hand, various concerns about protection and, on the other hand, of course, all those who have the opportunity to do so must also be allowed to vote. But we are talking about a group of 1,900 people, as I understand from the Minister. I don't know how many votes we have. Is it 3.5 million or something like that? Very few people are experiencing the ultimate restriction on their right to participate in democracy. One might also ask: What is the best service to democracy? Is it that we are sure that people who vote also have the conditions to vote, if you can put it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154957	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403154958	Thank you. Well, I know some of the 1,900, so it's not that few. Just so that I understand the answer from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, I would like to ask: when you are under an economic guardianship today, you have also been deprived of the opportunity to vote for the Folketing, and the Liberal Alliance is in favour of changing the law so that an economic guardianship does not necessarily mean that you cannot vote for the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155033-2	That is precisely why the question is whether the rules that we already have today are not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155041	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155043	I take note of the rapporteur's very strong emphasis on the fact that this is the only reason why I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not consider it a very fundamental matter whether, as a Danish citizen, you have the opportunity to vote for a parliamentary election, and does it not have such a principle that the question of whether it is one or many thousand, in that sense, does not matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155118	That can be said, but the number says something about the fact that it is really, really few who come out all the way where the ultimate decision is made that our social system should now be described as one who has difficulty in having democratically reasonable conditions for voting when, in other contexts, as I said before, one is unable to take care of oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155150	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155152	After all, when we discussed the proposal to grant voting rights to the same group of citizens in municipal and regional elections a few years ago, I noticed that the Liberal Alliance voted against. In spite of the rapporteur's not very positive remarks, should I understand that there has been a movement on the part of the Liberal Alliance, so that if we can solve this problem without conflicting with the Constitution, it also has the support of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155223	There is no doubt that we have to go as far as we can, and that is actually the situation when the Minister has just said that there are different models and that, if there are any of them that look reasonable, we should go as far as we possibly can. Because, of course, it's basic, no doubt about it. But I still think that when you talk about 1,900 people, it is really, really few who are in the serious situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155244	Then we can thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155255	Thank you. One should not be deprived of one's right to vote because one needs support for the financial arrangements in one's life because one is perhaps mentally ill, disabled or gambling for that matter. That is why I think it is actually a happy day for those people who are under administration in purely economic terms, but who are truly political people who really want to use their democratic rights and vote in a parliamentary election. I noticed that the Minister started by saying that an analysis of this is now being made so that fewer people are being deprived of their right to vote, even if they are under guardianship, and that actually means that the matter should be resolved. As to whether it is the Swedish model or another model that we need, it must of course be the model that best suits Danish conditions and, as I hear the various parties, the result of that analysis will be binding in the preparation of such a model. Of course, you should not expect anything when you have not yet seen it in writing, but I think this problem will be solved. From all the things I have heard today, I believe that we will have a model to ensure that political people placed under economic administration have their right to vote, and I think that is very welcome. So I would like to say that the alternative is pleased to be included in this resolution. It is not every day that a motion for a resolution ends up leading to the kind of rule change that the motion for a resolution intended to achieve very, very rarely. So thank you to those who have helped to make this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155500	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155508	Thank you. The starting point of this motion for a resolution is that one is being deprived of authority because of the guardianship law, as it is today, when one has been given help to one's economy to a certain extent. It is, of course, difficult for those who are marked by it, because the situation in which you are a citizen of that country does not prevent you from participating in democracy and the organisation of society as such, from having a job and even having taken an education. Those people are also among the 1,900 people affected by the clause of the guardianship law that we are talking about here today. We all know how important it is for a human being to be part of a community, including in Denmark, and to have rights as a citizen on an equal footing with all other citizens who are citizens of this country. That is why I am pleased to note that the Minister for Justice indicated that we should look at it; that the government would undertake an analysis work and make a proposal in the autumn which meets the objectives of motion for a resolution B 71. I think that is fantastic and I would like to acknowledge that. And then I would suggest that we make a report to this excellent motion for a resolution which, if I may say so, repeats what we have said here today. But thank you to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155640	We thank Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155651	Everything or nothing. That is the current Danish legislation on financial guardianship. It is precisely this relationship that means that people who, for example because of physical or mental disability, must leave responsibility for economic relations with others, cannot stand for parliament or vote for parliamentary elections. In the SF we believe that this particular provision discriminates against adults with disabilities. The Supreme Court has unfortunately confirmed the understanding of the Danish guardianship law and actually allowed us to understand that it would require a change in the constitution if the current legislation were to be interpreted differently. In Sweden, some other experience has been gained and the problem has been solved by amending the law on guardianship, so that it is now possible to limit a guardianship to very special circumstances. I fully agree with the comments that have already been made on the Swedish model. It is not necessarily Swedish legislation that we have to make in Denmark, but much like a Danish version of the same. In my previous job I have often encountered frustrations when it comes to guardianship. Especially a certain woman impressed me. She had inherited a lot of money, and she was, as such, involved in the guardianship, which then also had to ensure that she did not burn off the entire fortune at once by giving the money away briefly and well to people to whom she would like to give it, when she happened to have money in her pocket. Because, as she said, I'm probably too easy, but I can't help giving the money away when someone's missing it. But one thing was the unconditional guardianship; another was that this particular woman, because of her financial guardianship, was also cut off from voting for parliamentary elections. She was in control of where the intersection was to be set. The family had always voted conservatively, and she thought that Poul Schlüter was such a reasonable man. We may be a little different in this way, but it should not deprive us of the opportunity to influence the development of society. At least I hope that the report can also impress the Minister for Justice. I am very pleased with the positive reception of the proposal and will look very much forward to having a proposal in the Chamber that we can finally adopt for the benefit of these people who have actively sought a solution to this very problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155917	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403155927	With the proposal here we have, who are the authors of the motion, i.e.: The Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF and the Radical Left wanted to remove what we have seen as unfair discrimination against a smaller but yet a group of citizens who might expect in a society like ours to have the right to vote. If one looks at this in a historical light, one has to say that it is actually such a strange reminiscence that we have from all the way back to 103 years ago, when we were not present, but our predecessors adopted the amendment of the Basic Law in 1915 which, of course, was based on the principle that all nationals of this country should have the general right to vote. And I guess that's what's been the common realization. After all, when we dealt with the matter two years ago, there was also a very broad consensus in the Assembly that there was a need to do something. Unfortunately, at that time, we could only change the law in the case of local, regional and European elections, but not in the case of elections to the Folketing. It was then the view of the government and a majority in the Folketing that it would be contrary to the Constitution. When I look back at the debate, I can see that we were not sure that such a position had legal coverage. We have had confirmation of this, whether you like it or not, of the verdict that fell in the Supreme Court here in January. I would say, I think I understand that although it is difficult to understand the enormous disappointment it must have been, not just for the four citizens who had brought the case, but for all the citizens who had to acknowledge that the Supreme Court interpreted our legislation in such a way that it was contrary to the Constitution to give those concerned the right to vote. As legislators, we just have to clap our heels in and say: Well, the Supreme Court has spoken; then that opportunity has been exhausted. And that is also why we, as the authors of the motion for a resolution, have sought what other ways could be taken, because we have actually seen that there was a common intention, or at least that the vast majority of the Folketing wanted to solve this problem. We have considered that the wordings contained in section 6 of the guardianship law can be changed in such a way that there is a limitation in the way in which legal capacity is restricted, so that it does not lead to an impelling of voting rights. I agree with those who have said that we should not have Swedish legislation, but Danish legislation. We have just done it, that we have tried to seek inspiration by seeing what has been done elsewhere. And you can see, when you read it, I have to admit that I have not been through the material from one corner to the other... the 500 pages that were made there 30 years ago in the Swedish legislative work, that it succeeded in changing what corresponds to our guardianship law in Swedish law, so that this problem was removed. It is very clear in the Swedish legislative work that the whole point of departure was that in Sweden, too, the fact that the citizens concerned were unable to vote for the Riksdag was blocked. And that is why we have simply wanted to show and clarify that a thinking which, moreover, is a reflection of both Norwegian and Swedish legislation, the background of which is also reflected in the Swedish legislative proposals, has been able to serve as an inspiration for changing the legislation here. Having said that, I was incredibly pleased with the Minister for Justice's opening speech. For us the four parties have not been important as proposers to go a very specific way. For us, it has been absolutely crucial that we have changed the legislation so that as many of the 1,900 citizens as possible could have the right to vote. And I would like to say that I personally have not given up on the fact that we can get there, that we can have all the citizens concerned included in the right to vote in a parliamentary election. But the further work of law must show that. So I would like to thank the co-sponsors of the other three parties. Thank you for the positive statements by the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, and not least for the positive statement by the government. I am sure that all four of us are very pleased with this. It's always nice, even if you have the cat in the bag, to make sure it stays there too. So I very much agree with what was said, including the report and the report. I think it's wise that we write this. It should certainly not be seen as a mistrust of the undertaking we have received. It was even an honest intention, I understood from the Minister for Justice; then it can't get any better. Nevertheless, it is important that we have a report so that we also write that there is a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament on solving this problem. I am also pleased that the government will endeavour to have this negotiated so quickly that the 1,900 citizens who today lack the right to vote in the parliamentary elections can have a hope that they will not only be spectators in a forthcoming parliamentary elections, but that they can actually be allowed to join in and exercise their democratic rights with the rest of us. So thank you for the many remarks. I look forward to us adopting legislation in the autumn which will ensure, if not otherwise, the right to vote for more and, at best, the right to vote for all the citizens concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403160542	So now we're gonna tie the bag with a thank you to Mr. Knox. Jakob Silver Mound. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403160607	There are a number of rounds and, of course, there will be a round of rapporteurs in each of them. We shall start with the debate on the OSCE. The debate is open, and the first is Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403160645	First of all, I would like to thank you for the explanations. This is the OSCE part that I have to deal with. If you look at it, there is a tendency for daily rye bread work in the field of foreign policy to be pushed into the background of the huge headlines between foreign policy heavyweights, unfortunately often at Twitter level. It is a pity that attention is almost exclusively on the headlines and interpretations of these. The parties of the Folketing have asked the government to at least nuance the Danish debate on the more detailed organisations and discussions in the effort to promote peace and détente in a world of unfortunately far too many conflicts. The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is one of the bodies involved in promoting understanding, peace and security in Europe. The organization is based on the great change that took place after the fall of the wall and the dissolution of the balance of power between the superpowers. Everyone hoped that this would contribute to peace and security. Unfortunately, a need quickly emerged to create organisations that could be included in the more nuanced debates on strife and tension. The OSCE plays a role here as both a monitoring and a discussion forum. The realization is that the more human relations, the greater the opportunities to get the nuances involved in building trust between countries. Is that an unconditional success? No, you can't say that. The most deterrent example of disrespect for each other is the situation in Ukraine, where the great Russia has taken its own course and created a stalemate of lack of understanding between the countries of the region. The OSCE has been a useful instrument in resolving the deadlock, but it is not a simple and straightforward task. In addition, the situation is complicated by the backward steps in the area of human rights. Denmark contributes both financially, organisationally, diplomatically and with the involvement of the debate between parliamentarians. The recognition that it is important to maintain the points of view of the conflicters in a room is essential, although it is not always uplifting. The hunters quickly get to a boil when old-fashioned attitudes from the Mister Njet period come to the surface and dominate one side's arguments. Shall we give up? No, that can't happen. As people, we need to believe in the impact of dialogue and debate, regardless of its tendency to simply stand on its own views. If we look at the human dimension, it is further strained by the tensions that exist in European security policy. In particular, Turkey's growing lack of respect for democratic principles and the rule of law poses problems which will continue to require action from, among others. OSCE. One element of this deficiency is that it is absolutely essential that we maintain the fight against torture on the OSCE agenda. We support Denmark's active role in this and other soft values. Arms control is another tool for promoting peace and détente. We support the efforts made in relation to this work. The cyber discussion is expected to be a major discussion within the OSCE, and it is both essential and right to put this on the agenda between countries. Election observations are essential both for parliamentarians, ministries and organisations' own people. This allows pressure to be exerted to respect the fundamental principles of democracy, which do not have everywhere as strong roots as they do with us. If the effort is to be judged on victories alone, the assessment will be somewhat depressing. The truth is that it must also be assessed on its contribution to a continuing process aimed at promoting understanding through dialogue, and that is still a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161129	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. Then we go ahead in the series of speeches, and that's Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161142	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement. Now I can see that the Minister is not sitting in his seat but somewhere else in the Chamber but he is listening. It is, after all, about the statement on the OSCE. Firstly, we in the Danish People's Party welcome the OSCE and the role of the OSCE. Unlike EU cooperation, for example, the OSCE is, after all, cooperation between free and independent nations, which meet and work together and have a dialogue with each other. There is no possibility of imposing anything on each other, but we can have a peaceful dialogue with each other, and we maintain that these are sovereign and independent states. In this way, the OSCE is a good alternative or a complement to the European Union, just as the Nordic Council is also the one that will have to be discussed later today. I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party find it regrettable that what we had previously had several separate agenda items, namely the OSCE, the Nordic Council, Nordic defence cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation and the Council of Europe, has now merged into one agenda item. We may think that each of these cooperation organisations could deserve to have its own agenda item. When you think about what the Folketing spends time on many different proposals of a very different nature, we do not think it is unreasonable that you should also have independent agenda items for this. But back to the substance of the statement: we in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that the OSCE has the function that it has in the conflict that is in eastern Ukraine, where the OSCE is indeed the facilitator of the dialogue that is between Ukraine on the one hand and Russia on the other. After all, this is a dialogue which, fortunately, led to the conclusion of the Minsk Agreement some time ago. The OSCE also supervises compliance with the Minsk Agreement. The OSCE is also active in other areas, such as: by election observations. Unfortunately, this is necessary in many countries. Not all countries have the same good, positive and democratic traditions as we have in Denmark. That is why, in some places, there is a different view of how democratic elections should take place. That is why the OSCE has decided to participate in these election observation missions. In the same way, the OSCE is also monitoring that the rights of various minorities are respected. It is both that the rights of religious minorities, but also those of sexual minorities, are respected within the Member States. And, in the case of the OSCE Member States which extend widely, from the United States and Canada across Europe and to former Soviet republics and also Mongolia, indeed, there are very different views on how to respect the rights of our fellow human beings. So we also welcome the participation of the OSCE. So in these words, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party take note of the statement and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161541	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161544	Thanks for the post. I note that the rapporteur said that, unlike the European Union, the OSCE consists of free and independent states. However, allow me to say that the Member States of the European Union are also free and independent countries. At least that's how I see Denmark. It is true, then, that more binding agreements have been reached in individual areas than have been done in the OSCE, and I really think this is a positive thing. Because the rapporteur does not agree with me that the main problem facing us in the OSCE at the moment is precisely that we cannot commit, for example, in eastern Ukraine. Russia to live up to the Minsk agreement, that we cannot commit each other to living up to the human rights, the free elections, everything that we commit each other to in the European Union? How one can come to the conclusion that it is negative that we have committed each other to it in the European Union, and well that we do not have it in the OSCE, I really do not fully understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161647	Well, what is my point is that the OSCE is made up of countries and that it is a cooperation in which we have a dialogue, but where we cannot tie each other in any way. I see that as something positive. After all, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are rather sceptical about the transfer of sovereignty to the European Union that has taken place, or as some parties here in the Folketing and also in the EU system would like to see it extended. We see it as something positive, but since Russia is an independent country, we cannot force it to do anything. And I doubt that Russia could be included in a cooperation in which sovereignty was to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161739	It is quite true that in the European Union we have chosen to share our sovereignty with each other in order to win sovereignty together over, for example. cross-border crime, refugee problems, climate problems, etc. It was not really a big EU discussion that I wanted to go into. But I wanted to see how effective OSCE cooperation really is when we cannot commit each other to just the basic principles of democracy and human rights. At the moment, at least, I have serious doubts as to whether we can succeed in doing so. I think it is a commendable work that the OSCE is doing, and it is very important that they are present in eastern Ukraine. However, moving the Minsk agreement is progressing slowly, precisely because the OSCE does not commit the countries. It was actually just the recognition that that price is paid also by the form of cooperation that I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161840	As I said, it is a value, I believe, that we cannot force each other to do anything in OSCE cooperation. I don't know where it is, sir. Martin Lidegaard actually wants to take the line of thought. Is it up to us to have a police force which must force different states to behave differently than they want? I think we are very much in agreement that it would then be desirable for all countries to behave properly towards both other countries and towards their own people, but unfortunately that is not the reality, and I do not believe in the idea of introducing some kind of police to deal with this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161918	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403161919	Now, sir. Mikkel Dencker be completely calm in relation to the EU's ability to dictate democracy to the countries, for neither can they; just look at Poland and Hungary. But I kind of understood Mr. Mikkel Dencker's statement in the sense that it was free to decide for itself, because there was probably not in it, sir. Mikkel Dencker said it was free countries for the people. We surely agree that a large number of OSCE countries, some of which are also EU countries, are anything but democratic, anything other than democratic, and some of them are at a level where we have to say that they are authoritarian regimes where the influence of the people has been put out of action. So, sir. Mikkel Dencker didn't mean free in that sense, did he?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162008	No, sir. Søren Søndergaard and I agreed completely. It is the countries that are mutually free from each other, but there are certainly many of the OSCE Member States where the population is not free.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162022	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162035	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a good and thorough statement on the OSCE. Unfortunately, this year, the conflict in Ukraine has once again filled an incredible amount on the OSCE agenda. And despite the fact that that very question has filled quite a lot, unfortunately there has been no movement. The situation remains that a large Member State has taken part in the territory of a smaller Member State and international agreements have been broken and there has been no willingness to resolve the conflict. It challenges the OSCE, and yes, the OSCE is challenged. Because there are tensions in Europe and backward steps in areas such as human rights. And this is, of course, made more difficult by consensus-based cooperation, as is the case in the OSCE, where among other things. Russia does not hesitate to block decisions on its own and challenge existing commitments. Here in 2018, we are still away with the long-standing conflicts in both Georgia, Moldova and Nagorno-Karabakh, with challenges such as terrorism, extremism, radicalisation and trafficking in human beings and, not least, migration. In short, the OSCE is needed as never before. Denmark is also a small country in the OSCE context, but a small country that is also making a great deal of effort; whether it is a major contributor to the efforts to implement the Minsk agreement, or when it comes to maintaining and extending the Vienna document, thus ensuring continued arms control and thus increased military transparency, which must be the starting point for any dialogue between states. I would also like to highlight Denmark's efforts to promote fundamental human rights such as freedom of religion and belief, but also the rights of Algerians who, in countries such as Turkey, Chechnya, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan and Russia, are being oppressed and have their rights violated. And this despite the fact that these are rights which, as an individual, should be guaranteed when one's country is admitted to the OSCE. I welcome the fact that the Danish Government is sticking to what was the starting point. Today, we should also be talking about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which aims to facilitate interparliamentary dialogue, an important aspect of overall efforts to meet the challenges of democracies throughout the OSCE area. The Parliamentary Assembly is closely following the objectives of the OSCE, and the Assembly is also monitoring that the individual states are meeting the objectives. The issues discussed by the Council of Ministers are held to one another and efforts are being made to prevent future conflicts through prevention and dialogue. The OSCE PA office and Secretary-General are in Copenhagen, and this gives Denmark a very special role, but also a special responsibility. However, this location also means that Denmark has a very special cooperation with the OSCE PA. The Danish OSCE delegation has entered into cooperation with the other Nordic and Baltic States, and in this cooperation we are trying to find common ground, but also to ensure that the Nordic way of thinking enjoys further advancement within the OSCE PA. Finally, I would like to thank the government for its good and constructive cooperation in the OSCE, but I would also like to thank the members of the Danish OSCE PA delegation who work concentrated and targeted within the OSCE PA framework. And it should also be borne in mind that Members are very willing to sacrifice both weekends and holidays in order to promote this cooperation. It is a great challenge to be a Danish parliamentarian and to be on election observation in e.g. Russia, where you cannot use its IT funds so that you can do your daily work. But you push all that in front of you until you get home. If only all the OSCE countries had lived up to what they had committed themselves to, you would have been able to take your computer and phone with you, even when you were on election observation in Russia. We support the Minister's statement and thank him again for a good and comprehensive statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162458	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403162515	I would also like to start by thanking the chairman of the Danish parliamentary delegation of the OSCE for the always good mood even during the dullest meetings. I'm here to sign for it. After all, the OSCE is an extremely important organisation. I think it is equally necessary to remember the background to the existence of the OSCE. It was, of course, the dissolution of the Cold War; it was that one realised that one had to have a human dimension in the work; it was that one understood that it was not appropriate for conflicts to become countries against countries, but that it was important also to include the issue of democracy and human rights, so that it also became the interests of peoples to a greater extent. It was one of those things. What helped us to achieve a peaceful settlement of the Cold War, in other words because there was a revolt in a number of Eastern countries where human rights were sought. The idea of not seeing conflicts as conflicts between whole countries against whole countries, but seeing conflicts also in relation to human rights, seems to us to be an incredibly important aspect. Because that is what allows us to use the people's desire for democracy to resolve conflicts peacefully, regardless of the governments that side. That is why there are also many of the things that the OSCE has historically done, which are very good and which have also been mentioned here, that is to say election observations,lgbti rights and so on. etc. under the Minsk Agreement. Of course, there are also some problems. Some of the problems I would like to mention here are that there has been a tone in the OSCE which has come into confrontation with the OSCE, among other things. has led to lengthy blockages of appointments, which have been quite unacceptable for the organisation's way of working, a tendency towards increasing politicisation or landisation in relation to different appointments rather than the question of qualifications. Another problem I would like to mention is that it is so most of a criticism of the Parliamentary Assembly that is in relation to the issue of election observation, where something as central as an election observation of the referendum in Turkey was failed by the OSCE. This was left to the Council of Europe alone. The ODIHR was present and thus the OSCE as an organisation, but the Parliamentary Assembly chose to be absent, which I think must be looked at critically, although I understand very well that it was probably a question of money and things like that. After all, responsibility also falls a little back on the Member States, including ourselves. However, it is something worth mentioning as an unfortunate thing. We know, of course, from such referendums, that it is the kind of referendum that is extremely important to watch and observe. One last thing I would like to mention is that I believe that the OSCE has become too much a hostage in the conflict over Ukraine. Perhaps I think that in Denmark too we need some reflection on whether the way we helped tackle Ukraine's conflict through the European Union was the most appropriate way of avoiding confrontation. In other words, it was to put Ukraine before the elections either to join Russia or the European Union appropriately in a situation where everyone knew that Ukraine is the country Ukraine means the border where a quite large part of the population speaks Russian, is Russian oriented, and another part is western oriented. Asking them to take a position on either- or may not be the most appropriate way if you want a peaceful solution. That is why the problem could perhaps have been dealt with in a different way if one had wanted to avoid the confrontation that came. This deprives those who have used military power and annexed areas of no responsibility at all, but it is fair that we ourselves should reflect on whether the line we have had has been the best. Do I have more time, President? I have no more time, it was too bad, because I had a very good point, but I have to save it for a later occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163041	But don't worry. Søren Søndergaard, because there will be more opportunities, because there are some questions. Søren Søndergaard Oh yes, thank you. But I have to answer them. Yes, but I know Søren Søndergaard's ability to spread out a little. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163054	It is just for the sake of history: that the European Union should have forced Ukrainians to choose between Russia and the European Union, I just have to say, as the then Foreign Minister, that I am simply not correct. The people of Ukraine and at that time the President and the assembly of Parliament wanted a so-called association agreement with the European Union, i.e. an extended trade agreement. It informed the European Union that the EU was willing to join, provided that its corruption was cleared up, that some power was taken from the oligarchs, that everything needed to join the European club was done in terms of just trade in this case. It was not a fait accompli that we should now break with Russia and not trade with Russia and everything else, not at all. It was a very simple association agreement which could easily have been concluded, at the same time as further action was taken with Russia. That was just the correction that I thought was appropriate. You could get a different impression from that, sir. Søren Søndergaard said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163156	Well, we disagree about that. Of course, even if an association agreement with the European Union had been concluded, it could easily have been acted upon, but it was an association agreement with the European Union, and Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who followed the situation closely, knows what was ahead. That was an agreement with Russia, and then it changed. Then there came a new government or not even a new government, it was probably the same president and then it became an association agreement with the EU, instead of sitting around a table and discussing things and trying to find a solution that everyone could see themselves in. That is a little like saying: No, Germany did not have any co-responsibility whatsoever for the civil war in Yugoslavia; only Croatia's secession was recognised, and Croatia wanted to do so. Yes, that is true, but recognizing Croatia's secession back into the civil war in Yugoslavia without having a plan for what would happen to Bosnia was de facto helping to pave the way for the civil war that came. So sometimes you just have to think a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163305	It would be very good if Mr. Martin Lidegaard pressed himself when he wanted to speak, because the microphone is also ready. Then it came.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163310	I have to say, I'm glad it wasn't Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard's logic, which prevailed when all the other Eastern European countries were given the chance to increase their standard of living and strengthen their democracy and to abolish corruption, because they were first given an association agreement with the European Union and later, in the long term, the opportunity to become a member, because they themselves did not have the opportunity to rise up financially and create a proper society. The Ukrainians wanted to do that, just as Poland has done, just as the Czech Republic has done. It is not unproblematic, it is not easy. I'll be the first to forgive that. However, the fact that the European Union should sit down and, like the shell and waltz, what the Ukrainians must and must not do, when what is agreed is not at all hostile to Russia, I do not buy. So, I would say that if there is anyone for whom it would be an economic advantage, then it is Russia that would have a larger market for their main trading partner and that would have the possibility of even greater exports, because Ukraine's economy would grow. This is all Russia's narrative, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has adopted. That it would be a hostile act against Russia, that Ukraine would be better economically, I just don't buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163413	Well, it's pretty much just finding out what happened. In other words, it happened that a fairly large proportion of the population saw it in this way. So it doesn't really matter if it was intended or what. But I guess it hasn't happened to anyone that what was going on in Ukraine was a civil war it was a civil war. It was not a war between a small power elite and the great people. Nor was it a war between a united people and a foreign occupying power. It was a civil war that took place in Ukraine. To say that it was a civil war in Ukraine, Mr. Martin Lidegaard perceives as a Russian narrative, but I think you need to wear certain glasses in order not to see that there has been a civil war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163504	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163507	I have to admit, I thought I'd gone wrong. I thought I had just come to a debate meeting in Russia Today or Sputnik News instead of hearing Enhedslisten's rapporteur on history writing in relation to Ukraine. For the facts are that Ukraine had negotiated and negotiated through the 00s and tried to approach the EU more and more. President Janukovych promised us he'd sign this deal, but then broke that promise. And then the whole conflict started then, because fortunately there was a great and widespread desire in Ukraine to approach the West and join this association agreement. Then it is not history writing a la Sputnik News and Russia Today, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is well at it? I must admit, I am deeply puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163554	Well, that opportunity to be puzzled, I'm not gonna take away sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. However, I would just like to ask one thing that the rapporteur has the opportunity to answer now: if a free and independent referendum were to take place in Crimea, would the rapporteur be in doubt for a second that there would be a majority for not being part of Ukraine and either being independent or being associated with Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163621	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163622	Now I think we're getting very far around. I am always happy to discuss Ukraine, but the rapporteur knows very well that nothing has happened that resembles a democratic vote in Crimea. Whether there is a tendency to go one way or another, there is no one, either the rapporteur or myself, who knows one hundred percent. I myself have been in Crimea before it became Russian possessed, and I have also met a great many in Crimea, including the Tatars, who absolutely did not want to come under Russian control. So whether there is one or the other majority no one knows. The fact is that the storywriting in what Enhedslisten stood and said was one hundred percent Russian; total Russian headline on it all. And I must admit that actually shocked me a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163705	You just have to note that if you look at Crimea completely soberly, you see that all independent investigations have shown that the population is divided. Then we can discuss whether it's 40%. in one place and 60%. the other place or the other way around. I have not indicated at all that that referendum was democratic, by the way, was it not 102 per cent that it ended up with? So, I have not indicated that it was democratic, and I attach no value to it, and we condemn Russia for that occupation completely. There is no need to question that. But that does not change the fact that there is a division of the population, and that division was not taken as a starting point when the agreements were made, and that has, among other things, been. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163754	With that, we thank Mr. Søren Søndergaard and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Søndergaard. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403163804	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the selected international organisations that we are discussing today. After all, foreign policy cooperation, as we can hear already, always allows for incredibly exciting discussions, which is why I am, of course, pleased to be able to say a few words at first about the OSCE. In the Liberal Alliance, we are happy and positive about Denmark's efforts and cooperation with the other OSCE countries. This is what you might think of shortcomings and shortcomings... an incredibly important dialogue forum in relation to, among other things. human rights at a time when we are seeing that the human rights we had almost begun to take for granted in Denmark are something that is being pressured in other countries. And the fine thing about the OSCE is that when human rights are discussed under the auspices of the OSCE, there is no interference in the situation in other countries. You just remind them of what they signed themselves, and that's quite another thing. It is good that the OSCE can act as a place for dialogue to be established, but the observer missions, as several have mentioned, are also extremely important. This applies to election observation, where the OSCE has played a key role on several occasions in the conduct of elections around the Member States, and the observer missions in Ukraine are also extremely important. Here we observe and report on the security situation and human rights issue in relation to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. So we are very positive that the government will continue to give priority to cooperation. It promotes important work, dialogue and cooperation on security in Europe. And that is not least through forums such as, for example. The OSCE, that a smaller country like Denmark also gets a voice that is heard. So we look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403164023	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Next in line is Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403164029	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. As the name of the OSCE indicates, the work is essentially about security and cooperation between the Member States, and the approach to security, like three aspects, is about the military and political, the economic and environmental aspects and the human aspect. And in reality, I feel very strongly that it reflects precisely the very long-term and sensible approach that we should have to take to security, where the military aspect is a very small and short-term part of that picture. The long-term perspective for security is essentially about people and about ensuring them rights and living conditions. And this is what we do best by ensuring that the societies in which people live are democratic constitutional states in a sustainable world and on a planet that has a sustainable nature. One of the places where we in the Alternative believe that the OSCE really has added value is in relation to the work on democracy. A concrete example, of course, is the election observation missions and the assessment of individual electoral acts in relation to democratic principles. In this way, the OSCE is helping to take the temperature of democracy in the Member States, and this gives us a picture of where we have to take action and, unfortunately, there is a great deal that can be much better in a number of countries. For example, elections are to be held in Azerbaijan in April, where the ODIHR has not, surprisingly, already expressed serious concerns that the electoral procedure in Azerbaijan will not be very democratic this time either. These election observations are important, which is why I would like to commend the government for emphasising Denmark's support for the work and also the work of the other independent institutions of the OSCE. This leads me, of course, to the situation in Turkey, which unfortunately seems to have only got worse since the failed coup attempt in the summer of 2016. The OSCE representative for freedom of the media, Harlem Désir, has just criticised the continued detention of the editor of Turkey's oldest government-critical newspaper. 500 days he has now been in prison without having done anything illegal, and the worst thing is that, as everyone knows, he is far from being the only one locked up for no reason. When freedom of expression is kidnapped so hard inside Turkey, it is crucial that we support everything we can at all about civil society and about freedom of expression. That is why it is extremely important that Turkey's pressure on NGOs and civil society should not reach beyond its borders and into the cooperation that we have in the OSCE. While supporting democratic forces within Turkey, we must ensure that Erdogan's darklights do not reach beyond Turkey's borders, among other things. by safeguarding the opportunities for NGOs to participate in the work of the OSCE. Finally, of course, I am also very, very concerned about the security situation of many people in the OSCE Member States, including Turkey, Tajikistan and, of course, Chechnya and Russia at all. To be who you are and to love who you love can and must never become a crime or a security risk. And that is why I am very pleased to read in the statement that the government has taken a great deal of responsibility and leadership in this area. And, of course, I would urge you to keep doing that. Democracy, freedom of expression and the right to love and be who you are are are values that really create security for people, and it creates a world of societies that are stable and good to live in. And that is why it is very much here that the focus should lie, including security policy. The military focus must be more secondary and last resort, because that is not what creates real and sustainable human security.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403164435	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, the Radical Left, is standing by. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403164444	Thank you very much, President, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. The OSCE is an interesting construction. If you have to be a little honest in this closed forum, you can say that it is such a box that we have standing, that usually lives a quite carefree life, that nobody really takes notice of, and then sometimes we need to open that box and use the tools that lie down in it. We needed this during the war in the former Yugoslavia, and we suddenly needed it in 2014, when the OSCE was the forum in which we could establish negotiations and a dialogue between Ukraine and Russia, both of which were members and, in this way, in advance, one might say, had accepted a set of ground rules for negotiations. In this context, I and my party are also very much in favour of having such a toolbox as the OSCE. There is no doubt that the organisation is playing an important role in Ukraine today and that we should be glad that we have it. Having said that, I must also say just as frankly that it is clear to everyone what very, very great limitations this type of cooperation has. Comparisons have been made with the European Union today and there should be no doubt that we do not see the form of cooperation that the OSCE stands for as the ideal form of cooperation, as the Danish People's Party and to some extent the Enhedslisten do. It is because we do not believe that it gives Denmark neither more autonomy nor influence over the major serious international challenges that we face if we cannot commit each other and, above all, the big countries to the rules of the game and to the goals that we have to achieve. And if you have to commit one another, then it requires you to share sovereignty, because otherwise you cannot move the world together. And we think it is in a small country like Denmark's interest to do so. Therefore, it is also limited what Denmark can do in the OSCE other than to speak, what is important, and express the positions Denmark has and, of course, provide the contributions to what is happening on the ground in Ukraine. And there I think it would be exciting to hear perhaps a little more than what the statement says about the points where Denmark has taken on quite significant responsibilities for the development of Ukraine, what ideas are being made in the government about the interaction between what might be called the OSCE track and Minsk on the one hand, and so on, for example. the responsibility assumed under the auspices of the European Union for the entire anti-corruption campaign in Ukraine. Is there an interaction? Where is Denmark? Are we with a little closer perhaps to some of the negotiations that are taking place in the Minsk process on our commitment to the EU track, etc.? There are some interactions between the different forums, which I think it might be exciting to hear more about. Since I have one minute left, I also have to say to Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard in relation to histories and Ukraine and Russia, that I myself have cycled 1,800 km through Ukraine before the crisis. I've also been riding almost to Moscow in Russia. I think I know the two countries quite well. There was nothing like civil war in Ukraine until Russia invaded Crimea. There was a Russian-speaking minority that had some entirely legitimate interests in getting Russian as a school language etc., there were some discussions, but it was a completely peaceful coexistence situation without violent conflicts, without anything to remind of a civil war. I am firmly convinced that both the invasion of Crimea and the subsequent severe involvement of Russia, both with Russian training personnel, Russian arms supplies and Russian military on Ukrainian soil, helped to start what can be called a civil war if civil war is defined as the involvement of Ukrainian citizens on both sides as well. It is true that it is there today, and to a large extent today, not in the civil war that was, but is going on this minute, initiated and orchestrated to a large extent by Moscow. And I am not saying that because there are no mistakes on the Ukrainian side, I am not saying that because there are no major problems with both the democratisation process, the anti-corruption process and also the handling of the Russian minority in Ukraine by Kiev, but I am saying this because if it starts to sneak in as a narrative that this has arisen within Ukraine out of nowhere, then I simply think it is wrong. This was a conflict which, unfortunately, reached what could be called a military and violent state by Moscow's intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403164948	Thanks to the radical rapporteur right in the minute, that was great. There was a brief comment, as you can see. It's sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165001	Thank you. I think there are a lot of good points in Mr. Martin Lidegaard, but he must nevertheless admit that in Ukraine too there has been and is a very rabid nationalist right who has greatly blown the fire, and who has also contributed to the fact that Russian-minded people in Ukraine have, as it were, become very, very fearful and perhaps also for this reason have not responded very optimally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165035	Unfortunately, that is quite correct, and not only with what has been strong nationalist forces in Ukraine, there has been a long time, but, as we might call the fascist parties, they have, after all, received a limited vote, but the forces are there. There is also something equally bad in my optics, and it is, of course, that there is an oligarchy which is almost worse than what is in Russia and which is sitting on an unhealthy mix of economic, political and media power. I do not want to idolise the state of Ukraine either before or after the invasion of Crimea, at all; but I oppose a little if you buy the narrative, the storytelling that what happened was, in fact, that the EU pressed Ukraine to take a conflict with Russia, to which Russia had to respond naturally. At least that's not how I see the course of events that was.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165132	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165134	In fact, I very much agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Martin Lidegaard in that we cannot blame the European Union at least now and here, but what we can blame is that there has always been a dysfunctional Ukrainian society, which is a major, major reason why things have gone wrong. It is not only Russia that has been triggering the failure of Ukraine. This is also the way society has developed since the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165214	I believe that it was President Poroshenko who himself said: we are fighting on two fronts in Ukraine, one east and one against ourselves. There are incredibly many challenges in Ukraine. I would venture to claim that before the escalation militarily, the relationship between Ukraine and Russia was such that there were these minority factions inside Ukraine, but it was also a sister-brother relationship. There is so much in common, so much history, so much also peaceful association and neighbourhood, economic interaction, a wide range of positive relations, mixed marriages, etc. etc., which in my optics filled much more than the confrontations that were then also among the hawks, one might say, on both sides. The fact that it has come to where it has come today had no imagination to imagine ten years ago, and the irony of the whole situation is that Moscow, unfortunately, has succeeded in pushing Ukraine so far away from it, so that it has no imagination whatsoever that it should ever succeed and that it has never been intended to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165332	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165336	I think it is a little bit interesting that any reflection on the role of the European Union, which does not take away any responsibility for what Russia has done, or Russia for its sake, and which does not say anything about the right to impose sanctions on Russia, but is therefore merely a reflection on the role of the European Union. Well, I think it's weird. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who knows the area so well: how could the EU even negotiate with Janukovych? Does Mr. Hawkins stand? Martin Lidegaard and say that President Janukovych was elected by free and fair elections and was a representative of the Ukrainian people? How the hell could you possibly dream of making deals with him? Is it an expression of the democratic mind of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165427	What I reacted to in Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech was that it was unwise that the EU had forced Ukraine to choose between the EU and Russia; it was that passage. I am happy to discuss the actions of the European Union, and they are not always as clever as I should be the first to admit that, but that was the phrase I opposed, because it is vertically wrong. The European Union did not put Ukraine before that election. It is true that if Ukraine chose the association agreement with the European Union, as has been done, then there were a number of demands that followed, including anti-corruption, including the fact that, for example, it was achieved. is about the whole energy sector, getting rid of the oligarchy in that energy sector, including a large number of constitutional reforms, etc. and so on, which would be difficult to reconcile with the association one has had with Russia, and is difficult to reconcile with the doctrine of Russian foreign policy, that one would like to be able to control one's neighbouring countries, including political and economic, on the basis of the trade one has with them. Yeah, in that sense, that's right. And yes, the European Union has negotiated with many people over the years with a view to getting democracy and anti-corruption on the agenda. It is always a difficult balance in relation to who you are negotiating with, but if you have the hope that you can improve the situation in the countries concerned, then you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165552	Then Mr. Søren Søndergaard would still like a brief comment, I can see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165558	Yeah, I pressed and pressed. I think that many of those things, sir. Martin Lidegaard says is interesting. I would very much like to continue the discussion, but this may not be the most obvious place. But the idea that the conflict in Ukraine was what I called the civil war was something that first came with the Russians' marching in, I simply think is not right. There was a dictatorship in Ukraine that was not democratic elections. Janukovych was not elected in a democratic election, the parliament that sat was not elected in a democratic election and the confrontation that arose between different sections of the population. in Maidan Square, among others. with the burning down of the trade union house was things that were an expression of a de facto civil war in the Ukrainian population.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165653	In that case, I do not share that view. Søren Søndergaard does this. So, as I know, there have not been systematic armed conflicts between Ukrainian communities in recent times before this happened. Unfortunately, what happened at Maidan Square is a rather unsolved course of events, that is, what was actually going on, but what led up to it in Maidan Square was at least that a parliament and a President agreed to take a foreign policy step which the President then tore the curtain away from at the last minute, and then there were violent popular oppositions against it, and in this connection there was about one shot. 70 demonstrators. But even that, after all, I would not call a civil war. That is serious enough in itself, but let us not muddle the debate with that debate, which I would like to continue by the way. I do not think it can be said that there was a civil war in Ukraine before the Crimea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165748	With that, we thank Martin Lidegaard. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403165802	After all, this is a debate on the OSCE, and it has become a major Ukrainian debate. But let me just try to tie a loop on it by saying that I think we have to recognise that pressure needs to be put in several places if we are to move on with Ukraine. It is in itself difficult to move on. There is much evidence that there will be a frozen conflict in Eastern Ukraine because there are interests in it. But of course pressure must be put on Russia, because it is Russia that is the main trigger, it is Russia that is the main problem in this, there is no doubt whatsoever that it is. But you also have to look inwards in Ukraine, and when Poroshenko says that we should look at ourselves too, yes, he could start by looking at himself and the extreme right is very unspeakable, very unpleasant and, by the way, militant. I can understand why some of the Russian-minded people are frightened by the way it is proceeding. Well, enough about Ukraine. The OSCE is an extremely important organisation and, above all, at the moment, when a new cold war between the East and the West is being set in motion. In any case, relations between the West and Russia are as bad as ever. After all, the OSCE is a successor to the CSCE, which was part of the Helsinki process in the seventies and which tried to create détente between East and West at that time and in this context had a very, very important role in the process of détente which began and in which Denmark also played a very, very important role, in other words about the Helsinki process and what happened there. Then it became the OSCE after the end of the Cold War, but with what we have seen since then, which was not the end of history, as some claimed to be the case, but which was the continuation of conflicts, it is extremely important that we have an organisation such as the OSCE, which is such an all-European cooperation, in which a large number of countries are involved and where there are not as many competences as there are in the European Union, but where there are opportunities to solve concrete problems by having a way to debate. This is extremely important, not least at the moment. I think it is absolutely pointless to discuss whether it is the European Union or the OSCE that we should be aiming for. It is, after all, like comparing apples and pears; these are two very different things that the two organisations have to solve. I believe that both organisations are absolutely, absolutely essential for our European security, the European Union in its way, the OSCE in its way, and that is why it is very, very important that we both invest in it. Let me just mention two areas on which I attach importance and which are also mentioned in the statement. The first is human rights and what is happening in Turkey at the moment. I think it is a good thing that the government has just mentioned in the statement that this is something that will be emphasised, because what is happening in Turkey is really terrible, especially when it is an ally within NATO, a country that wants to join the European Union. That is why it is absolutely, quite important that the OSCE has a proactive role there. The second is arms control, in which the government has also, if I may say so, taken care to be in a leading position, as is written in the statement, and in which the OSCE has a role to play in this regard, that there is transparency, and that there will be instruments to have greater arms control in relation to the powers in our area. So thank you for your statement. Of course, everything is not perfect; there are things that can be done better, but I think it is important that we on the Danish side have a very clearly positive approach to the OSCE and that we play a rather active role in the OSCE, which is why it is a very important component of Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170246	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, and since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, we have actually reached the point where the Foreign Minister can now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170301	Thank you. And thank you for a very good debate, which, of course, came very much to be about Ukraine, as the audience could notice. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and for their interest in the work of the OSCE as a whole. The debate today has fortunately confirmed Parliament's great interest and support in Denmark's efforts in that organisation as well. The government considers the OSCE to be an absolutely indispensable platform for promoting dialogue and cooperation on European security, a platform that is an integral part of the rule-based international order. Since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea four years ago, we have seen how the OSCE has taken responsibility, and that is good. The OSCE acts as mediator and dialogue makers, both at the negotiating table, via the trilateral contact group, and in the field through the special monitoring mission, the SMM. The SMM is the largest international presence in Ukraine and is the eyes and ears of the international community in relation to the conflict. The situation is being monitored by 700 observers who are putting their lives at risk in the extreme to report on the security and human rights situation in Ukraine. It is an important effort that helps to ensure that the conflict does not escalate further. The OSCE is also an important human rights dialogue forum. When human rights come under pressure, as we have seen in recent years in Turkey, for example, it is raised in the OSCE. Countries that do not comply with their international obligations on human rights are reminded that they are on the wrong track. The OSCE is also a watchdog in connection with the holding of elections in OSCE countries through the election observation missions. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly shall contribute both with election observers and with the management of election observation. I would therefore like to take this opportunity this year to thank the Danish OSCE parliamentarians for this important and important work. Denmark is also giving very high priority to work in the field of arms control in the OSCE. It is important that arms control agreements already concluded are implemented and strengthened, because it is through the arms control agreements that we can promote military transparency and reduce tensions so that we ultimately avoid conflicts. Denmark also supports the so-called structured dialogue in which OSCE countries discuss threats and discuss how best to look at each other's armed forces. This is so necessary in the current security policy situation. The consensus-based principle of the OSCE means that decisions taken are formally supported by the 57 member states of the Organisation, which gives the decisions a very strong legitimacy. But the principle of consensus also means, of course, that the way to reach decisions can be both long and difficult. The Government will continue to prioritise the work of the OSCE. We consider it to be an important and indispensable platform for promoting dialogue and cooperation on European security, a work that is so much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170651	With that, we thank the Secretary of State. We go further in the debate, and that is the debate on Baltic Sea cooperation. Are you not allowed to ask questions to the Minister?). Yeah, but then you have to sign up here. I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that it is a very good idea to join us here. But it is clear that Mr. Christian Juhl has never sat up here, so he doesn't know how it is going on. I fully understand that! But if the Secretary of State comes back to the platform, sir. Christian Juhl now the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170730	Sorry to the President, many times even, but I was really surprised that the Minister was so quickly finished. I thought the details I wanted to know about came in the last half of the speech, but it never came. In the past, the government has refused to support the UN ban on nuclear weapons. We have had a debate on this, and the OSCE is precisely helping to create a mood so that there is no need to arm up. That is why I would like to hear: now that both the United States and Russia are developing tactical nuclear weapons, that is, weapons that can be used on short distances and that will become even more dangerous to Denmark if such a war ever happened, how does the Minister see the possibilities here? The Minister himself said at the time when we were discussing nuclear weapons that we would have to see how things were going and then we would have to see how we could play our part. And I hope the Minister has had time to think about it, because I would like to know: how should we try to stop the Russians from developing tactical nuclear weapons, while at the same time telling the Americans not to do so, in order to keep at least what should be said about the voltages at as low a level as possible? 'Cause I'm really scared of those tactical nukes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170844	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170846	As I mentioned, it is of course important that the work that is being done in the area of arms control in the OSCE is something that we give priority and priority to, and we do so too, and it is important that the agreements already concluded are strengthened. Then there are particular questions in relation to what the rapporteur has said. This is something that we have discussed several times in the past, including in the Parliamentary Chamber, and the government's line has not changed either in relation to recent developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170914	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170916	Well, then I'd like to know what the government's line is. So, is the government's line just that you do nothing, or is the government's line, that we really have to do something active to get both sides not to develop even more bestialous weapons of mass destruction?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403170930	Generally speaking, it is a very good idea to have limited the development of it and, in the end, said by an old radical, which I believe had the starting point to be a pacifist and for many, many years ago at least was part of the Radical Left getting rid of all weapons, but the reality is just not like that. The reality is that weapons are needed, also as a deterrent. And we are part of a weapons-bearing organisation, in other words NATO, where we also have cooperation with the Americans, and that is the starting point for the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171005	I am just trying to say thank you to the Foreign Minister, because no one has sneaked into the list of speakers now. We are therefore moving on to the negotiations on Baltic Sea cooperation. It is then a new round of rapporteurs and the Minister will come back in the end. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party, is the starting point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171032	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Minister for his statement, including in the area of cooperation between all countries bordering the Baltic Sea. As everyone knows, there are tensions and disagreements between the European Union and Russia, which is why it is also clear that cooperation in the Baltic Sea requires clear political objectives and agreements. It is therefore positive that the Foreign Ministers of the Baltic States have agreed with each other that it is important to clarify and select a few but important areas on which cooperation should concentrate. In July, a working group will have to put forward proposals on the areas to be targeted, and then it will have to be politically determined which one will then be. In the BSPC, which is the standing committee for Baltic MEPs, we are working on a number of areas across countries. After all, the Baltic Sea itself is a major issue. Pollution is still too high and there is much that can be done both by individual countries and, above all, by shipping in order to make the Baltic Sea a cleaner sea. Unfortunately, it is still the case that a number of cargo ships and cruise ships empty their waste into the water instead of taking it to port where it can be handled correctly and environmentally. Pollution emissions from some of the Russian areas in particular have also been straining the marine environment for many years. Not only birds and fish, but all sea animals suffer from lax waste management. Plastics gradually degrade into microplastics, but it never disappears from the sea. It is therefore our duty to tighten up the rules and, above all, enforcement with regard to throwing waste into the sea. Right now, a working group set up by BSPC is working on integration as a different subject. It is not a form of discussion of the reception of refugees or not, but the attitude of the individual countries is far too different. On the other hand, the aim is to describe challenges and best practice for integration. The working group will meet here in Denmark in June and a mid-term report will be drawn up for the work immediately thereafter. Many workers travel from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland to Germany and to the Nordic countries. It is within the European Union, except of course Norway. And the challenges associated with this are also a recurring topic for political discussions in the BSPC. Not only workers take from east to west, so do a large number of sex workers, most against their own will. This is a matter that the Baltic Council must never let go. We in the Socialist Group will call on the Foreign Minister to hold on to this particular issue, which is of great harm to those women who become part of trafficking in human beings in the sex industry. With these words, the Social Democratic Party joins in the presentation and cooperation in the Baltic Sea region.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171350	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Next in line, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171400	I have to say that the Baltic Council is not exactly the place where I beat my folds, but I will then report as a substitute for Mr. Henrik Brothersen, who has fallen ill. We basically think that in this statement that the Minister has made, there are some good things. The good thing is that you can meet in a more non-committal forum where opinions can emerge. After all, it is not a secret, as has been mentioned several times, and which has been the subject of some sort of controversy and discussion, that the Baltic Sea region has been marked by the whole Ukraine crisis and that it has also blocked meetings of the Baltic Sea Council. A dialogue has now started again, and it is gratifying for us that the political dialogue has been resumed so that we can have an opportunity to discuss matters. Then we can say that there are many fine words here about dialogue, and we are pleased about that. It's always good to be able to talk. From this point of view, I think I will just stop here, so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171544	With that, we thank Mr. Christian Langballe, the substitute, apparently, and I don't mention from where. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403171559	Thank you. Then I don't know if I'm a temp or who's a temp or who's not a temp. But I am certainly the rapporteur for the Left on this point. It is a little special that we spend 5 minutes talking about this point, while at the same time spending 5 minutes on the OSCE and 5 minutes on the Council of Europe and the Nordic Council of Ministers, etc., because this is a cooperation that is not really under way. It is a cooperation which has been put on ice very sensibly in the light of the totally aggressive behaviour that Russia has shown towards, among other things. Ukraine. The situation is, of course, that there has not actually been a specific meeting of foreign ministers since 2013, namely when the whole of the aggressive behaviour was intensified by the Russian side. So on the Left side there is no doubt that we support the whole idea of Baltic cooperation. It was one of those things. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, who started it back in time. It was a very good body for discussing some areas where, hopefully, agreement could be reached, far along the way. But when you have an actor read: Russia is acting in a way that is so far away from democratic rules that move more and more into dictatorial and superpower-like thinking, action, rhetoric, etc., it is quite difficult to at the same time try to maintain such a democratic body as a Baltic Sea cooperation. That is why we will also have to say things as they are, namely that as long as Russia acts in the way Russia does, it is really, really difficult to keep talking to Russia as if it were a normal country. Because Russia is not a normal country. It is not normal to act in the way Russia does. It is not normal for you to go into a Baltic country and kidnap a border officer and then hold him captive for many months before you release him. It is not normal to continue to violate the air space of another country just because you can. It is not normal to commit hacker attacks on like-minded countries, including Denmark. It is also not normal to have troops in three European countries, thus occupying parts of three European countries, Georgia, Moldova and then Ukraine. Nor is it normal to commit poison attacks in the way Russia has done. In this way we can go on and on, and then the question is: what are we going to do on the part of the West against such behaviour? My answer is that somehow we will have to balance it. On the one hand, we will have to fight hard against sanctions and say that action must have consequences, but on the other hand we will also have to reach out to the citizens of Russia, that is. bypassing Putin and the strong men around Putin, and talking to the ordinary Russians and asking them: Is this really the society you want? For my claim, having traveled in Russia many times and actually come a long way, is that this is not what ordinary Russians think. The ordinary Russians really just want the same thing we want, namely that their family can grow up, that there is work and money to buy some things for etc. etc. But because there's this total propaganda machine coming from Putin and his people, who are running hard on it, that the West, that is, us, would like to take away the ordinary Russian, well then they've succeeded in drawing a scare picture of what's really going on. Therefore, my hope is that when we somehow get the Baltic Sea cooperation started up again, because I hope that we do so, we will also get in better contact with the individual Russians bypassing the propaganda filter, and then I think we have a potential that is to feel. So it has to be the relatively brief comments of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172008	This time, sir. Christian Juhl got on the list in time, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172013	Thank you so much. This time I prevented, so if the answer was short, I could make it. I do not know whether international politics is about demonising individuals, as you can then call your giant enemies. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that Turkey is a democratic country with which we are very pleased to deal and cooperate with and are in NATO, and whether it is particularly democratic to throw parliamentarians and journalists into prison, to close newspapers and to pursue people who simply do not agree with people on the parnasse. How much difference is there between Turkey and Russia if we are to take that picture? Could the rapporteur not almost say the same thing about Erdogan as about Putin?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172105	First of all, I can make a small advertisement: I will touch on Turkey in my next speech when we discuss the Council of Europe, so you will be able to hear what the Left thinks about Turkey. However, I would just like to say that I do not actually agree that it is possible to say that Turkey is the same as Russia. Actually, I don't think so. Firstly, Russia is also a concrete threat to Denmark. The way Russia acts with regard to Denmark is without any parallel. Secondly, I therefore believe that this is a very serious situation which we in Denmark have to take seriously. But again, I come back to Turkey in my next speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172141	Well, there was a request from Mr. Christian Juhl is doing well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172147	If you practice, you're gonna be good. I do not think there is complete parallelism either, but there are two people I do not like and two people who have an enormously bad policy, and I would like to support the civilian population in getting a democracy instead of saying it as it is. I would like to hear: has the West strengthened or weakened Putin with the policy that has been pursued towards Putin, also in the Baltic Sea cooperation and in all sorts of other contexts? Have we strengthened or weakened him? I remember that it was not more than 10 years since he stood with his hat in his hand and wanted to join the European Union, stood with his hat in his hand and wanted to get closer to NATO, and his citizens demonstrated on the streets and wanted to overthrow him. When we said, "Get the fuck out of here!" He received support because he had an external enemy, and since then he has had unpleasant support in large parts of his population, probably also a majority if there were free elections. Have we weakened or strengthened Putin with our foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172250	Now I have also experienced in the past that Enhedslisten has a slightly different understanding of history, I must admit, than I have a history understanding, because here too I strongly disagree with Enhedslisten that we should have said no to Russia in this way. On the contrary, it has actually been said by NATO that Russia would like to join NATO. That is also why all the different things were done with the NATO Council and partnership, and I do not know what. And to this day Russians are still away at NATO headquarters in Brussels, as one, we should say, from the time they talked in the 1990s about these ideas. So from the West we have done everything we could to embrace Russia. But what happened after Putin got the presidency the second time? What happened was that Putin suddenly began to revive some of those superpower thoughts, which he may have always had, we don't know. But he started resurrecting them. Then there we are a totally different Russia than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172349	Sir. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172352	It was just 'cause mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen used the wording that Russia posed a threat to Denmark, and that is a very broad characteristic. So I would like to give the rapporteur of the Left an opportunity to qualify it a little. Is that an ideological threat? Is that a democratic threat? Is that a propaganda threat? Is that a military threat? Is that a commercial threat? What is this threat that Russia poses?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172423	Thank you. I believe that Russia is a potential threat to several parameters. In relation to propaganda, we are already experiencing it. That's how I mentioned it myself in jokes about Russia Today and Sputnik News. They also have Danes employed, who are tasked with producing desinformation, disinformation, call it what you want to do about Danish relationships, which have only one purpose. It is to destabilise the West, including Denmark. In terms of security, I believe that Russia is a huge threat. We've affected the hacker attack several times. We know it was Russia that did the hacker attack on the Defense Department. We know that they were the ones who did the hacker attack against Mærsk and so on. etc. In relation to the powerful military construction that is, not least in the Kaliningrad piano, it is also clearly a huge potential military threat to Denmark. It is very close to Denmark. That is also why, unfortunately, we can say, we see the military exercise that Russia is now doing between Danish and Swedish territory, which I also find very, very disturbing. So, all in all, a trend which is currently going the very, very dangerous way in relation to Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172535	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172537	I agree with the latter, but I think that the wording of a potential military threat is not very precise. After all, there are very many countries that pose a potential military threat. According to the Left, is Russia a military threat to Denmark? Is there any idea in the Left that Russia is facing a military attack? Because then maybe I understand the priority that the Left has. I fully agree with the first thing the rapporteur of the Left said about everything about fake news and so on, and that is also why I am so pleased that the government is so keen on public service and to ensure that the Danish people can access the right information and not become easy victims of such things. So I fully agree with that. But does Russia pose a military threat to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172630	That is why I actually deliberately used the term potential military threat. It's not like I think we're gonna see American, sorry Russian tanks... nor American for that matter... in Køge Bay. No one believes that, including myself, but there is a potential threat to others. The Baltic, which is a member of NATO and has a very, very large Russian minority. We have seen before that Putin has used excuses about Russian minorities once he has entered, among others. in Moldova and Georgia. So I deliberately used the word potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172703	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is actually Mr. President. Christian Juhl, who gets to come up here now. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403172717	Thank you for that, Mr President-in-Office. I think it is a sad and thin chapter, but that is probably what covers reality. I dream that we had a government that was offensive and formulated its views on nuclear weapons, for example. said: Our stated objective is that the Baltic Sea should be nuclear-free and we will not accept that nuclear-weapon ships are sailing in our waters. They could also say: we are the ones who want to bring together the Baltic States to develop cooperation in peace and conflict resolution initiatives that could really set agendas. And that we used about half of our military capabilities financially to do that kind of thing. I dream that it was Denmark that said, as we did in 1989 and 1990 and onwards: we will support the NGOs around the Baltic Sea • whether it is cultural people, whether it is authors, whether it is filmmakers, whether it is peacemakers, whether it is philosophers or what it is, as long as we can have international cooperation between countries, including Russia. Then we can make a revolution from below and say that we are good neighbors, we want to live together, we want to act together, we want to be together. Then we could talk about what in the old days, i.e. in the 1980s, was called the sea of peace, that it should be a nuclear-free area, that the North should be nuclear-free, all the ideas that were so sustainable in so broad a range of people then. Then we could have Baltic cooperation, which could be used to prevent wars and crises around the world, and one would look up to us and say: How the hell are you doing this? No. Instead, Putin is looking to have an external enemy, and instead the Danish government is looking to find an enemy. And if there isn't one, you could blow yourself up to say they're a potential military enemy, because then we have someone to look at when we need to spend even more dead money on dead military. I think it is a sad and pessimistic and defensive Baltic policy that we are pursuing from Denmark. We have all the opportunities in the Nordic Council, we have all the opportunities in the Baltic Sea cooperation, and we can even support it in the OSCE if we want to, because that is the good thing about this debate between the three organisations. In the climate field, we could do a lot of things together. We could clean up the dirty Baltic Sea, which is where we could stop pollution, we could develop green production and so on. etc. We could make welfare societies all around. We could develop democracy, we could support the trade unions where they feel bad. There are very, very many opportunities to do something good instead of writing that we have some intentions about some statements. Why are we not concrete? Why don't we try to make a plan? Why aren't we offensive? Why doesn't our foreign minister travel to our neighbors and say, "Hey, why are we so visionless?" Couldn't we try to lift it? Then Russia, the tiny country over there, would be forced to follow us, that is, if we did something offensive. I have a few questions. One is about Belarus. It's not going well, but both the EU and the Nordic Council... I will return to that... but Denmark too believes that democracy in Belarus is doing better. I have been visited by some trade unionists here recently, and I should like to say that things are not going any better. Even Danish trade unionists are being held in prisons over there because they visit other trade unionists. That is why it was a mistake, for example. Dropped the support for grass roots in Belarus. That is why it is a mistake for us to call down the exile university in Lithuania, and indeed it is completely closed, with the Danish voice. I would like the Foreign Minister to tell us a little about how we can break out in those countries where we think there are problems, so that we grab the grass roots, cooperate with them, support them and do what we did in the old days. For a number of years I have been helping to keep the Baltic Sea strike across countries in critical situations of peace and disarmament, where there were hundreds of grassroots roots from all countries. Those are the sort of things that set us straight, those are the sort of things that cause debate, those are the sort of things that create faith in it. All that stuff about ministerial meetings, reports and declarations of intent doesn't move very much. That is the second, the popular work that moves something and forms the basis for us to move forward with human rights, with peace, with conflict resolution and with cultural cooperation that can bear something in the future. I would like to call for that, and then I would like an answer to that question about Belarus. But I would also like to know why the Danish Government voted to close the Nordic Council's grassroots office in St. Petersburg was an office where we tried to support democratic forces in Russia. It was closed because you wouldn't be there anymore. Most grass roots say it will still be possible, but it is closed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173245	Thank you. There is one brief comment, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173254	Thank you. I have to admit, I don't quite understand the Enhedslisten. Because the Enhedslisten says the government is trying to demonize Russia. But will the Enhedslisten not consider that Russia is the aggressive party, also against Denmark; that Russia is making the hacker attacks, as I mentioned earlier; that Russia is making simulated bomb attacks against Denmark; that Russia is making a military build-up in Kaliningrad with missiles that can hit Denmark, expectably also with nuclear missiles that can hit Denmark, with a total military build-up, also throughout the western part around St Petersburg etc., also potentially in relation to making attacks in the Baltic Sea? It was not something that NATO started with; it was something that Russia started with. So all that NATO has since come and done, including Denmark, is, after all, a response to the aggressiveness we have seen from the Russian side. You can turn it around and say: If Enhedslisten doesn't relate to it it's fair enough that you don't want to, it's so obvious that you don't want to deal with it, but if you finally do it, and let's hope that you do it. Is it just turning your cheek?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173402	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173404	Thank you. On the contrary. That is why I tried to say: let us try to take initiatives that are conflict prevention, conflict resolution, which can build cooperation instead. Let's just say it was the Russians who were the first, but I think it's a question of the chicken or the egg. Because if we go back to the Cold War, we can see that we had that eternal discussion about the decade after the decade, who was the first, and each time some took a step and some took a step, and then you can say that they took turns taking it. That is why I say that it seems that the Danish Government needs a demon they can look at and then say that he is dangerous, because then you can rust up. I think that is also the case, because it has its own inertia, and that is why I would like some politicians who had the courage not to turn the other cheek, but to be offensive in some alternatives called conflict resolution, a discipline forgotten by most politicians and most academics in this country, because one believes that there is one dimension: if there is a conflict, we send the cavalry, that is probably the best and the safest. This is the last thing you need in a conflict, that is, violence. The first is dialogue, and sometimes there are a lot of opportunities that we never use. That is why I object to the foreign policy we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173520	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173522	The rapporteur then says that the government says that Putin is dangerous and that you need a demon. Well, is Enhedslisten that Putin isn't dangerous? Because then I have to admit that all the facts stop here. But does the Enhedslisten not recognise that Putin is totally dangerous for everything that is reminiscent of stability and peace in Europe in relation to all the things he does, including in his own country? Or does Enhedslisten's rapporteur think Putin is fine enough and that perhaps we can even make some conflict resolution game with him, and then everything goes much better? I have to admit, I'm puzzled here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173600	My big dream is that we will have a cooperation that will make Putin redundant. I guess there are 40-50 pieces of Putin's kind around the world, I guess, with different shades. There are none of them I think should sit where they sit, and they can potentially be dangerous in many ways. You can start swinging up like that and say that they are doing misinformation, but if I were Russian, I would think that I also thought that Denmark is doing misinformation about Russia. That is the art of being a politician at the level that our Foreign Minister should be, that is to say to be dialectical and to be able to see why the opponent thinks as he does, and not just say: well, he looks probably dangerous. It's surface thinking, and we'll never get out of that spiral up with the military unless we use the dialect to understand other people, not to like them, but to understand them and then move on in that way between people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173654	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173714	Thank you. After all, the Baltic Sea region has not been more geopolitically relevant for many years than it is right now, and therefore it is also very sensible to try to ensure political dialogue on the area and create trust between the Member States in the Council. However, we have heard how the Baltic Sea Council of Needs, one might almost say, has chosen to focus its forces on anything other than the elephant in space, which is Russia. Although there are many sensible things going on, the reason for which I do not wish to question them is, of course, the most important of all to re-establish a political dialogue on the important things in the Baltic region, that is to say the elephant in space, Russia, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance naturally support the Danish participation in the Baltic Sea Council. We hope that the ministerial meeting proposed by Sweden, which is currently holding the Presidency, will be held in June. It is true that what is being said is that political dialogue and joint cooperation on future Baltic cooperation are the most important thing, but all parties must of course want to do so. But we certainly welcome the statement now before us and hope for the best for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173847	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments right now. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403173856	Thank you. If you're going to be so tough, the most exciting part of the statement is that you're going to have to look at a new vision for the Baltic Sea region, and I think that's really important, because of course we should use this cooperation body for something. However, I fully agree with the government that we need to find some very central areas in which to do this cooperation and also find the core of where the possible areas of cooperation are with the situation that is now with Russia. That is why I would like to suggest to the government that one hundred per cent of the emphasis be placed on the work that comes from this vision group, and in sustainable cooperation, to clarify how we create a sustainable region around the Baltic Sea, how we get the work done to clean up the Baltic Sea, how we actually try to show the way for other countries close to each other, how they can work together to create a sustainable region. In fact, I believe that this will be extremely important for us who live in the region, that is, if we get more work done on sustainable fishing, preserve our natural resources, clean up, but I also believe that it will help to create the intercultural dialogue, which is of course so important if we are to move forward, because right now it is not with Russia that we have to stand and have the great intergovernmental cooperation here, no, but if we work through sustainability with our natural resources and can create relations between peoples, it may also be that we can change something at the other levels in the long term. So my call is actually about to go to the work that comes when there are some proposals from this vision group, and it's about how we turn the Baltic Sea region into a sustainable region that can also show the way for other regions of similar kinds around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174057	Thank you to the rapporteur. It seems that we are continuing rapidly in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174106	Thank you very much, President. Yes, as several rapporteurs have said, Baltic cooperation is a cooperation that has been challenged for obvious reasons. There has been a policy of security in those who are deeply distrusted by several of the states around the Baltic Sea and, although I fully agree with the many good intentions of several rapporteurs, I must also say that it is realistic to say that the conditions for cooperation in the Baltic Sea region are incredibly difficult. Let us just take a nearby example, which is so much about the Baltic Sea, namely the new North Stream 2 gas pipeline, which, after all, on all possible levels of leadership and edges, both politically, security policy, economical, environmentally, shows how great a contrast there is. But it is clear that in principle we will still be able to use the forum now available to do what might be called the policy of the outstretched hand. We are among those who believe that we need to have a firm hand with the Putin regime, but we are also those who also say that it is important to have an extended hand with the Russian people, and to the extent that the whole Baltic Sea cooperation can be used for cultural exchange, student exchange, like cooperation in the climate and energy sectors in the sustainable area, that makes a great deal of sense. I believe that the Danish side, with surgical precision, must select the area or two, three areas where one can make a difference and try to convince both our friends in the Baltics, the Nordic countries and the rest of the countries where there is potential for all parties. However, I also believe that we will have to reconcile expectations with the Danish people, that it is hardly here that we can solve the very great challenges that cooperation in our region is unfortunately bringing to bear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174309	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. I'm sorry, there's one brief remark, I just missed it. Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174319	I'd like to talk about that elephant in the room. If we are to look at the cooperation that we have with our closest neighbours, which is the Baltic Sea, and then use our experience, then the rapporteur from the Radicals said: like with a firm hand. I understand that they must at least know that there are limits and that we have military, and what do I know? When have we knocked down a despot or dictator by threatening militarily, or how many? And how many have been overthrown because the people and the grassroots have developed democracy and demands for human rights from the bottom up and thus set aside the despot and the dictator? I think it is a fundamental issue when we discuss this on foreign policy and when we discuss how to develop cooperation on the Baltic Sea, for example. At the moment, we spend a lot of effort flying together and having military exercises together and things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174421	As it may be, sir. Christian Juhl knows, from a radical point of view, we have advocated that enough money is being spent on the military, and that we are happy with it and we are, I would like to make it quite clear that NATO currently has quite a superior military capacity, because I think that is absolutely necessary, but I am not sure that it is going from spending 19 times as much money per year on military to 20 times as much money, in itself, represents the big difference in relation to Putin's Russia. So far I agree, but that one has to have a defence that can and must do something, I have to say also my opinion. Otherwise, however, my rapporteur's speech was precisely about trying to strengthen civilian ties with the Russian people and grassroots. Having said that, I would like to ask but it is a long story: what broke the Soviet Union in its time? I therefore agree that this was not the military superiority in itself. I'm not sure that was the pressure from below either. I believe that it was a model of society in Europe that was far superior to the planned economy and, in the long run, the peoples of the East would not be looking at a life that was so much less democratic, economically, well-being than that of their neighbours in the West. As far as I am concerned, it was European cooperation that won the Cold War if we are finally to try to talk with a little simple terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174549	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174551	Then I think we are coming to an agreement, except for whether we should be 19 or 20 times stronger than the Russians militarily. It is of course not difficult to be, because in principle they are a mini-put state in relation to large military constellations. But in Russia, it was the people's demand for more democracy and, as such, the people's demand for a better life that gave them a different system. In the GDR the government was overturned by the demands of the people, raised in the community, in discussion forums and circles with the demand for democracy first and foremost. It wasn't the role of the West. I know that some people have undertaken to say that we were the ones who got the wall overturned, and we were the ones who got the Soviet system overturned. That's not true. It's the people from below. That is why I believe that we should use the part of the radical rapporteur's speech that is about people-to-people cooperation and to make democracy and human rights grow from below, and not focus on whether we are strong enough to be a threat. It does not matter; it may even have a counterproductive effect on a dictator to have such a threat from outside that he can keep his people down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174702	The challenge of Russia's military is, of course, the willingness of the current Russian regime to use their weapons, especially in relation to unspeakable civilian populations in Syria, Ukraine and everywhere else. That is what is frightening and so, of course, is very different from the way we deal with military conflicts. However, I think that we should be too simple to follow up on major, complex historical events. I would just like to say that I also believe that strengthening the democratic forces and grass roots in Russia and, incidentally, all our neighbouring countries that have problems with totalitarian regimes is a very, very important part of our foreign policy, also under the auspices of the Baltic Sea Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174749	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, why it is the Minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403174800	Thank you for that, and thank you for the debate and comments, which, of course, illustrate that this is an important piece of advice on the one hand, which has very great potentials in it, but also an area where much political work is underturned at this time. All the comments that have been made will, of course, be part of the government's deliberations when we discuss, together with the other Member States, the follow-up to the forthcoming report by the Wise Men on the future of the Baltic Council. I am also pleased to sense broad support for the main priorities that the government has set for this work and which are also set out in the statement. It is also my concern to emphasise and to say that if we fail to reach agreement on a radical reform of the Baltic Sea Council, it will be uncertain what the future of the Baltic Sea Council should be. The Baltic Sea Council is a forum for political dialogue. In addition, the Baltic Sea Council played a confidence-building role in the region. It is precisely in the current situation, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, where the region is facing major challenges, that political dialogue and confidence-building are of course important, and from the Danish side we have therefore also thought it important to highlight the need for these things. One thing, though, is that we can all agree on objectives, and another is that we agree to translate the objectives into action, and unfortunately we are not yet there. We are, among other things. not because of the Baltic resistance caused by the Ukraine crisis. The government will maintain pressure for a resumption of political dialogue. Sweden, as the country holding the Presidency, has proposed to hold a meeting of Foreign Ministers in June with a view to political dialogue, but also to discuss the work of the Group of Wise Men and to give some guidance on the further discussion of the report's recommendations. On the Danish side, we actively support the holding of a ministerial meeting, but again it is uncertain whether agreement on this can be reached among the Member States. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175011	Thank you, Minister. There is just one brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175019	I put two questions to the Foreign Minister. They were about why the Danish government was positive about closing in the exile university in Lithuania to Belarusian young people who are not going to the university, if they are against the so-called President over there, who has enormous support, at least in his elections, and why we helped draw the Nordic Council's office in the former Leningrad, now called Saint Petersburg, a place where we could support people who work for human rights and democracy in Russia. The third question is: why has the annual meetings with the opposition from Belarus in Lithuania been postponed? I have participated for three years in the meetings they are quite fruitful, but they have been postponed this year. Is it because it seems that dialogue with the opposition in Belarus does not provide anything, or why?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175124	I think I will have to come back with the attempt to respond to the questions relating to Belarus, which are slightly outside the elements that I at least imagined today's discussions to be about, but I would very much like to come back to answer the specific questions about Belarus. From the government's point of view, it is important that we use the Baltic Council as offensively as possible. We need to deal with the process that is under way in connection with the report of the Wise Men. What was pointed out by the rapporteur in relation to supporting civil society, I also think is entirely within the framework of what is the government's objective. The situation is just today very much marked by the situation that other rapporteurs have also mentioned: the aggressive behaviour of Russia, which is contagious on other neighbouring countries, and also their motivation and desire to support active work. The government's position is that we want to have the meeting of Foreign Ministers that Sweden has taken the initiative to do. Whether it's going to happen, I'm not sure yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175239	Thank you. The questioner does not want to make use of his second brief remark, so thank you to the Minister. We shall then proceed to the next area, which is the debate on the Council of Europe, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175259	Thank you. At any rate, it is quite timely to talk about the Council of Europe, where Denmark currently holds the Presidency, and it must be said that we have this in a turbulent time, because, as we have already talked about, we are experiencing a warlike and aggressive Russia. We are also seeing Turkey in the Council of Europe turning more and more away from democracy and human rights, and I think we can also see a development in Azerbaijan in particular, where, in addition to continuing unacceptable violations of fundamental human rights, which in my view may ultimately mean an exclusion of the Council of Europe, it actually seems to have paid off more European politicians, including members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. When, in addition, the Parliament of the Parliamentary Assembly has seen that we had to remove a President, Pedro Agramunt, not least because of a joint strong Danish and Nordic effort, among others. Because of his Russian-organised and paid visits to and with President Assad in Syria, all of this says something about the Council of Europe, and thus our largest European community, being under the greatest pressure since its founding more than 60 years ago. Of course, Denmark cannot resolve this during the six months that we hold the Presidency, but we can help to maintain a clear and consistent line of action in which we stand on the fundamental values and rules of the game that apply to the work of the Council of Europe. This means that Russia must have consequences when annexing the territory of another country, in which the Parliamentary Assembly decided in this context to remove the Russian delegation's right to vote in parliament. This also means that it must have consequences for Turkey when, in the context of a continuing state of emergency in the country, there is a massive violation of human rights and freedom of the media, which has also meant that the Parliamentary Assembly has decided to put the country under full monitoring again. Both these countries are now trying through what I would call simple blackmail by withholding or cutting their quota contributions to the Council of Europe with what is equivalent to 13%. the Council of Europe's overall budget, to force the Parliamentary Assembly to stop criticism and pressure on the countries. Here it is important that we stand firm together, because of course the Council of Europe cannot be bought. Denmark must therefore also maintain a clear and critical line towards the course in both Russia and Turkey, and at the same time we must continue to press for improvements in human rights in Azerbaijan, which is currently subject to a special investigation by the European Court of Human Rights. Corruption charges against Azerbaijan, which perhaps include, as I said, several Members of the Parliamentary Assembly, must also be examined in depth, and here too a joint Danish delegation, in strong Nordic coordination, has had a firm and clear position, namely that it must be completely cleared up and that there must be completely cleaned out, if there is anything to clean up, because such cases represent a totally unacceptable burden on the work and reputation of the Council of Europe. The priorities for the Danish Presidency have been particularly concerned with improving the work of the European Court of Human Rights, a process which has actually been going on for a long time and which deals with how to ensure a better organisation of the work of the Court of Justice, how to ensure the best division of labour between the European Court of Human Rights and national courts, and that there is a common consensus between Member States and courts on the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights. This is an important and relevant discussion which, as I have said, has also been in progress for a number of years and in which important steps have been taken, particularly in the area of organisation, to reduce the number of pending cases before the Court of Justice. P.t. So this is 62 800 cases, which is a decrease of 21 per cent. in relation to the past, because the reforms have meant that, in the judgment of the Court of Justice, among other things. has been able to settle as many as 12,000 cases at once. Therefore, there is also reason to hope that the Danish Presidency will be able to conclude with a so-called Copenhagen declaration, which will create a stronger common understanding between the Member States and the Court of Justice, and which will further improve the functioning of the Court of Justice. That would be a fine conclusion both to the speech here and to the Danish Presidency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175831	There are two comments which are too short, so that the rapporteur remains standing. The first is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175849	Thank you. We are faced with a fairly severe threat right now to the Council of Europe's ability to lift its mandate, namely the threat that comes from Turkey and Russia, which are withholding their financial contribution to the Council of Europe, and that is quite considerable amounts which can, like it, pull the curtain away under the Council of Europe as a human rights institution and its ability to carry out its task. And that is what is being done to force the Council of Europe to relax its criticism of the human rights violations in these two countries. And I would just like to hear from the Social Democratic Party whether it thinks that the Danish Government has done enough to highlight the need for the Council of Europe not to bow to this pressure, but to secure funding in other ways, for example by other Member States increasing their contributions, where Denmark could also take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403175949	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I am in agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Nikolaj Villumsen in that it is a form of extortion that we are experiencing here, where by removing what is overall equivalent to 13%. The Council of Europe's entire budget seeks to put an end to the criticism, the clear criticism of the two countries of the Council of Europe. We in the Social Democratic Party have not taken a position on how future funding should be seen with Danish eyes, but I have the view that then we will have to make do with the money that we have and adjust the work to it. Alternatively, there must be a financial reform within the Council of Europe to ensure that the contributions can be covered collectively, so that the work of the Council of Europe can be guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180047	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180049	To those who sit behind the screens and listen, I would say that it is the case that the Council of Europe has a very small budget. In other words, the Council of Europe's overall annual budget corresponds to the EU budget for one day. The Council's budget has not increased for many years, and what we are hearing now is that what the Secretary-General is clearly saying is that you cannot lift your mandate if this money from Russia and Turkey is not paid or replaced with other money. So there I would just like to call on the Social Democrats to help push for the government to focus on this, and hopefully to get other countries to put themselves behind financing as well. Otherwise, the Council of Europe will be made extremely weak in the face of economic blackmail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180149	It is clear, and I fully agree with the rapporteur, that if the countries agree that the Council of Europe must take up a certain mandate, then the Member States must also ensure that the necessary economy is available to carry out that task. And, of course, it is quite natural that Denmark, as a country holding the Presidency, also helps to lift that discussion in the Council. In the light of hindsight, we can only look at what is particularly the situation in Turkey, where they have made an additional contribution to the Council of Europe, which they then remove again when pressure comes against them. It is also important to consider whether to accept this type of additional contribution, unless it goes to a set of activities or areas of action and is secured over a longer period of time, so that it cannot simply pull the curtain away from the Council's activities overnight.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180244	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180246	Thank you. I think we have a dilemma which I would ask the Socialist rapporteur to address, namely the dilemma that lies in the fact that, on the one hand, we must, of course, do something with Russia, with Turkey, with Azerbaijan and with others who are seriously violating human rights. However, what can be done in the Parliamentary Assembly, or the utmost weapon that can be used in the Parliamentary Assembly, is to exclude Members of Parliament. Then, on the other hand, when it comes to Russia, perhaps we can say: Ahr, there may not be so much opposition, and perhaps it is much of the same. But if, for example, we do. If Turkey takes it, then it is true that all right, some of them are already in prison, but there is a small opposition group that gets to be there in the Turkish Parliament. And if the Turkish parliamentarians are excluded from being present in the Council of Europe because of the Turkish regime's abuse, then they are also excluded from being present in the Council of Europe, whereas those who actually have power in the governments are still sitting and negotiating with Turkey. Well, I just wanted a reaction to that dilemma.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180359	It is clear that this is a dilemma, but it is not a real dilemma that we have with Russia and the Parliamentary Assembly, because they are not excluded. We have deprived them of their right to vote, but they can appear and be present and speak in the Parliamentary Assembly if they so wish. They will not, probably because of the sanction. But I agree with Mr. Søren Søndergaard in that although we must have a clear line and this must have consequences such as: in writing. - (FR) The withdrawal of the right to vote, or the fact that we put Turkey under surveillance, when countries violate the absolutely fundamental values and principles of the work of the Council of Europe, we also have to try to have a dialogue with the countries that hopefully enable us to keep them within the Community and to hold them to the common values that we stand for. So this is a consequence that must be accompanied by an opportunity for dialogue, which I believe we must also pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180500	Søren Søndergaard for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180502	Yes, but the problem is that those we hit in the first place, as it were, are those who may be least responsible for it. I am thinking, of course, of the fact that we are living at a time when we are seeing more and more authoritarian regimes in Europe, where we are seeing regimes that make it very difficult for the opposition to make themselves felt in elections, not necessarily excluding them or imprisoning them as in Turkey, but simply setting up the electoral system so that they are in power. We can look at Hungary as an example which has also been strongly criticised by the Council of Europe. And there it is, of course, about how we think of an idea that means that the first ones we hit are not the parliamentarians with whom we actually have an interest in discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180549	Well, we have to see the country hit when they do something wrong, but in the context of the European Council, that does not mean that you exclude MEPs from taking part. They are still there and you have the opportunity to have a dialogue with them. That they then choose not to show up, and that Russia, among other things, chooses not to show up. If we opt to withhold our quota with major economic consequences, then it is a matter that does not make dialogue easier. I just have the attitude towards it and the Social Democratic Party takes the view that we need to be consistent with the countries. But, of course, there must also be openness to dialogue so that we can hopefully get people back in the fold if they stand up for the values on which the Council of Europe is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180641	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403180652	Thank you for the floor, President. The debate on the Council of Europe is a relatively double one, given that we in the delegation have been relatively agreed to solve the challenges and problems with a single voice. But I would also like to say that in this session we have seen what we might call an absurd theater with regard to Agramunt and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. I have to say that the way this has been done has been quite marvellous and rather dilettantic. We've solved that. Then we have the Danish Presidency, which has taken place with pomp and splendour. So, Crown Princess Mary spoke in the plenary hall in Strasbourg, it was marvellous; the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke finely and well; DR's choir sang the tones of the home country so beautifully, so beautifully that one became soft at heart. And then there have been the practical and political issues that have been crucial to us: the Prime Minister's promise to the government to take a hold on this so-called dynamic interpretation. There will be other things that could be addressed in this context: corruption, the conflict with Turkey, the conflict with Russia, Azerbaijan, etc. etc. I really think it is interesting when you sit down there to observe that many of the conflicts that are going on are actually national conflicts in a council that should take care of individual rights. However, just to say something about the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, I would like to say that it is such a form of sacred Trinity where, first of all, the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights determine Danish legislation to such an extent that I think it is difficult to imagine the extent of it for ordinary people. This also applies to foreign and refugee policy. I would say that it is very difficult to take part in negotiations on austerity without a politician, a civil servant, a minister or someone else waving one's nose with the remark: 'We cannot do that because of the European Convention on Human Rights, or because of our international obligations'. One of the problems has been that the provisions of the Convention are constantly moving because the interpretation of the Convention is constantly moving. What happened yesterday does not necessarily apply tomorrow. What was true when the text of the Convention in the European Convention on Human Rights was written does not necessarily apply today. It is therefore very opaque what is actually applicable, which for me is a separate problem. Because if an interpretation constantly changes and has a new meaning, one must be a lawyer or expert in order to be able to find the head and tail of what interpretation is now applicable. I believe that it must be a provision for every community of law and a right for everyone that individuals can go in and study individual cases, where the legislation is transparent and transparent and one can find out why there is a judgment and why the text is the way it is. Then there is what is at the heart of our people's rule. We are used to the fact that vital issues relating to our internal affairs in Denmark, which affect Danish citizens in their everyday lives, are decided by the people. Here again I would like to return to foreign policy, which I actually believe is vital for Denmark and the Danes, because it affects Danish society. Therefore, it should also be the Danes themselves who decide what foreign policy should look like. There I simply believe that the European Convention on Human Rights is constantly standing in the way of our right to self-determination. It is with applause from this that the government announces a dispute with the so-called dynamic interpretation practice. My question to the government is then whether the government's efforts have given way. This could be an opportunity for the Foreign Minister to respond to this today, when we have the debate on the Council of Europe and, of course, the Convention and the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181207	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two comments which have been made briefly, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181213	Thank you. If we look at the situation in Turkey, it is very clear that Erdogan's Islamist regime, like it, increases repression in that country. We also have a study right now on whether a sticking line has been established for Danish citizens with threads into the Turkish embassy and this is being investigated. There is therefore a danger that Erdogan's oppression will actually spread to us here in Denmark. When I raise that question, it is of course because it is something that worries me a lot and I would like to hear whether the Danish People's Party really regrets that the Danish People's Party in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe voted in such a way that we in the Parliamentary Assembly were prevented from having a debate on the situation in Turkey and put the country under full supervision or supervision, as it is said, prior to the referendum that Erdogan had written out. I think it is relevant because it was assessed by people who knew it, that it moved 3-4 per cent. in the referendum to Erdogan's advantage. So has the Danish People's Party regretted that in this way Erdogan was kept under control so that he was spared criticism from the Parliamentary Assembly prior to the referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181340	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181341	Well, I don't think you can say that. We assessed it in relation to the situation that existed at the time and our balance of this has been ■ and I think the rapporteur also knows that we do not necessarily believe that we should interfere in everything Turkey is doing, because it is an independent country and the dispute that may be is an internal matter in relation to the Turks. They're gonna have to make a fight with Erdogan. I think that must be the direction in which it turns. If, at some point, we have started to support monitoring of Turkey, as I think the rapporteur knows we are doing now, then that is an assessment of the situation. But it is clear that these two things weigh here. If I had to say something about Turkey's influence in Denmark with regard to the monitoring of resident Turks, etc. It is clear, and so on, that this is also a domestic problem. It is also a national problem. I would certainly say so. If a head of state intervenes in the lives of other citizens in the way I have the feeling that Erdogan is doing so, I certainly believe that this is also a national problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181500	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181501	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe says that it must be a question for the Turkish opposition to oppose Erdogan. And they did so to the extent that they could even do so if they were not imprisoned for being against him before the referendum. But I think it is relevant for the Danish Parliament and for the Danish people to know why the Danish People's Party took the rather violent step of preventing the Parliamentary Assembly from having the opportunity to discuss Turkey. Because that's what they did. The vote was taken so that we were prevented from discussing the situation in Turkey and therefore also from taking a decision to monitor Erdogan. Because it was a gigantic gift to the Islamic President of Turkey, and one should then be able to explain why such a radical decision was taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181557	It was for the reasons I have just given and the fact that we have then voted in favour of monitoring Turkey. I do not know whether it has gone over the head of the questioner, but we do. Well, we can argue about hair in the soup with regard to the story that is about what has happened. We had that assessment at the time, and as the policy moves and the reality moves, it is clear that then the view moves too. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181626	The next brief remark is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181629	I would actually like to ask the whole question of principle, after hearing the rapporteur's speech, whether the Danish People's Party would rather be the whole of the European Court of Human Rights besides, that is to say, that we would have a better situation if we simply closed international agreements and rules in the field of human rights and removed the court. Would we be better off?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181659	I am very, very critical of the dynamic interpretation practice that is used because it moves so much that it actually moves to unrecognizability and then you can ask: why did it end up right there? That is because someone then interpreted it that way and so on. etc. But what I really think is problematic is basically that one has the dynamic method of interpretation, because at some point it has been agreed that the European Convention on Human Rights is eternal and unchangeable. What political document is it, eternally and without change? Why is it that the European Convention on Human Rights was created from a post-war picture, from 1950 onwards? Is that the same picture today? No, not necessarily. Why, then, is it that there are no things that can change, and why cannot the legal basis itself change? I believe that political contractual documents should be able to change. So if that was just what we had as a basic premise, I certainly believe that much had been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181815	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181817	I agree, however, that reality is changing, and that is why it is necessary to reinterpret, as it were, the principles of the Convention. That is precisely what the so-called dynamic interpretation is all about: trying to take the principles that were at the time of the Convention and modernise them as the world changes. And I think that is a perfectly legitimate political discussion if you think it is going somewhere wrong. I will not dispute that at all; I will come back to it in my rapporteur's speech. My question was more of a matter of principle: does the Danish People's Party think that we were better placed today by simply dropping the European Court of Human Rights and international cooperation in the field of human rights, because that impression could be given when you hear both the rapporteur today and the debate going on out there. I think that would be nice for the public to know, i.e. whether, in principle, one would prefer to see it all dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181910	Well, now I'm dealing with reality and not with some thoughtful example. What I am starting from is the conditions that apply to the European Convention on Human Rights, as it is intended and as it is put into practice. I just have to say that I simply think that there are some things that have gone wrong, but that is the very basic relationship that was put into it at the time, namely that the convention is eternal and unchangeable and can never be changed about it, which means that Levakovic can stay here because he has the right to a family life. I do not think that is what was imagined at the time when this convention was conceived, that is to say that Article 8 should be interpreted in that way. And that's the answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403181959	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182008	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Minister for a very fine statement on the Council of Europe. And as the Socialist rapporteur and vice-chairman of the delegation, Mr. Mogens Jensen, also mentioned, is of course right at the moment, because Denmark holds the chair of the Committee of Ministers. And it has really been an eventful year. We have been discussing a lot of things, and there is plenty to do that you could spend half an hour on. I do not want to do that; on the other hand, I will try to address some of the very, very important issues. The first is, of course, the whole question of the reform of the Court of Justice. We in the Left have clearly stated that we believe that human rights are a fundamental right which all European citizens should be happy to have. Because that's one of them. • to ensure that European citizens have minimum rights, including the right to vote and to stand as candidates; in countries such as Russia, Turkey and Azerbaijan. At the same time, however, we also have a court that has gone in and made these so-called dynamic interpretations. And that means that if you go in and look at the people's trust in this whole system, you can see a slippery slope in a negative direction. And we have it because there are more and more people in Europe who think that the European Court of Human Rights has gone too far in its interpretations; it has become, as it were, too politicising. We on the Left believe that this is a problem. This is a problem because we actually want an effective court. We want a court that takes into account the safeguarding of these fundamental rights, which was the whole idea when the Court of Human Rights was set up many, many years ago. And that is why, as I said, we are doing this work through the government, and the proposals that have been put forward and which are now being negotiated on the highest keys are also very promising. Because it can help, so to speak, to continue the reform trail that has been implemented through, among other things, the reform process. The Presidency of the United Kingdom and so on. etc. Of course, we don't know what it's gonna end up with yet. One thing is that the Danish Presidency has really worked hard on this and is devoting a great deal of effort to it; another thing is that, of course, it also requires that we get the other 46 Member States on board. And therefore there will be some really high-strong meetings that will take place in, among others. Copenhagen, and which I certainly look very, very much forward to. The reason why we have also had problems in the Council of Europe is, of course, not least Russia's and Turkey's decisions to cancel its payments to the Council of Europe and Turkey, in relation to the fact that they have gone from being a big payer down to being a normal payer in the eyes of the goose. Of course, they do not do so because they have financial problems. No, they're doing it because they're trying to do some kind of blackmail. Both countries have fallen, both countries have become angry because the Council of Europe has gone in and put on its democratic watchdog case. And, of course, there must be a Danish response, that we will not tolerate it; we will not tolerate two relatively large countries going in bigger than the other and trying to push us in the wrong direction. So that means that when Russia now sits in all sorts of different forums, including some that I am sitting in, saying that the only way in which they come back and pay what they have to pay is if they are given special rights in relation to the rules that are today understood that Parliament should not be able to impose sanctions, as it has been able to do for many, many years. In other words, Russia expects that because you are as big a country as you are, you just have to be able to do whatever you want without impunity, without sanctions from the parliamentary assembly. The left is vertical towards the vertical towards the right. Just as we are vertically opposed to the blackmail game that Turkey is playing, and we must not fall for that in any way whatsoever. I will conclude by saying, as always in fact, that as chairman of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly I am very pleased with the good and constructive cooperation we have in the delegation. We are made up of very different parties, but we usually have a very good tone and actually also agree on the vast majority. And I think that's really, really positive. Then, on behalf of the entire delegation, I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the delegation, which is down in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182504	There are just two inscribed for short remarks. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182511	Thank you. I want to address this economic pressure on the Council of Europe as an institution that comes from Russia and from Turkey right now. After all, this is a tremendous pressure which can have major consequences. As we discussed earlier with Mr. Mogens Jensen, there is the possibility of reducing the Council of Europe's budget if this retention of financial resources is maintained. We then hear from the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe that it simply cannot do so. You have cut so much to the bone that if you do, you will not be able to live up to your mandate. The second option is to get the other Member States to throw money into the box so that you are not vulnerable to that pressure. I would just like to hear from the Left whether it was wise for the government not to secure the budget in November against such pressure from Russia and Turkey. After all, it was not possible to use its option as a presidency to do so. What does the Left think should be done here in the final sprint so that we do not become dependent on financial resources from Russia and Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182630	First of all, it is important to bear in mind that the reason why we do not close the budget, so to speak, is that we still keep a door open with regard to both Turkey and Russia. To put it bluntly, if Russia doesn't pay, they have to be thrown out. Those are the rules. If they don't pay within x time, they have to be thrown out. Negotiations are currently under way. It is because they then have to pay, and then they also have to pay retroactively, i.e. understood for the period that has passed when they have not paid. So I think that is very sensible. I also think it is very sensible of the government to say that it is pointless that because two countries are playing this game, the rest of the Member States of the Council of Europe must simply put out on behalf of their taxpayers. I have to admit, I do not support that. If we have to face a situation in which we say that we need to streamline the Council of Europe in the long run, then I also believe that there is a possibility of doing so. The Council of Europe has, it might be said, developed violently in a number of different directions. That is just what the Parliamentary Assembly is looking at, in relation to all the issues we are discussing. This is also seen in the Committee of Ministers, in other words in all the subjects they are discussing. There is enough to address in terms of core values: freedom, democracy, human rights and so on. However, there may not be a need to build up a system, so that you become a sort of mini-EU on everything from sports rights • apology to the Social Democrat rapporteur • to other issues that could be discussed in national parliaments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182755	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182757	Thank you. At any rate, it must be said that, at the economic level, there is a very long way for the Council of Europe to become a mini-EU, when, in one year, you have a budget corresponding to the European Union's budget of one day. But you can say that right now Denmark is in a unique position. The government sits in the chair, and we therefore have the opportunity, as well as the framework in which the Council of Europe negotiates with Turkey and Russia. And it can be said that it is clear that if we have not secured the Council of Europe financially, we are in an enormously bad negotiating position. We all hope that the Russians and the Turks will pay, but their demands are that they go free of criticism. And there, of course, there is a unique opportunity as a presidency. So I would just like to hear why we are not taking up the fact that other countries should step in and ensure that the economy is in place, so that that is certainly not what we are bowing to in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182855-2	As I mentioned in my first round, I do not believe that taxpayers, for example. Denmark must pay for Russia acting in the totally unbridled aggressive way that Russia is doing. I simply do not think so. Then we will have to deal with the situation differently. I'm sitting, among other things. in the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly, on the basis that Denmark holds the Presidency. And I've got myself together with, among others. The United Kingdom has taken the initiative to put the item on the agenda on the economy. We're gonna hold, among other things. an extraordinary meeting of the Bureau on Sundays at the beginning of the Strasbourg week, if you can call it that, where we will also be discussing it here. We're pushing the administration. I do not think that the administration of the Council of Europe has been quick enough to present budgets for a plan B and for a plan C, if you can put it that way. So I can safely promise that the chairman of the delegation has at least done what he could to try to discuss economic common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182951	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403182955	I would really like to ask you all the thought that has been behind the government's approach to the Presidency in terms of dynamic legal perception and interpretation, etc. etc. Sir. Martin Lidegaard and I had a debate, which I shall probably have to take up when the radical rapporteur takes up the platform, but I would also like to give it a little more time here. In my view, there is a serious problem in the fact that the European Convention on Human Rights is claimed to be the guarantor of democratic values, while at the same time the right of self-determination in the national parliaments is drawn out both through the Convention and through the European Court of Human Rights. I simply think there is a contradiction in that and I would like the rapporteur to explain to me what a government-leading party thinks about that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183100	Thank you. As I tried to mention in my speech, I agree that as far as the Strasbourg Court is concerned, it has gone too far in relation to its original idea. By this I mean that, for that matter, the national courts and national parliaments are being pressured by the European Court of Human Rights, and that means that we will have a situation in which the people of Europe are losing more and more respect and trust in the courts, and I think that is very, very worrying. That is why it has been crucial on the part of the Left that we in Denmark have put on this very important driver's shirt so that we can continue along the path of reform. But I also have to say, as I did in my speech, that there are 47 Member States, and we must all agree, and we will not be able to reform from one day to the next. We are going to be able to take some sensible steps and hopefully also some great sensible steps in the right direction, but I do not think we are going to be able to achieve it fully under the Danish Presidency. It will be a process that we will be following for some time. However, the process of ensuring that there is a good balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we have human rights and, on the other hand, the national parliaments and courts dealing with their areas are in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183214	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183215	Well, frankly, what I have against the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights is that it short-circuits the people's regime because it removes the right to self-determination from the parliaments in order to be raised in some supranational fora where there are experts, lawyers and all sorts of things. Who knows what's going on in those contexts? That is where I think the basic problem is, namely that the rule of the people is rendered superfluous, and in the context of what we are discussing here, I think it is a contradiction that it is from the real need to support the rule of the people, democracy and everything else that is going to work exactly the opposite. That is the problem, because politicians cannot actually do anything without conflicting with the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183308	However, it is nothing new that countries enter into international agreements and enter into international organisations which make rules that countries must follow and that there are consequences if they do not follow them. We have that in a large number of areas, and we have had it for centuries. In other words, we are a small country, so if we do not want there to be this international legal order, we will just be bullied around by large countries; so we also have an interest in the fact that there is something called international legal order. So I do not entirely agree with the path I hear, Mr President. Christian Langballe is out to go. Maybe I misunderstand something, and then I'm sorry. But I certainly believe that there must be a balance and then we can discuss how that balance should be, but there is what I think the government has put on the lead to ensure that there is a better balance than that which is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183355	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue to speak, and the next is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183404	Thank you. The Council of Europe is a very important and very unique institution. It was created against the background of the violent attacks perpetrated against people during World War II. And on the ruins of World War II, Denmark and nine other Western European countries succeeded in building up the Council of Europe. This was done on the basis of a desire that the atrocities of the war should never happen again. This should be ensured by establishing strong institutions to protect the human rights of citizens, not only in order to safeguard citizens' rights, but also because protection against abuses and safeguarding democratic rights is the best tool to avoid conflict and war. Since then, the Council of Europe has evolved into one of the greatest Danish foreign policy victories. From just ten Member States in the late 1940s, the organization has moved to all the countries of Europe. The only exception is Belarus, which has reinstated the death penalty, which is why it has been excluded from the institution. This means that even authoritarian leaders such as Putin, Erdogan and Orbán in Hungary are bound by the Convention on Human Rights and can be judged by the Court of Human Rights. It gives their citizens rights that they would not otherwise have had. But also in Denmark we can be judged by the Court of Human Rights, and Danish authorities are obliged to ensure the fundamental human rights of the Danes. This has led to a number of judgments, including against Denmark, such as the Jersild ruling, which improved freedom of expression and press in Denmark as a result of a European Court of Human Rights ruling. In other words, we Danes would not have the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press that we have today if it were not for a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights. The Jersild judgment is just one example of rights that we Danes are given only because of Denmark's membership of the Council of Europe and Danish adherence to the European Convention on Human Rights and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. That is why we in the Enhedslist are completely unaware that the Danish Government has chosen to make weakening of the Court of Human Rights its first priority for the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. It is not our view that in a Europe of Putin, Erdogan, Orbán and other crooks in power we need to weaken the protection of citizens' fundamental rights. On the contrary, we believe that we need to strengthen the human rights institutions. Unfortunately, the government does not do so with its attack. It's not something I'm standing here claiming. There are clear statements from Amnesty International, from the former ambassador to the Council of Europe, a large number of prominent human rights experts, the Standing Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and also from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which has rejected the first draft from the Danish Government. I think it is positive that other Member States of the Council of Europe will be watching over the protection of citizens' rights when the Danish Government wants to weaken human rights institutions. For what is it that the Danish Government wants to achieve? Does the Danish Government seriously believe that it is wise to sit around a table with the governments of Erdogan, Putin and Orbán and discuss how to weaken the influence of the Court of Human Rights? Does the Danish Government seriously believe that this is wise? The government's attack on the Human Rights Court is a gift to the despots and a Pandora's box for our all fundamental rights. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank the many governments, citizens and civil society organisations that have spoken out against the government's attacks. Keep up your efforts! Hopefully, it will be possible to prevent the government from weakening human rights institutions at a time of Erdogan, Putin and Orbán, which underlines that we need these institutions more than ever before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183833	There is one more brief remark. Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183835	Frankly, I must confess that I think there were many rhetorical tirades in that attack on the Court of Human Rights and everything else. It is, of course, a serious discussion about how far the court, with its interpretation, should go in relation to the mandate of the court. I have to say, I don't really get the way to go about it. It's an honest thing to be a human rights fantasy and hang under the clouds in this ideal image of how the conventions work, but something else is then the practical reality that we are part of. I do not think it was a victory for anything that, because of the right to family life, Levakovic could not be expelled from Denmark, as was stated in the conventions. I think it was a failure for that convention. I just think you have to think about that, instead of going into those rhetorical tirades. I think we should discuss the substance of how the European Court of Human Rights works. Does it work as intended, and does the Convention work according to what was intended? That is what we are discussing here. And then I would really like to ask the rapporteur what his own thoughts are in that direction, because I really do not think anyone was coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403183959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184000	Thank you. I will then allow myself to begin by reminding Mr. Christian Langballe states that it is not the European Court of Human Rights that has ruled on the case of Mr. Levakovic. These are Danish courts. And I really think it is fair enough that the Danish People's Party is opposed to human rights. It's fine. You have also made proposals here in the Danish Parliament to deprive the Danes of their human rights by printing out the Human Rights Convention of Danish law. That's an attitude you can have. Then we can take up a parliamentary election campaign, whether you want to undermine the freedom of expression of the Danes, or whether you do not want to undermine the freedom of expression of the Danes. We do not want to undermine the freedom of expression of the Danes. The Danish People's Party does so, and it must then be accountable to the electorate. However, in relation to the dynamic interpretation, human rights would be completely useless if they were not interpreted into our time. If we did not interpret lgbt couples' right to family life as a right they have, then we would not have that right today. This is due to a dynamic interpretation that has been carried out by the European Court of Human Rights, and I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184122	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184123	When I include the European Court of Human Rights in this, it is of course because there is a dynamic understanding of the law, which is also contagious, of course also at the Supreme Court. Of course. Well, that's self-evident. I think that is so obvious. But I'd also like to say, hello, man, ax handle. Those were not fundamental considerations. If a particular convention provision develops so far away from its starting point that one wonders where it really came from, then I think that one has a problem if one otherwise honours the principles of the rule of law, namely that the law must be transparent and that it must be applied to citizens. And then the rapporteur can stand up there and bring the rhetorical tirades that we want to deprive the Danes of their freedom of expression and everything else. I just want to say bullshit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184216	It was certainly a very bad answer to the fact that there is a situation in which the European Court of Human Rights, for example in Jersild, has given the Danes an extended freedom of expression and of the press, which, when writing the European Convention on Human Rights, as the Danish People's Party proposes, is deprived of Danish law. You have to deal with that. You can't just answer nonsense like that. But what is happening with the dynamic interpretation? As a newly elected Foreigner, I saw here the second day in the Chamber that the Danish People's Party's Foreigner, Mr. Martin Henriksen, was pleased with the new dynamic interpretation from the European Court of Human Rights, because the dynamic interpretation at the court is moving towards easier expelling criminal foreigners, and therefore the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration changed the law and came up with a bill. So it is just to say that it is a bit crazy for the Danish Government to launch an attack on the European Court of Human Rights, while at the same time developing exactly in the direction that you want precisely because there is a dynamic interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184330	Thank you. Time's up. There are also no further brief comments right now, so the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184349	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss the Council of Europe and the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. There are many major and serious problems for the Council of Europe, which I think all the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, so I will not go into them in detail. Nevertheless, it is positive that Denmark, with the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers, can help set a constructive agenda for the Council of Europe. I can mention the efforts to train young people for democratic citizens. We can certainly all agree on this at a time when extremism and radicalisation are threatening our society and, in fact, the whole of Europe. It makes good sense to put a great deal of effort into this work, and it fits well with the title of the Presidency's programme "Europe in the run-up time' • strong values and a future-proof European Council. The thing I particularly want to take forward is the work that Denmark has put into reforming the European human rights system. You can discuss this subject very lively and very in-depth. I think that one important thing to take forward in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights is that the perspective of the work of the government is that it is very important for the Convention and the Court to retain its legitimacy. I do not think it is a good idea to imagine a world where there is nothing called a human rights convention at all. But of course it is also clear that it must be seen as legitimate. At the moment when many citizens in many countries, for example. If you experience the way you have come to understand the expulsion of criminal aliens, as illegitimate, then it is also necessary that you have some sort of discussion of the dynamic principles of interpretation, and whether a court by being too dynamic or too dynamic, it should be allowed to be a court making political decisions without having a political mandate to do so. It is in such organisations as the Council of Europe that Denmark has the opportunity to show what we are capable of. I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur when he says that it was a very good moment for Denmark and Danish foreign policy when we helped to make the Council of Europe. We benefit greatly from participation and we benefit from the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers, and I look forward, of course, to hearing the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184659	There is one more brief remark. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184702	Thank you. But Mr. Henrik Dahl does not recognise that there have been a number of opportunities on the Danish side to influence the court which have not been used? It is, of course, the case that there is an opportunity to object to the courts before a judgment is given. We have had the opportunity to do so, but we have hardly used it. It is the case that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe elects its own judges. I've been with you many years before. Nikolaj Villumsen has been with us, and I have been with you for a while now. We have never heard from any government that recommended which judges should be elected on the basis of some criterion. The opportunities that have existed have not been used, and then there will be a political situation in Denmark where we need to do something, and then we will, like the whole system, change without having used the funds available. Isn't that a lack of due diligence?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184806	It would be wrong of me and conceited if I stood and said that all previous governments had done everything 100 percent fantastic. It is always debatable whether things should have been dealt with in a different way. But Denmark has, of course, supported other reform efforts that have been in relation to the courts. And this dynamic interpretation is something that is generally discussed in many countries. There is also a constant debate in the United States between Congress and the US Supreme Court on dynamic interpretations. So perhaps you could have done things in a different way than you chose to do, but that should not prevent anyone, for example. I believe that what has now been done is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184852	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184854	No, except that what we risk getting is something that generally weakens the court's ability to intervene in relation to different areas. If we generally abolished the dynamic interpretation, if we imagine that it was, like, the objective, then it would be awful. I'm sure of it, sir. Henrik Dahl fully agrees. It would be a terrible thing to say that there is nothing here about homosexuals, so they cannot be counted when we talk about non-discrimination. In other words, there must be a certain amount of dynamic interpretation in order to keep up with society, of course there must be. That is why I find it strange that we do not use the possibilities that exist and influence where we can influence, by objecting to the court and by choosing the right judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403184942	In fact, I said in my rapporteur's speech that there must be room for dynamic interpretations. As it is, sir. Søren Søndergaard knows that the Constitution refers to a post-, telegraph and telephone secret, and I have no problem with saying that there is also an e-mail secret. It's quite logical that you have this dynamic interpretation. But there may be a point, and this is also known from the division of power in the United States, where it is said that there are now some courts which, according to their best judgment, have gone into the area of legislative power and have made the law without having a mandate for it. So the discussion of what the mandate is for a court is a healthy discussion to have in an active and living democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185026	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185029	Thank you. Well, it is clear that we should be very happy to have a debate on this, but what actually happens, in parallel with the fact that we are dealing with it here, is that there is a bill from Mr. Henrik Dahl's government, put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, is seeking to adapt Danish legislation to the situation that there has been a dynamic interpretation towards the fact that it has become easier to expel criminal aliens. The whole criticism of the government is that the court must not be dynamic in relation to the development of the expulsion of criminal foreigners. Now reality is just that the dynamic interpretation is moving towards making it easier, which is also what the government wants. So I'd just like to hear from Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl: If the government can see that the dynamic development is going the way one wants, why is it continuing this attempt to deny the court's ability to make a dynamic interpretation, i.e. when one really ought to be satisfied with the dynamic interpretation that is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185137	First of all, I'd like to ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen to apologize that I am neither the integration rapporteur nor the legal rapporteur and that it might have some influence on my in-depth knowledge of these things. I do not think there is anyone in the Danish Government who does not recognise that interpretations must be dynamic to some extent, but it is a question of what is the mandate of a court and when a court makes political decisions that it does not have a political mandate to take, and that discussion I think it is very, very sensible to choose to travel, as is the case in other living, sensible democracies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185214	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185217	I think it's me. I think the President said Søren. President Klint): No, I said the questioner). Well, the questioner, okay, then I hear bad. I'm sorry. When I ask, it is because you can say, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned that the government and changing Danish governments before it could have raised objections when choosing judges. Objections could have been made when proceedings were pending before the court. They have chosen not to do so, and then the presidency will be given, and then a general attack is launched on the dynamic interpretation of the court, while at the same time finding out in the Ministry of Justice that this dynamic interpretation is actually moving in a direction that the government is delighted about right now. So I just think that the question arises: have we not slept per hour in relation to using the opportunities that were actually available to influence developments? And is it even wise to make a general attack when what you want to prevent does not appear to be topical at all, as you thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185323	Well, I can't know what future historians will say about changing Danish governments when it comes to keeping their actions against some gold standard of what would have been absolutely the most reasonable thing one could have done. It may not quite meet the gold standard, but the future has not yet come into being. But to discuss when a court exceeds its mandate, so that it actually takes political decisions without having a political mandate to do so, I think is a sensible thing, as is done in many living and sensible democracies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185401	There's one more with a brief remark. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185405	My question is actually prompted by Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, because my view of the conventions and the whole debate is that it is not a neutral battleground, but a political battleground, because when conventions set the agenda as they do, they use the conventions as a political weapon to advance their own agenda, and that is what is happening now. It is said so often about the bourgeois government that it went to the edge of the conventions, but I would actually also say that it has happened on the left side, but only from the other edge, so that things are made politically operational in relation to some ideological perspectives one has, in relation to what one would like to see. I'd like to ask if that's not the way it is. Now the Convention and the Convention provisions and the decisions of the Court are being applied politically, and that is what we are discussing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185502	After all, there is no doubt that conventions are political documents because they have been drawn up and adopted by politicians who are setting up some institutional system which they then undertake to comply with. So they are political, there is no doubt about that. There are other examples, of course, where there are discussions about the way in which the courts conduct themselves. I can mention that when legal politicians discuss how judges fill criminal sentences, there is also a very lively discussion about this because you typically do not go to the top of the criminal framework. After all, we want to have such political discussions because we are dissatisfied with the way in which the other branches of government behave, but again I think it is a political health sign. But the rapporteur is right to say that a convention is a political document.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185549	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185551	I just felt the opportunity to raise the problem, because it is clear that if there is a chance that we can get our policy through, including with the conventions, then we would like to do so, that is not a secret, because that is the way it is. Since it is now the case that conventions, and especially the European Convention on Human Rights, have such a major role to play in relation to, among others. We know that as far as foreigners' policy is concerned, so to speak, we are maneuvering in the waters indicated. I think that is very obvious, and it would also suit the Enhedslisten if they acknowledged the same thing, because it would be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185631	Well, I guess way along the way, sir. Christian Langballe and I agree. The conventions are also designed in such a way that in a large number of the articles they outweigh the rights of the individual in terms of state security, and the whole discussion is a very under-intentioned discussion, which I hope will be given at some point in the future, because that is also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403185702	Thank you very much. When we look back on the past year in the Council of Europe, what we naturally attach ourselves to is that Denmark took over the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Presidency offers a unique opportunity to focus on some important areas and influence the work of the Council of Europe. Denmark must be commended for giving priority to strengthening and promoting work in the areas of equality, the involvement of children and young people, prejudices about people with disabilities and the fight against torture. But unfortunately the rose also stops. When the Council of Europe was founded in 1949, it was for one single purpose: to safeguard human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. However, recent events have taught us that the human rights and freedoms that we enjoy today have unfortunately come under pressure from several sides, not least from authoritarian regimes such as Russia and Turkey and from Hungary. But that they should also come under pressure from Denmark is very difficult to understand and also for our surrounding world. Although the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions in his written statement that Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order, including respect for human rights. In the alternative, we could not agree more with the Foreign Minister. But that is just not what is subsequently reflected in the draft Copenhagen Declaration. There has been a massively justified criticism of the declaration by several sides: human rights experts, law professors, networks of European human rights institutes and several Member States have criticised the draft. The Standing Committee of the Council of Europe, among other things, makes very clear statements on the draft Copenhagen Declaration with this statement, quote: The Declaration calls into question the universality of the rights protected by the Convention, namely the independence of the EMD as being free from political influence, that is one thing; the scope of the jurisdiction of the Court over all matters relating to the interpretation and application of the Convention; that is another thing; the unconditional obligation of the States Parties to implement the judgments of the Court. Finally, the whole purpose of EMD is precisely that it should be free of national political interests and that it should only have the protection of human rights in mind. In addition, Denmark has a much greater national scope within the Convention than the Danish courts have exploited. In fact, we have been able to expel many of the criminals. It is our own courts that have not done so, the Court of Human Rights has not in any way put itself in the way of it, and the Danish Institute of Human Rights has documented in a study that the judgments that come from the Court of Human Rights are far stricter than the judgments that come from the Danish Court of Justice. So what are we really going to criticise with this Copenhagen Declaration, which is being attacked from all sides? If we are to have popular support for human rights, and we have to do so, it would be much better for us to inform the Danish people that it is we who are not taking advantage of the opportunities we have and that it is not actually the Court of Human Rights that stands in the way of us being able to expel criminals from Denmark. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights has certain challenges that require action and commitment on the part of the Member States if it is to remain a guarantor of freedom, the rule of law and equality in Europe. One of these challenges, as others have said, is the ever-increasing number of cases. It is estimated that the court has almost 70,000 cases waiting to be dealt with. It goes without saying that the rights of European citizens cannot be properly safeguarded if they have to wait years to get the court's word for an infringement. The right to a fair trial is only guaranteed if the case is brought to justice quickly. That is why, in the alternative, we support the part of the Copenhagen Declaration which addresses this issue and, moreover, we are anxious to see what will happen with the final adoption of this draft Copenhagen Declaration. Unfortunately, the situation in Azerbaijan does not look too good either. Ilgar Mammadov, human rights defender and political activist, remains in prison despite the court's ruling that his continued imprisonment is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of Europe has initiated a procedure which could ultimately lead to the exclusion of Azerbaijan from the Council of Europe. Then I hope that in the April session the Danish Presidency will strongly condemn Israel's behaviour during the peaceful demonstration in Gaza, where 16 people were killed and more than 1,000 people were injured when they reminded the world that Palestinian refugees have rights as confirmed by UN Resolution 194. The European Court of Human Rights is an important institution for human rights in Europe. It has been the guarantor of human rights and democracy for more than 60 years. For the alternative, it is absolutely essential that we push the development of human rights and not undermine human rights, as the government has unfortunately proposed. That would be a disgrace to Denmark's history.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403190340	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. There are no brief comments. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403190351	In our view, the Council of Europe is one of the most important institutions that we are discussing today, and we are doing so, because it is above all a unique construction, that we have succeeded in bringing together so many states for a common understanding, at least in principle, of the concept of human rights, the Convention on Human Rights and an obligation to submit to a human rights court if human rights are violated in that country and a citizen, if necessary, brings the matter before the Court of Human Rights. This is a unique construction, which means that we have here a tool that we do not have anywhere else, even in the European Union, and where there is an opportunity when regimes such as Turkey and Russia deny freedom of expression, deny human rights, oppress their peoples, that the citizens who live in that country can actually appeal, and the state they live under, have committed themselves to recognising the conviction that is coming. It seems to us that it is a completely unique and fantastic construction, which we must be careful not to undermine or undermine, because today there are a number of domestic political considerations that advocate it. Having said that, I would like to say that I find the discussion on how to reinterpret or make a dynamic interpretation of an old convention completely legitimate and relevant, and I would like to say openly to the Danish People's Party that that is not the question. Nobody imagines that the convention should just stand as it did when it was written when the whole world changes as much as it does. That is precisely why a dynamic interpretation has been introduced. Nobody imagines that the interpretation then adopted by the judges cannot be the subject of a political debate and that there should be no political debate as to whether it is the correct interpretation on the basis of which it is based. It has been done throughout the history of the Court, and we therefore welcome the fact that we are now debating whether there should be an increased dialogue between the national courts and the Court of Human Rights and also at ministerial level discussions on this. It makes perfect sense, but for precisely the reasons that the government is kicking in an open door here, as Mrs Sandbæk said. It turns out that the Danish courts are lagging behind the European Court of Human Rights case law on some of these controversial issues of expulsion and so on. It is not the court that stands in the way of the Danish courts being able to expel, as among other things. The Danish People's Party wants it. One kicks in an open door and that is precisely why I have to say to the Foreign Minister that I am surprised that, in the situation we have at the moment, Denmark has chosen to make exactly that question its main priority in relation to the Council of Europe. I should like to say that I think there are other questions that are pressing. We think it is good that we can get that clarification. That is to a large extent what is already happening in Brighton, but it is not the most important question for the same reason: there is, after all, the whole question of Russia which has been raised by several rapporteurs, what is happening in Turkey and whether we can even hold together the Council of Europe, as it is now screwed up. I think that this should be the absolute priority and priority of the Danish Government rather than what I consider to be a kind of domestic political fatam organizational campaign for, it can be said, not least to please its parliamentary basis. Again: We welcome any discussion. We constantly believe that it is necessary to ensure that the interpretation of the Convention is contemporary. Let me therefore just put one question to the Foreign Minister, so that we are quite clear. We understand that what the government is pursuing here is not a rewrite or the opening of the existing conventions, but that it is, if I may say so, the interpretation that is being sought to create a political directional game or dialogue, or whatever we should call it, for which I think it would be nice to hear. Because sometimes you hear rapporteurs from the governing parties who say that what you are doing is rewrite the conventions, open them and so on. I even believe that the Secretary of State's own party was at some point in favour of it, and that is a completely different exercise. Because you risk doing yourself a disservice with all the regimes and rogue states, etc. that are out there that can take advantage of that situation. So it would be nice to make it quite clear that at least this is not what the government is doing, even though we would like to see the real problems perhaps being tackled rather than those which we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403190856	With that, we thank Mr. Martin Lidegaard. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why we have actually now reached the questioner, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403190911	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the speeches you have made during the debate. The speeches have confirmed the great political interest of the Council of Europe and of our Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. We took over the presidency last November. It has been marked by the important work on our five priorities and the handling of current political challenges in the Council of Europe, which is also an initial response to Mr. Martin Lidegaard. The main political challenge concerns Russia and the lack of participation by Russian MEPs in the PACE Parliamentary Assembly, compared with the country's detention of payments to the budget. I fully agree that this is a real, really great challenge. With the Danish Presidency, we have helped to raise awareness of the problems around Europe so that everyone understands the seriousness and importance of this challenge for the Council of Europe. I myself have also raised this issue in the context of meetings of Foreign Ministers in Brussels. All the Member States of the Council of Europe must meet their membership obligations, including financial commitments. As a Presidency, we have supported the efforts of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to get Russia to pay what they owe. At the same time, we must try to avoid a situation in which over 140 million people lose the protection afforded by the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights against human rights violations committed by the Russian state. So no disagreement here. In addition to the work on the current issues on the agenda of the Committee of Ministers, we have carried out the important work on our five priorities for the Presidency. Here we have put important core issues for Denmark on the Council of Europe agenda, and so far we have achieved a number of results that we believe we can be proud of. We have focused on the training of young people for democratic citizens, which is a crucial response to the fight against radicalisation and extremism. We have actively worked to address prejudices about people with disabilities with a well-visited seminar in Copenhagen in December. We have shared experience of combating torture in early stages of police custody and in custody with the other Member States. We have worked to strengthen and modernise the work of gender equality in the Council of Europe. Here we have adopted a new gender equality strategy for the Council of Europe, which will be launched at a major equality conference in Copenhagen next month. At the same time, we have jointly held a conference here at Christiansborg on the private and family life of lgbti people. In this context, I would also like to thank the Parliamentary PACE delegation for its good and constructive cooperation during the Presidency, particularly in connection with PACE's meetings in Strasbourg, where, at the last session in January, we had the pleasure, as was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, of an inspiring speech by Her Royal Highness The Crown Princess concerning, among other things, the Danish People's Party. equal opportunities and the protection of the rights of people with disabilities. In addition, the government's main priority for reform of the European human rights system has been a key area of action under the Presidency. Work on this priority is anchored with the Minister of Justice. It was launched at a high-level conference in Kokkedal last November on the future of the European human rights system. There were good and constructive discussions with representatives from other countries and experts from the Council of Europe. The experience of the conference has been used constructively in the preparation of this proposal for a political reform agreement, the Copenhagen Declaration, which is currently being negotiated by the Committee of Ministers in Strasbourg. The proposal contains a number of suggestions. It acts among other things. on ensuring the right balance between international and national levels in the protection of human rights, and we find ways to deal with the matter and to strengthen the procedures for the election of judges. A separate Danish priority is to create new tools that give countries better opportunities to influence the direction if they experience that the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights is out of course. Next week, Copenhagen will be the scene of a major international ministerial conference hosted by the Minister of Justice. The aim here is to adopt the Copenhagen Declaration. Our Presidency programme bears the title "Europe in a run-off time." "Strengthening values and a future-proof Council of Europe." Through working on our priorities, we have promoted strong Danish and European values. At the same time, with our main priority, we have continued the important reform work in the Council of Europe, thereby helping to secure the organisation for the future. Precisely the future assurance of the Council of Europe is also at the heart of the great meeting of Foreign Ministers which will take place in Elsinore on 17 and 18 May. In view of the organisation's current challenges, we must have a discussion on the future of the Council of Europe and I hope that many of my fellow ministers will be involved. All in all, Denmark has so far delivered a professional, well-disclosed and broadly oriented Presidency with good results, and I am sure that this will also be the case for the latter part of the Presidency. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191447	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the time being. It is Nikolaj Villumsen who has the first brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191453	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the Copenhagen Declaration which the government is working to adopt. Can the Foreign Minister guarantee that in the so-called Copenhagen Declaration there will be no reference to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights which could weaken the protection of freedom of expression by the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191523	We have no ambition at all to put ourselves in a situation in which we undermine the protection of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191532	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191533	I just have to understand the Foreign Minister correctly: then can the Foreign Minister guarantee the Folketing that any wording in the Copenhagen Declaration, which refers to Article 8 cases concerning the right to privacy, will not have consequences for Article 10 cases concerning freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191554	How exactly we land the wordings in the Copenhagen Declaration seems to me to be too early to go into. There are some debates going on at the moment, but just to emphasise: of course, we have no ambition to end up in a situation where we are going to undermine freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191613	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191615	It is, in fact, just a thank you from here to the work of the government and to the debate that has been going on. I know it's been difficult. It is when you have to negotiate with so many parties. But that is just a thank you from here, and we look forward to it actually turning into something positive. I think this will benefit the whole context and not least the Danish people's regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191646	Is there a comment from the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191648	Not other than: thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191651	That means we're past the thanks-givings right now. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191655	That was the one question I had, whether the Minister would just confirm for the sake of good order that it is not a reopening of the Commissions and the Commission on Human Rights as such that the government is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191708	It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191714	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191716	I must admit that I do not think the Minister's reply to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's question was quite clear. Is it not the case that Article 10 deals with freedom of expression? And if you have no intention whatsoever of weakening the influence of the Court in terms of freedom of expression, is there any reason to mention it in the declaration that is to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191746	Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191747	I have answered as precisely as I can at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191751	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191753	I think it is a problem that the Minister will not answer such a relatively clear question. I see there's a lively conference going on with the official lodge down here. We must then understand that the Minister is opening the way for a weakening of freedom of expression. I do not know whether it is the Mohammed drawings that will no longer be possible to draw, or what it is, since Article 10 will now be included in this. One thing, then, is Article 8 on expulsion and something like that, but Article 10! In other words, can the Minister give a single reason why Article 10 should be included in the work currently being done by the Danish Government in relation to that declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191836	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191838	Well, I have the answer. Of course, you can polemicise and so on. from the answer I have given, but what is going on at this stage is that the final wordings are being negotiated, and that is why I do not want to go into that discussion further. It would be wrong to arrive at the right result.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191859	Well, then, sir. Christian Juhl possibility. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403191902	I must also say that one of the things that can trigger me at Pomeranian in the foreign policy of the present government is that when you ask what is the government's position on that and that question, you do not get an answer. Then the minister comes home with something and says, "We made it." Why is there not a clear answer where you say: yes, it is our intention to do so and so, and you can have a guarantee that that is what we want to do? However, it was the least one could expect from a minister. The only thing we see here is a circus show where the Danish People's Party praises the Minister without saying what it is that the Minister for Human Rights understands that it is probably for now to smash some more paragraphs of the Human Rights Convention. Can the Minister not see that it is not a good dialogue to have with the Folketing, that they say: No, I have no comment to make on that, and I have answered the answer bypass? It was much better to give a clear answer. Are you gonna mess with it, are you gonna mess with it, is it your intention to mess with that paragraph, or isn't it? Will you defend it with the rest of us, or will you not? However, it would be quite interesting also for the Danes to know what kind of government they are sending down to such negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192013	Yes, but again: I actually think we have been running a very open process. We have set out our priorities. We have also presented our draft text for adoption openly, and there have been reactions to it and discussions on it. Right now, as we are sitting here, there are debates taking place confidentially in the Committee of Ministers in Strasbourg, and the aim is to get out of those negotiations in a good way, in which we are actually going to achieve this priority that the government has. And that is, in fact, the simple reason why I am responding, as I am doing at the moment, namely that the negotiations I think should be respected. They're done confidentially.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192056	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192057	But then I just have to hear: is the main priority to keep your hands off freedom of expression and the rules on freedom of expression? Because it is quite unclear to me what clear conditions you are working on. That is what this is all about, and it was so easy to say yes or no to such a question. At least it's easy for the rest of us because we know where we're going. And I actually believe that too or hope that the minister knows that. You want to keep your hands off that paragraph, or you don't want to? Surely there must be a limit to such negotiations, or is it all just relative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192134	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192135	The rapporteur may be tired of my reply as I am. Sometimes you can also get a little tired on the other side of the polemics and attempts to create some images that the government stands for something other than what it stands for. I have said repeatedly, while I have been standing here today, on this platform, that we have no ambition whatsoever to reduce the protection of freedom of expression. Then why ask if we have an ambition to do so? We have not, and I have answered that several times.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192207	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192210	What worries me is that when you start touching something, it falls apart. That is why it is important if it is not just an ambition not to tamper with Article 10, but actually an objective not to do so. So, will you stand up for it and say that then we can't come ashore with what we'd like, if it's that there are other countries saying that now Denmark wants to tamper with Article 8, and then we'll also pick up a little over here, and then some third ones will pick up a third place and then suddenly it falls apart? That's what the worry is about. And what is being asked is: where is the limit for the government, if it is that, all of a sudden, through these negotiations, you are being forced to buy something as important as freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192251	See, the goal is actually exactly the opposite of what is now being indicated. The aim is actually to secure the system for the future; that we dare to face up to the debates and react to them. And if we do not, we will end up in a situation where we are actually undermining the system, because we will end up in a situation where we will see a population that will be marked by increasing scepticism over a system that we, as a government, actually want to preserve. That is why we have taken up this matter and have such a main priority and hopefully we will get through with a good result. It's to secure the system in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192333	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192334	I very much agree with the point about facing things, but what I hear is the concern on the part of the Enhedslisten, which is also the concern of the Alternative, is that you are taking pills now. Then there are others who say that we have to face up to the fact that our people will not stand up for freedom of expression. So you buy it all of a sudden? What I would certainly like our Foreign Minister to say clearly was: if freedom of expression starts to be tampered with, we will stand firm, even if we do not get it through, we would like it because we do not want to mess with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192406	But again: I do not think there is any doubt whatsoever that the government is completely and utterly committed to the fact that one of the core values of a democracy is the protection of freedom of expression. It seems strange to me to imagine otherwise, and that will be the case in the Danish Parliament, regardless of which government sits there I assume.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192425	With that, we can thank the Secretary of State. There are no further questions on this, so we go further in the debate on the statement. Now we have reached Nordic co-operation. Anyone who starts out is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192448	Thank you. I would like to start this debate by congratulating the Minister and commending the statement. I think the statement shows a high level of activity, but perhaps even more that a number of priorities are under way in Nordic co-operation. Much of that, I think, is flying under the radar in everyday life, but nevertheless there is a very concrete work that is also important. I am also pleased that the report focuses on the fact that Nordic co-operation in itself is primarily about added value for the Nordic people. I think the priorities are excellent. I will not go into detail with them, but I will mention mobility, because there is no doubt that the more integrated we can stay in the region, the better it is for employees, jobs and, at the very least, for European cooperation. I think that the branding, the Nordic joint branding, is absolutely crucial, and I think that one is aware, if one has travelled around the world a little, that one does not get very far south of Ejderen, until it can be difficult sometimes to find out what it is, the capital is called in Sweden, whether it is Denmark, which is the capital of Sweden, or whatever it is. So the fact that we share fires is crucial. There is no doubt that then there is the saying that the Nordic countries actually have a good standing around the world. The implementation of the UN's global goals is another area. During the Danish Presidency in 2016, we focused on it, and we actually asked the Prime Minister to deal with it at the time. I am quite sure that we can make a difference under the auspices of the United Nations when we meet and work together as Nordic countries. I also think it is good to see that in a whole range of selected ministerial areas there are very concrete examples of what is actually being done in everyday life. It is not the case that I think everything has been achieved, but there are concrete examples of what we are working on. This leads me to make a side remark, because in addition to the day-to-day work, I think that some of what has been able to lift Nordic co-operation over the last decade or a decade and a half has been when we have got competent people to make statements in selected areas. The Stoltenberg report is an excellent example of this and it has helped to lift the debate. The Könberg report is another example. Last time we saw the Poul Nielson report, and it has probably not been able to quite swing as I would have liked, but focusing precisely on the speciality that we have in the Nordic countries, about the Nordic labour market model, is of course absolutely crucial all the time, because it is quite frankly under pressure in many different contexts. Nordic co-operation is and must be marked by our history, our common history, our understanding of languages, our common DNA, and there is also something like our award-winning that is involved, I believe, at least once a year, to make it a little wider for the people of the Nordic countries, in other words that here we stand together. But I also think we should look forward, because there are still many things that I do not think we have done well enough. Antibiotic resistance is one of them, although we have been discussing it for many years now. There are a number of examples of health where, by working together, we can do better. Tourism is a final example. It is only five minutes that we have here, so I will end by trying to give some bids in relation to the Nordic parliamentary part, which is of course of concern to us. I would like to start by saying that I think the Nordic debate has become much more coherent in recent years and that it has become much more dynamic. I think it is good to be at sessions and see how the political debate also, based on different political perceptions of Nordic co-operation and where the Nordic Region should move, actually plays a role. We see a high level of activity in relation to questions, and some really exciting things have happened here. We also have some dark things ahead of us. We have a language and translation problem which must somehow find its solution. It is probably very expensive if the wishes that are from Iceland and Finland in particular are to be met, but we have to find the solution in some way. We have a Faroese problem within the Kingdom Community, which we must also look at. Then there is something else that I think is absolutely crucial, and that is that we Nordic parliamentarians should be much better at having continuity in our cooperation. At the end of the Danish Presidency, I advocated that instead of every year trying to start completely over with the new country, we should try to create some sort of troika model. It is the case that what is then on the agenda for one year suddenly disappears. Tourism is surely a good example. In fact, I think that during the Danish Presidency we got very far and good things are still going on around tourism, but it does not have the same drive when there is no political attention to it. So there are some areas where, as Nordic politicians, we can do better for the benefit of Nordic co-operation. The time has passed, so I shall conclude by congratulating the Danish delegation. I think there is a great deal of energy in the delegation that they take their work seriously and I think they help to show that Nordic co-operation actually makes a difference in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403192958	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen and passes on the floor to Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403193009	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for this statement on the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Nordic co-operation is a good cooperation and cooperation, which I personally and we in the Danish People's Party attach great importance to. It is also a cooperation which is very important for Denmark. During the last year, the party group Nordic freedom, which the Danish People's Party helped to establish, has also grown. In August, the Swedish Democrats also joined the group, in addition to our colleagues De Sande Finner, thereby strengthening Nordic freedom with our common views and positions. I find it interesting to read how the government wants flexible and effective Nordic cooperation, which is focused on areas that provide Nordic added value. The government refers in particular to the EU and that the EU's common legislation is the primary reason for integration in the Nordic countries. We do not entirely share that view in the Danish People's Party, nor in Nordic freedom. We believe that the Nordic countries, with their over 26 million inhabitants, have an entirely natural cohesion that does not necessarily depend on the EU's common legislation. The Nordic countries are much more homogeneous than other countries in the European Union and in many ways more integrated and far ahead of the European Union and the policy developed by the bureaucrats in Brussels and Strasbourg. Regarding the government's special focus on work on mobility in the Nordic region and the design of an action plan for mobility, we are very positive about the coming years. This is because the work on the Border Obstacle Council is being strengthened and the government has appointed Bertel Haarder, who, with his great professionalism and knowledge of Nordic work, can carry on the work of strengthening the Border Obstacle Council. It also ensures that there will be a continued focus on strengthened Nordic legal cooperation. In the area of immigration and integration, however, it still does not look brighter in the Nordic context, as Sweden continues to run its own policy in this area, which in every way is destructive and destructive to the Swedes and indirectly also to Denmark. Their failed policy means that far more than 1,000 non-western immigrants and refugees every year cross the Øresund towards Denmark, once they have combined their entire family in Sweden. It is clear that the exchange of experience and the development of new knowledge in the field of integration are important. At first sight, however, it does not seem that we in Denmark have taken the experience of the Swedes to heart, as we in Denmark are still talking about integrating more quickly and ensuring a firmer and better link with the labour market for refugees and immigrants. In the Danish People's Party and Nordic freedom, we have a vertical disagreement that immigrants and refugees must be ensured quickly and firmly linked to the labour market in the Nordic countries. We cannot just continue to accept the many who are seeking the adventure in the Nordic countries and the good life that they all hope for and have read about on social media, because when reality, where we pay our taxes and our bills, gives before we enjoy and honour democracy and freedom of expression, many are not willing to conform to the Nordic democratic welfare model. In one year, expenditure in the area of refugees and immigrants has dropped from an estimated 33 billion. kr. Thirty-six billion. kr., so it doesn't look as yet that we have found the displayed stones in that area. It is good to hear that in 2018 we give priority to branding of the Nordic Region, because of the fact that most people today know the Nordic Region and perhaps Denmark in particular as a tourist country, what we also notice with the many tourists who visit us every year, and tourism is increasing, but it also gives stronger branding at the Nordic level and also all the peoples of the world a very broad knowledge of everything we stand for in the Nordic Region, with our good welfare system, good technological development and also the very exciting development in the food sector; it is just to take some examples. When we talk about education in the Nordic countries, it is important that there are equal conditions for everyone, and that not only Norwegians, Swedes, Finns and Icelanders come to Denmark to study, but that much is also done for Danish students to take an interest in the Nordic Region and find it equally exciting to study there. In the Nordic Council we also see Greenland as an important partner. There are elections in 3 weeks' time, and here the whole Nordic region is following developments, as some Greenlanders want, in the direction of independence, but none of the other Nordic countries sees as a realistic option, as Greenland, as it now seems, would never be able to cope with itself and without Denmark's subsidies of approx. 4 billion kr. Finally, I would just like to highlight one further area: health, where it is absolutely necessary for our high consumption of penicillin to be reduced. Antibiotic resistance becomes a bigger and bigger problem, which can be really, really difficult to control if we do not really take care of it now. It is 70 years since Alexander Fleming discovered the penicillin, but in the last 30 years no new types of antibiotics have been developed for humans. As one of the world's leading countries in medicine and health research, Denmark and the Nordic countries as a whole should be among those who take the lead in addressing problems of antibiotic resistance. It is my hope that the government will accept these recommendations. With this, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement and thank the President for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403193548	Well, we're gonna say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jan Erik Messmann, Danish People's Party, and passes on the floor to Mr. Bertel Haarder from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403193604	Thank you, President. When Germany and Italy in the 1800s were brought together into two large, strong nation states, the Nordic countries, strangely enough, remained divided, and we have been so ever since, strangely enough, because the Nordic countries were actually much more alike than the German and Italian empires, and the Nordic citizens were much more positive about a collection than the Germans and Italians were respectively. But we remained divided, and the division was followed by a small-state thinking that has influenced us ever since. We saw ourselves as small and uncontrollable, so with good reason and with good conscience we allowed others to do the gross work in this world. We compensated for the weakness by strengthening the cultural and spiritual ties, which had both good meaning and good space, and we have got a lot of that out of it. This has led to the extensive Nordic co-operation, which we see described today in the excellent report by the Minister for Cooperation on cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Thank you for that and thank you for emphasising the importance of removing border barriers and pointing to traces of the North, traces of the North. Thank you for the words about cooperation in the fields of culture, health, environment, climate, energy, education, research, digitalisation, employment and joint efforts outside the Nordic Region. I have attached myself to the obscure words about, and I quote, problematisation of the Nordic media reality of the future, quote the end. That must be something they have written in the Ministry of Culture, and I think it is Latin for geoblocking, in other words for the phenomenon that we need to eliminate, that is to say that TV shows are not freely available across the Nordic borders. After all, there was something about 100,000 Nordic teenagers who were prevented from watching the series Shame because there was a dispute over copyright when it came to the music in the series. Thank you for the words about border barriers. I have spent all day on border barriers, and it is massive how many foolishness are still pending and which arise. In some ways, things go backwards. I think, in particular, that when it comes to the Øresund cooperation, it seems to be going backwards, and that is something we simply need to correct. I am also thinking of living in one country and working in the other. This is not good for the European Spallation Source in Scania when there are problems both for those who live in Denmark and work in Sweden and those who live in Sweden and work in Denmark. We need to solve that. In the field of health, we have received the Könberg report, which is a good recipe, as is the Stoltenberg report on defence cooperation, to which we shall return. I would just like to add one point to the Könberg report, namely clinical trials, because the Nordic countries have become some of the strongest in the world in terms of pharmaceutical production, and it would strengthen Nordic pharmaceutical companies if access to one country were access to all countries. This is also something you work with in the European Union, but my philosophy is that we should never wait for the European Union to come up with a solution. The Nordic countries just have to take the lead. If, then, we have found a model that works, we can count on it to become European, or at least to take it into account. For as Professor Liselotte Højgaard at Rigshospitalet says from his experience with EU research cooperation: When the Nordic countries cooperate and talk before meetings, they always get their way. I have asked her predecessor Klaus Bock if this was also true in his time as a leading Danish researcher in Brussels. Yes, he says it was true in his day. Then what is there to wait for? We should cooperate more than we do in a number of ministerial areas. But thank you for that statement. It says everything right, it just needs to be followed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403194107	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403194114	Thank you. Enhedslisten is enthusiastic in favour of international cooperation. This is a prerequisite for the development of both sustainable societies, democracy and human rights. This also applies to the cooperation in the Nordic Council, from which I always happily and enthusiastically both go and leave home. The Nordic Council is a good and productive forum, where we can inspire each other, develop our society and • if we want to develop the world's most sustainable region with renewable energy, circular economy, 100% organic agriculture, sustainable fishing and sustainable transport, as well as implementing the UN's 17 global goals jointly and perhaps even inspiring others. The Nordic Council is also where we can secure joint development projects in the Third World so that we can support a more equal world without hunger, disease, crises and wars. We have something to gain from; we have experience; we have had attitudes to be the world's leader in this field. The Nordic Council is the place where we can further develop the welfare society that in recent years has been under pressure from market forces or what we used to call capitalism, which is causing the Nordic welfare societies to crumble in essential areas. It is also where we can develop education, health, good working conditions, care for the elderly and social security across borders and inspire each other, make joint agreements so that people can move across borders and have the same rights. That is where we can play an important role in the development of a defensive and non-military conflict resolution activity. More initiatives have been taken on this, and I think we can go much, much further if we make an effort and not just think that military solutions are the only ones. We will discuss this later today when we talk about NORDEFCO. It is also where we can secure a nuclear-free Baltic Sea, if we want, on our way to an Arctic that is sustainable on behalf of nature and the local population and without militarisation. It is also in the Nordic Council that we can benefit from each other's culture, language, film, television and literature, and where we can press the pharmaceutical industry through the joint purchase of medicines and I would like to ask the Minister: How is that going, by the way? That is also where we can plan a joint action against microbial resistance in the food industry and in the hospitals, and I would like to ask the Minister: how is that going, by the way? It is also where we can work and train ourselves in each other's countries and where we can counteract the negative consequences of EU policy, which we, among other things, have. in writing. - (FR) The rapporteur of the Left has given a little hib, as opposed to what is stated in the R 8 statement, because it says that it is the European Union that is bringing things forward. That's not exactly true. It is also in the Nordic Council that we can meet together and produce results and meet equally without the EU's bureaucracy and lobbying. That is also where we can combat trafficking in human beings and slavery, and I would like to ask the Minister: how is that going, by the way? That is also where we can set up joint Nordic embassies; we have talked a lot about that and I would like to ask the Minister: how are things going with that? We can go much further, and we can benefit much more from each other in Nordic co-operation, because the way we have found out is unbureaucratic and sometimes effective. But in any case, cooperation is equal. I have a few questions at the end, and first I would like to hear what the Minister will think of us trying to work for I know that this might be right on the edge of the next question, and there comes the Minister of War himself answering the question of setting up a standing Nordic peacekeeping and peacekeeping force at the disposal of the UN, for action in war zones like the old SHIRBRIG. Could it be a project that we could take up in the Nordic Council and could it be something that could move us forward in trying to solve the problems we have in the UN to provide staff for these operations? Another question is: can we in the Nordic countries restore a common approach to our language and culture, for example. by learning how to read and understand the languages of our Danish primary schools and also like in the Norwegian, Finnish, Swedish and Icelandic primary schools? I remember with great pleasure that we should practice reading and understanding both Norwegian, Swedish and a little bit Icelandic. This helped to create a feeling that there was a potential for experiences with people you are close to, namely our neighbours. It could also be a place where we could make a proper drive for the Nordic to become a natural thing, and not something to acquire; I have met too many young people who say that they do not understand Swedish or Norwegian. But that is not true; it is a question of whether you will understand it and have a little help from your schoolteacher or from your parents. The Nordic Council cooperation is exciting, it is a very good cooperation, and we would warmly recommend that we develop it much longer than we have imagined in the presentation here, as there is a potential for really great international progress for our countries in the Nordic Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403194650	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a great deal of praise for Nordic co-operation, I think I can say. However, there are no brief comments right now, so we will continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403194703	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for a fine statement. As Mr. Bertel Haarder put it: it says everything right, but it just needs to be followed up. Yes, it can hardly be said any shorter. The fact that we in Denmark have a close relationship with the other Nordic countries goes back many years. We in the Nordic countries share in many ways a common culture and history, we all know that. Supporting and strengthening this strong Nordic identity therefore of course means something for the cohesion that we as people feel with each other in the Nordic countries. However, a shared Nordic identity and close cooperation also give the Nordic region a significantly greater influence internationally than the countries would otherwise have had separately. As you know, President Obama stated in 2016 that the Nordic countries consistently punch above their weight. We have this ability, among other things. Thanks to the co-operation of the Nordic Council of Ministers, where the Nordic countries cooperate in a wide range of areas. We in the Liberal Alliance welcome this. Also at a time when the value policy agenda is filling more and more, we believe that the government has been right to try to exploit the positive branding of the Nordic countries in relation to exports by involving the embassies and their trade departments around the globe. As you know, we are living at a time when we are not just asking for material things, that is. good, functional and affordable products, but certainly also the story that relates to the products. And here the Nordic tale of freedom, equality, democracy and welfare is certainly a good one that can undoubtedly bring added value to our businesses and therefore also to our citizens. We are positive that the government has decided that in 2018 special attention will be paid to the work on mobility, so that the Council of Ministers will continue to work with a determined commitment to link the Nordic Region even closer together. We have seen it in the field of energy, or rather in the area of electricity supply, where integration is almost one hundred percent, so that production and marketing can be optimised. In the same way, the other infrastructure can help to create integration and increase strength. Let me conclude by saying that we in the Liberal Alliance would very much like to see the Nordic train on the road of volunteering running a little stronger and without the great bureaucracy. I am sure the citizens want that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403194951	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403195000	Thank you. The first thing the government attaches importance to in its report on Nordic co-operation is that it should make Denmark stronger. In fact, I think that it would be more ambitious if the aim was to make the world better, the Nordic region better, and thus also Denmark better. When Denmark cooperates internationally, it is quite fundamental for us in the Alternative that it should create a better world for everyone. The places where there is particular potential to make the world better when we talk about Nordic cooperation, but unfortunately there is not so much focus in this statement, are two areas such as climate and culture. By standing together in these two areas, we believe that the Nordic Region can help create a better world. A good example of this is the "Generation 2030" programme, which is the Nordic Council's programme for cooperation on the common challenges of achieving the 2030 Agenda. After all, the aim of the strategy is to achieve the objectives of the Nordic Region through analyses, knowledge sharing, methodology development and engagement of civil society organisations, private sector, research networks and youth organisations. The really positive thing is that we will soon see a focus on consumption and production, which is probably the area where we in the Nordic countries have the worst allerald hardest living up to the UN 2030 agenda. So I look forward to following that very closely, and it is a job that I think a government really should take seriously, because without looking at our consumption and production, the Nordic countries will not achieve the 17 world goals. Another area on which I think real emphasis should be placed is culture, as I have said. I think it is a pity that it has been dealt with in such a rather spatial way in the statement. I really think it is important that we look at how we can become much more ambitious when it comes to our cultural exchange and our cultural cooperation. It is in relation to art, literature, visual arts, film, the media, etc., but it is of course also in relation to culture where we meet and where we develop as a society and as a human being. It is also something that I really think should be given a great deal of attention by the Danish Government. One last thing I would like to emphasise is the whole cooperation on democracy. We have developed popular meetings from Sweden in particular, and I know that there is a great deal of strong cooperation going on between the popular meetings of both the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries, and this is a work that I really think we should get strengthened, because I believe that by strengthening these collaborations between the popular meetings, between our democracy festivals, we can also export the idea of how we meet and talk across differences and hopefully across borders. So a call to perhaps look more at climate, more at culture and more at democracy in the work in the coming year in the Nordic Council of Ministers. And not least, I am looking forward to the statement next year, where I hope there will be more focus on these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403195328	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403195336	Thank you very much, President. In my speech, I will also cover the part relating to Nordic defence cooperation, as I am unfortunately prevented from being present during the last part of today's debate. We are radicals in favour of Nordic co-operation. We think, like sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen said that there has been a great deal of dynamism in the cooperation, but also sees opportunities to strengthen it even more, not least in the climate and energy sectors, as several other rapporteurs have mentioned, where we have some very unique competences and, incidentally, an integration of our electricity systems, from which the rest of the world could learn. This actually brings me to my main vision of Nordic co-operation, or rather the area where I think we could do much more together, and which combines Nordic co-operation in general and Nordic security and defence cooperation. The Nordic social model is now known throughout the world, the world that is growing at an explosive rate at the moment, and how many emerging economies are looking for role models in a wide range of areas, whether they are energy, health care, tax systems, or what we can name as unique constructions in the Nordic welfare models. I am convinced that there would be enormous potential for foreign policy, by the fact that the Nordic countries came together to promote the Nordic social model more closely, if I may say so, in selected areas where demand is really high. On the defence side, I am thinking not least of the humanitarian and stabilising efforts that all the Nordic countries agree with us are too poor for the rest of NATO, by the way. In other words, the preventive measures that come before military intervention and after military intervention, which are the prerequisites for sometimes not having to leave with our military at all, and that we can make sure that we do not have to leave again at other times. There the Nordic countries have some unique competences in those areas, and they could, in my opinion, have stronger cooperation and thus together make themselves more effective, both in NATO cooperation but also in European cooperation, although not all Nordic states are in both NATO and the EU and, of course, in the entire Arctic area, which is so unique to our region in the world. So I would like to see the Nordic Region become bigger in the world and the Nordic Region become bigger in our security policy in what could almost be called the slightly softer part of security policy. There are plenty of opportunities to influence the world's progress at the moment. After all, we are small economies and countries, but together we are large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403195631	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are ready to give the floor to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403195645	Let me begin by thanking the whole range of committed rapporteurs, both in the context of the debate on the report here, but also for active and fruitful cooperation at all. Allow me to conclude that we all regard Nordic co-operation as both positive but indeed very valuable. I appreciate the ongoing dialogue that we have to continue to develop cooperation, both under the auspices of the Nordic Council and under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Let me begin here with some general remarks about Nordic co-operation, and let there be no doubt that our Nordic affiliation, and indeed also in general Nordic co-operation, is very important for Denmark. Our common basis of value and, at the very least, the fruitful cooperation that we have are worth protecting. It is also important in the challenging and turbulent world in which we live. Then I also think it is worth noting that about 20%. of Danish exports actually go to the other Nordic countries. Let me highlight in particular two strengths in Nordic co-operation. Firstly, we are therefore much stronger in international contexts when we stand together in the Nordic countries. We often set an example for others to build on, and the Nordic platform is also valuable in marketing our skills and our talented companies. The Social Democrats' rapporteur also mentioned how we act together and strongly in relation to our work at the United Nations. In my role as Minister for Gender Equality, I had the pleasure of participating, before Easter, in the United Nations Women's Commission, where we are, in concrete terms, engaged in such strong Nordic cooperation. In this context, it is important that we use the obligation that it is to appear as the nations we are, but do not end up as some maybe a little critical and a little humorous can call it just sitting and having our own internal beauty competitions about which Nordic countries do the best, but that we, under the auspices of the United Nations, are helping and conscious of setting an example for others to build on. Secondly, we use and can use Nordic co-operation to become even better in the many sectoral policy areas. It is important that we continue to benchmark ourselves against each other and be inspired by good solutions from other countries. Here Enhedslisten has specifically asked questions about, for example, how things are in the field of medicine prices etc. To this end, it is particularly important to say that it is sector-specific areas and in this context also important to talk to the relevant trade ministers about how the more detailed work is going. But all of us, and not only the Minister for Nordic co-operation and the Danish delegation for Nordic co-operation, must continue to see the possibilities of Nordic co-operation and develop it so that it becomes more dynamic. And yes, good progress has been made on the reforms, and we must continue to work. As my good fellow party member, sir. Bertel Haarder said this in his rapporteur's speech: never wait for the European Union. In this context, one can be inspired by how we sometimes also allow ourselves to say that we may not always have to wait for the entire Nordic Council of Ministers or the entire Nordic Council, but precisely use the democratic forces we have to be single countries that come together, and in general challenge our consensus approach to Nordic co-operation sometimes. Because when we do, there are opportunities to make progress, including on the reform agenda. Let me mention the digitalisation area as a new, important priority area. Then I have to say that although I, like the many rapporteurs, talk about Nordic co-operation as something positive, sometimes I also look with concern at whether future generations will appreciate Nordic co-operation in the same way. That is why I have taken the initiative to work more consciously with a stronger, we can call the internal communication effort in the Nordic countries, that is, with our Nordic countries, and to work with this effort, with regard to what cooperation means to our peoples and what it means to our businesses. In connection with the Nordic day here on 23 March, I was fortunate enough that one of the national newspapers accepted and chose to print an article I had written about the exact importance of Nordic cooperation and also the concern about whether future generations will appreciate it in the same way. In this context, it is also important to highlight the role of civil society as a particularly important aspect in the Nordic region. In the presentation here to the Danish Parliament, we have focused on the formal cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers and the issues that will be particularly focussed on the future work. As has become apparent, the government will focus its efforts to develop integration in our Nordic region on the mobility of businesses and citizens in the Nordic region. The economic potential of the Nordic countries must be exploited to the maximum. This is also true in the international effort, where the government will be engaged in the work of profiling the Nordic Region for the benefit of Danish exports as well. In addition, one last comment, if it can be reached ■ it can, I can see very briefly to the various rapporteurs who have also highlighted the concern about how neighbouring languages feel, i.e. how good we are at understanding each other when we use our neighbouring languages. There I have a clear support for the work that the Danish delegation is doing to deal with geoblocking, i.e. access to watching each other's television stations. Several have also highlighted the internal branding in the form of the many prizes awarded under the auspices of the Nordic Council and, of course, the important work that the primary schools do to ensure that neighbouring languages are part of the primary school model. It is important that it is handled and taken seriously, and that the many learning platforms are used, which all other things are equally well spent in developing. Here I am thinking specifically of the excellent work done by the NORDEN association. North of school. I think the time frame was exceeded. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200358	The time frame is now not exceeded, so it is really fine. But there is one more brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200405	Thank you. I have been told by good old colleagues who are also working with the Nordic Council that this statement was previously accompanied by an overview of which border barriers were identified and how many were resolved during the period. It no longer exists. Where is it? And why should we not have it so that we can discuss and look into it and ask how far the ministers have come? Because we hear about the work in the Nordic Council, but we do not hear so often about the work of the ministers. That's one thing. The second thing is that the Nordic Council of Ministers has decided that there has been 8 per cent savings. in the cooperation budget for the last four years. I was opposed to that because I think it is wrong. What if they said the same thing to NATO and the United Nations? Then it would create a revolution. But it has, among other things. that the Nordic Institute for Asian Studies, NIAS, is now threatened by closure. Why? Why has the government not taken care to save it, a very, very important institute that looks at Asian countries, among others. China, which has helped to communicate a contact that the business community in Denmark uses. It must be something that speaks to a liberal heart that these are such things that universities can also be used for. Why is it not ensured that the NIAS does not close? Either by a Danish effort or by preventing savings from being made in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200523	Thank you for the questions. Firstly, the first question on the inventory of existing border barriers and also, most importantly, resolved border barriers: in the enhanced mandate for the work of the Border Prevention Council, this annual report, which I believe to be very important and which is the subject of thorough discussion, among other things. when the Minister meets with the delegation and takes up matters on a regular basis. So it has not been part of the statement, since the statement also has the limitation that it has a total of 12 pages, as far as I remember. So there is a lack of space in relation to it. But the annual report is where it can be found. Very briefly to the second question about the redistribution of funds to the Nordic co-operation bodies, including NIAS: we have agreed on this and all the Nordic countries are phasing out funding for virtually all the so-called cooperation bodies, that is. including the NIAS. There were five in total, and it is the four that have now been decided to be phased out in relation to the financing conditions, because there is simply a need to say that the funds for the cooperation bodies will become part of the NordForsk funds, so that we get the funds put out to competition and so that, as is the case now, Nordic research funds are not used in such a way as to be used for permanent basic funding. So this is not a matter of dissatisfaction with the work of the four out of the five institutes, but rather simply that there is a decision in principle to transfer it precisely to NordForsk with a view to putting the funds into competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200711	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200713	Thank you. I now think it would be very good if the delegation were to receive that summary, because we are discussing it. We cannot meet without discussing border barriers, and I think that is fine. And Bertel is doing what he can to enlighten us. But let's finally get it, so we got it. It doesn't matter in these electronic times to attach it as an annex, that is, it certainly doesn't cost extra paper. Then I would say about those five institutions that have been pruned: Sami has been saved. I mean, we all shared that. Nordita from Stockholm, NIPS from Oslo and volcanology in Reykjavik were also subjected to a bit of pruning, whereas the purely Nordic Danish NIAS is really over the edge and hanging. Norway, Sweden and Iceland have decided to save them nationally, Denmark does not have that with Nias, and I think that is a problem. Because it is being used by the Nordic countries, it benefits the Nordic countries, and we have to either save it ourselves or also raise some money in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200822	Thanks for round two. First of all, I should like to send the annual report on this to the Danish delegation and call for it to be taken on the agenda at the next meeting. So just a comment again on how the respective countries have chosen to look into the basic funding of the institutions concerned: but when you look at the Nordic Council of Ministers' research budget, it has just looked like a significant part of the financing model actually meant that the funds were used primarily for permanent basic funding. And that is not something that we have considered appropriate to do under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers, that is to say, that the funds were used for basic funding. That's why the funds are being allocated to NordForsk in order to get those things out of competition. Then you can have a national discussion on how to choose to use research funds for different institutions, but it is all just a discussion that will take place with the respective trade minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200935	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. We will continue to the next subject area, and this is the debate on Nordic defence cooperation. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403200955	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your statement. I think it is thorough, and the statement, together with the very good consultation we had with the Minister not so terribly many weeks ago, makes it quite clear to me that Nordic defence and emergency cooperation is developing positively. I think there are more and more signs that countries from perhaps giving it a little step-motherly treatment are now beginning to take it seriously. It is, of course, against a gloomy background: there are things that have changed. What has changed first and foremost is the situation in the Baltic Sea. Here, in the Nordic countries, we have common goods, common features, perhaps more or less, because Iceland is quite a long way away, I admit that that is crucial for us. This is also reflected in the defence settlement that we entered into not so terribly many months ago. After all, there was a great deal of focus on the Baltic Sea and also on how we can ensure that we can protect the people of our countries in relation to the much more complex situation that exists and also in relation to the aggressiveness that we have seen from Russia. So far, it has probably been the case in Nordic defence cooperation that it has been a great deal about Denmark and Norway joining NATO, while Sweden and Finland were not, and it has somewhere complicated the dialogue and opportunities for cooperation. There has probably been little desire to cooperate, at least at times. I think we are seeing signs that it is not now that there are some who are in alliances and others who are not what separates us and that we cannot cooperate. There are more and more examples of this. I would just like to mention a few: first of all, I have no doubt for a moment that when it comes to emergency cooperation, it is becoming more and more important. The complexity we face, both in terms of wind and weather, but perhaps also in relation to the terrorist threat, etc., makes the cooperation on the Emergency Board both necessary and sensible. We also see that there will be more cash cooperation, for example on the basis of a request from the United Nations. I am thinking of transport flights to Mali, where both Denmark, Norway and Sweden, together with Belgium and Portugal, contribute to ensuring that there are transport flights throughout the year. Exactly the fact that you go together and work together and carry out some tasks, I think is the way forward. For example, when it comes to transport aircraft, Denmark is not able to have them down there all year round, but when countries come together, you can carry out a task that is important to the UN, so small states that come together in this way and solve some complicated tasks are, in my opinion, the way forward. We have also tried to work together to ensure that we may be able to buy equipment together. We have come some way with regard to combat uniforms. However, we also need to realise that among the Nordic countries there are a number of countries which actually produce military equipment themselves, and that is why it is probably limited how far it can be achieved. I would also like to say, with regard to Nordic co-operation and the Baltic, that here we are constantly seeing that we are being challenged. I understand that Russia will now be holding an exercise here on 6 April. There is probably not so much to say about this exercise, but it is at a very short notice that in a particular area of the Baltic Sea we will now suddenly be doing an exercise, and that is why I believe that precisely when it comes to coordination in this area, in other words in terms of airspace and everything else, we must continue the positive developments that have taken place in Nordic co-operation. Finally, I would like to endorse something which I am sure my good colleague, Mr President, will support. Bertel Haarder wants to leave. Honorable to the one to be honored. Sir. Bertel Haarder traveled among other things. on our consultation the question of whether we should have some sort of follow-up in relation to the Stoltenberg report. If sir... Bertel Haarder still thinks so, I just want to say that then the Social Democrats will give full support to it, because so much has happened since the Stoltenberg report, and that is why I think that some kind of status, but perhaps also more focus on some of what I have been talking about here, about what the new situation in the Baltic Sea is and what it all means for the Nordic countries, would be quite good to get up to date in one way or another. I would like to conclude by saying that, as far as defence cooperation is concerned, there is, of course, no doubt that it is with our alliance partners in the UN, NATO and in part in Europe that the decisive battles are being fought, but for me it is very, very clear that NORDEFCO cooperation, both in the field of preparedness and in the more military field, has become more important and will become even more important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403201437	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403201446	Thank you, President. I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for the report on the Nordic defence and preparedness cooperation. Nordic defence cooperation, which takes place primarily within the framework of NORDEFCO, is a work that I appreciate because of my association with the Nordic countries and, above all, my work in the Defence Committee. Over the last few years, better and better cooperation has been achieved between the countries, both in the defence field and in the field of preparedness, something that I, among others, have achieved. myself experienced when last year I was a participant in the annual Annual Security and Defence Forum held in Bergen and attended by defence ministers from the Scandinavian and Baltic countries. This is an interesting meeting which will be held in Poland this year in three weeks' time. By cooperating better in both defence and emergency situations, we are also much stronger. And since not all the Nordic countries are involved in NATO cooperation, it is good that our cooperation through NORDEFCO is also strengthened, partly through the implementation of the Easy Access Agreement signed in 2016, which underpins the possibility of easier military access to each other's maritime, air and land territories by simplifying administrative procedures. It allows for even closer and more operationally more effective military cooperation in peacetime. The decision between the Nordic Defence Ministers on a common radar data sharing, called NORECAS, is also of major importance, as the agreement aims at a much better sharing of data between the Nordic countries. We have also agreed through NORDEFCO to develop the existing Norwegian exercise, the Arctic Challenge Exercise, into an intensive flight exercise for the Nordic area, which has been successfully carried out under the auspices of NORDEFCO. In other words, the Nordic defence area has been very positive in the past year, and we welcome this. But let us not forget to keep up with what is going on in Russia. It is clear that our neighbour in the east also conducts major military exercises where they include: is very active in the Arctic and also training their soldiers at the North Pole. Russia also has seven strong radar stations from Norway's border to the Bering Strait, and in the southern Baltic Sea they are also engaged in major military and maritime exercises, not to mention the many overflights carried out each year in the area around Bornholm. It is therefore a good thing that we are getting better at precisely defence cooperation. We very much need to show to Russia that the Nordic countries have strong and effective defence cooperation, both through NORDEFCO and NATO. In the area of capacity building, we are pleased with the government's cooperation with the Nordic countries in training and education, both in East Africa and in cooperation with the Baltic countries in Georgia. This is a good example of how we in the Nordic countries are better at meeting together on the tasks. We also see this with the new agreements that have been concluded on joint Nordic procurement, among other things. new combat uniforms. The ambition that a new policy framework document for NORDEFCO cooperation can be presented at the ministerial meeting in autumn 2018 is therefore very good. In the field of preparedness, Haga cooperation helps to strengthen the resilience of the Nordic region, especially with regard to the political situation, terrorism, migration, extreme weather, hybrid threats and cyberterrorism. The joint efforts strengthen preparedness in the Nordic countries and help address risks peculiar to the Nordic countries. But also in the event of international disasters, the Nordic countries are working closely together, among others. by supporting the UN under the auspices of IHP, International Humanitarian Partnership. Finally, I would like to mention the close cooperation that has been going on for more than 50 years on the development of the voluntary homeguard in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. This joint cooperation shall work, inter alia, on: in the framework of SKANDIA to develop better special courses and joint optimization and training in the field of education for the Home Guard in the three countries. It is a cooperation which now extends to the voluntary military organisations in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, where there is a close dialogue on the security policy challenges and their importance to the volunteers. In the big world we are small, and everything else equal we are much stronger through cooperation. This is true both in the North and in the Baltic countries. With these words, I would like to conclude my speech and thank the Minister once again for his statement this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403201922	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next speaker is Mr. Bertel Haarder, rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403201936	Thank you, President. From a superficial point of view, the Nordic countries are divided. Three countries are part of NATO, three countries are part of the EU. Only Denmark is with both places, but Denmark is not, after all, because precisely in the field of defence we are not part of EU cooperation, unlike Sweden and Finland, which are happy to participate in it. So from a superficial point of view, we are divided, and we have also felt divided for many decades. And that has helped us to see ourselves as small states. After all, there is no rational reason why not all the Nordic countries are part of NATO. When the whole of the Baltic and all Baltic countries except Russia are involved, it is quite incomprehensible that Sweden and Finland are not. But we Danes should not point the finger at this, because it is no more incomprehensible than that the Danes are not involved in the EU's defence cooperation. We must live with what, for a superficial view, looks like division, but we must be aware that for the past 20 to 30 years nothing has stood in the way of cooperation, even in the field of defence. Moreover, there is nothing to justify the fact that we should be so small. We are small in our own opinion, but the truth is that the Nordic countries together are absolutely not small. The total gross domestic product is greater than that of Russia. We have the world's largest merchant fleet combined and, incidentally, also amazingly strong aircraft forces when you add them together. They are at the level of the largest EU countries. We are covering an incredibly important area, the Arctic, the North Atlantic and the Baltic Sea, which is full of risk factors, but it is our lot to keep track of it and to ensure that it does not become a defence vacuum that can be tempted. I think it was true what the Conservative British journal The Economist wrote a few years ago after assessing all the risks that exist in the Nordic region of the Arctic. The magazine concluded that thanks to the pragmatic and relaxed Nordic countries it would probably not go completely wrong in that area of the world. It is really a huge compliment, and we must continue to play that role together, in cooperation, because we are not threatening anyone. It is not credible to claim that we are threatening Russia, for example. That is why I would like to stress that there is nothing that stands in the way of closer Nordic defence cooperation. Ask at the Pentagon, I did so in the autumn when the Danish UN delegation was visiting. I must not refer to what was said, but the conclusion was quite clear: it can only strengthen both the North and NATO that we cooperate more in defence. What is lacking for Sweden and Finland is, of course, the guarantee contained in Article 5 of the NATO Pact, but that is their problem. That is not an argument against defence cooperation. This, moreover, leads them to give extra weight, which in a number of ways is an advantage for the rest of us. That is why I am so pleased that Denmark has finally stopped dragging its feet when it comes to defence cooperation. We have, but we do not do that anymore. We have everything to gain and nothing to lose about it, and the position of the other NATO countries is that the more, the better, the better, because we are not threatening anyone. So let's put aside the small-state mentality. Let us take a more leading role both in the European Union and in the area we cover. We're not as small as we think we are. President Obama was right in saying that we can punch over our weight, and this is also due to the enormous respect for the Nordic communities, which threaten no one but are increasingly seen as an example to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403202500	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403202506	It makes sense to have close coordination of Nordic defence cooperation, but I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left, of course, I agree that it is strange that some are members of NATO and some are not members of NATO. I would like everyone not to be a member of NATO and to be non-aligned, as I think it is better in relation to a world order where we can see ourselves instead of being a member of an imperial and aggressive, not even defence union, but military union. And I think that the constant pressure on Finland and Sweden is both untimely and not very sensible. It is to the benefit of the Nordic countries that at least some of the countries are outside NATO and that we therefore have an alliance-free party, or rather two parties, in Nordic co-operation. Imagine if one day we got there in Denmark too. The positive aspect is to focus in particular on cooperation on UN peacekeeping missions and capacity building in that area, territorial defence in the Arctic area, North Atlantic areas and preparedness. We need to expand the emergency response. There are, in fact, very many good climate and also political reasons why we have a common response. It can be much, much better • I am thinking in particular of the fact that when the Arctic becomes more busy when Greenland and the Faroe Islands become more busy, there is a real need to solve tasks that we cannot solve alone. We see great potential in the joint Nordic disarmament initiatives, especially in the Baltic region, and we think that the objective of a nuclear-free Baltic Sea, especially our belts, but a nuclear-free North, should be revitalized on the road to a non-militarised Arctic. We are too visionless when we talk about which way we want to go with these things. We're only talking about the threat we're trying to see if we can spot one place or another. Why not have visions that go a little further and say that this is what we are working for, rather than saying that we are working to have a strong military so that we can threaten the others? It's pretty visionless, though. We also want Denmark to be more involved in building capacity in conflict resolution and peace research and in strengthening cooperation with our neighbours, which are much further ahead than we are. Every other country's universities have peace and conflict research units; we only have a temporary grant for the University of Copenhagen, which has now expired, and a temporary grant for Aarhus University. It is a scandal that we have abolished the Peace and Conflict Resolution Institute at the University of Copenhagen and we must rebuild it. Then there are some areas that are not mentioned at all in this and where I think we could also have some vision. For example: better control of the arms trade and, in the longer term, a halt to arms production in the Nordic countries would be very visionary and very sensible. Why on earth should we contribute to arms being sent out into the world? Now I don't know the figures for Sweden I know they're a big producer but I know the figures for Germany: Every 14 minutes a person dies from a weapon from Germany every 14 minutes every year! Imagine a responsibility to take on as a weapons-producing state. I do not believe that you can be free from responsibility when you produce weapons. Then I would like us to work systematically with nuclear weapons-free zones, including the Arctic. I have a question and a proposal to the Minister who is here now, and he is such a trade minister in this area. We heard the Minister for Nordic Cooperation say that earlier. Alternative landing base agreement no. 2 must include, it says, the possibility of landing armed aircraft in each other's countries. So I have to ask: is this a breach with an historic long principle that we do not want nuclear weapons on Danish territory, just as we do not want nuclear weapons in our healthy ports or in our ports? Otherwise, I don't understand what that means. And is it not enough that one should just be invited to come if it is the case that some countries want to be visited by the military of the other countries? That was a question. The second is a proposal. Could we not allocate part of that more unilateral military hardware and say that we are building up a standing Nordic peace-building and peace-keeping force at the disposal of the UN in operations in war zones, like the old SHIRBRIG? Then, within 24 or 48 hours, we could be present in a place where there was conflict; be the first to establish structures that we are really good at; be the first to perhaps prevent a crisis becoming a war and perhaps help to create some more peace in the world. Then our soldiers and our military benefits were done, and then we also did so, that we could show an example of how to prevent instead of helping to escalate wars.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203048	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203059	Thank you for that, President. Finally, I am pleased to be able to give the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation a few words along the way. I am in fact experiencing a rather large degree of consensus on this cooperation, which the statement expresses. This cooperation is precisely a good example of an area in which it makes very good sense for the Nordic countries to work closely together and coordinate their efforts. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the recent agreement on radar data sharing, which is super-concrete and which the Nordic countries have now entered into with each other. This also applies to military exercises organised jointly by the Nordic countries and the joint development of response capacities in situations of extreme weather, terrorism, hybrid threats and cyberterrorism. It is all in order to be able to assist each other together in different conflict situations and to ensure a secure and well-functioning society. We in the Liberal Alliance think this is both meaningful and sensible. It must then be able to be classified under Nordic added value, especially because it is made lowpractical and it is made unbureaucratic and only when it makes sense. That is a good starting point, and with these words we take note of the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203237	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203245	Thank you and first of all thank you to the Minister for the statement. Several rapporteurs before me have mentioned what has happened in the years that have gone by, and that is why I would really like to focus a little on the future. Now, in the course of 2018, a new vision of defence, more specifically for NORDEFCO, is to be negotiated, and that is where we have a very special wish in the alternative, and that is conflict resolution. It appears from NORDEFCO's website that a long-term and broad approach to security is being adopted, and, to me, it must also necessarily include conflict resolution as a focus area. But oddly enough, it is not something that fills anything, not on the website at least. Here on 10 January there was a conference in the Danish Parliament on conflict resolution, and I was there with colleagues from the SF, the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party. Ironically enough, the rapporteurs from the government parties were not there, because there was, I believe, a company visit to the defence industry on the same day. But in any case, I would like to share some of what we learned at that conference, and that is that if you work on conflict resolution, if you work on conflict prevention, it really does pay off in the long run, also financially. So this is actually a call for us to include in the visions that come a very strong focus on conflict resolution research, but also on the whole work on conflict resolution. If we do this together in the Nordic countries, we can really have a crucial role internationally, so let us give priority to what we can do especially in the Nordic countries, or which we should be able to do especially in the Nordic countries, both when it comes to research into conflict resolution, but also to work on conflict resolution and conflict prevention internationally. Because here I really think we can play a very special role, not to make ourselves stronger or to think narrowly about security in the Nordic countries, but to think about creating a better world and a safer world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203456	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As the remaining rapporteurs are covered from the other side, we give the floor to the Minister for Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203507	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate. It seems to me that they have confirmed the political interest in Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. The defence and emergency area is the foundation of our efforts to ensure a secure and robust society. Nordic co-operation in these areas will also contribute in the future to strengthening our resilience for the benefit of Nordic societies and citizens. The report on the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation shows that there is considerable Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. These are important areas where significant developments have taken place in recent years. But there are also areas that can continue to develop. As you know, in the Nordic countries, we have developed our defence and security policy differently, and this is clarified by our different membership of NATO and the European Union. However, the common challenges that we all face in the Nordic region mean that there is a lot to work together and share knowledge about these years. Of course, I am thinking in particular of Russia's actions, which continue to create considerable uncertainty. A special focus area in the new defence settlement is therefore the security of our neighbourhood, which we share with our Nordic neighbours. If you look at other similar regional defence cooperation, there is no doubt that NORDEFCO cooperation is something of a regional role model for other countries in Europe. We can cooperate closely, despite various security policy links with the European Union and NATO, while at the same time working in a pragmatic and non-bureaucratic way without large and expensive secretariats. The common challenges have shown that the Nordic countries are able to move closer together in order to find common solutions to the security situation in the neighbourhood, including the Baltic region and the Baltic States. At the same time, there must be no doubt that Denmark's security depends first and foremost on our NATO membership. With these words, I will conclude my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203754	Thank you very much. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203759	I would like to remind the Minister that I put a question in my speech on the Alternative Landing Base Agreement No. 2, that is to say, whether we should now lift a principle of not wanting military troops from other countries with atomic weapons. It has been a fundamental principle of Danish defence and foreign policy as long as I have been an adult, and there has been a fierce debate about it when we have talked about Greenland, when we have talked about Storebælt, Lillebælt and Øresund. The second is the question that I asked whether we should not try to prioritise some of the Nordic forces to a standing Nordic peace-keeping force and make it available to the UN for action in war zones on an equal footing with the Nordic SHIRBRIG, which we had a number of years ago, located in North Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403203856	On the question of landing rights, if I may say so, an agreement has been reached during the Danish Presidency in 2016 in NORDEFCO aimed at creating easier military access to each other's air and land territories in peacetime in order to simplify and make administrative procedures more flexible. Work is now under way to develop a Nordic easy access implementation plan, and this work is well under way, and ultimately the individual Nordic countries will have to draw up their own easy access declarations on how to allow access to their own territory. After all, none of the Nordic countries have nuclear weapons, so I do not really understand the question from the Enhedslisten. After all, none of the Nordic countries has nuclear weapons, so it is a hypothetical fact that this agreement should mean that our countries' aircraft have nuclear weapons on board. As far as the question of a standing force is concerned, in the period 1996-2009 there was the so-called SHIRBRIG brigade. It was a multinational stand-by brigade at high-readiness for action in UN operations, and it participated in several UN missions in Africa, and it had the participation of several countries, including the Nordic countries, however minus Iceland. It was abolished in 2009 when the Member States found that, among other things, there was an increase in the number of jobs created in the EU. were other forums that were better suited to supporting UN operations, and we must say that we still have faith.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204100	Sir. Christian Juhl, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204103	Former ministers have also said that this was a strange question and that, of course, there are no nuclear weapons on the ships and aircraft coming to Denmark. That has proved to be untrue, and that is why I am asking the current Minister for Defence: can the Minister guarantee that no ships will come and land aircraft from other countries with atomic weapons? I will be absolutely sure of that, especially when you work as much as you do now, to update the so-called Alternative landing base agreement no. 2, that is to say, the agreement on a level two where you have to be able to land aircraft that are armed. We are in a NATO community and other countries may have rules other than Denmark, so I would like to ask: can the Minister guarantee that we will not get nuclear-powered aircraft and ships into Denmark? The second is: Why are SHIRBRIG-like activities no longer needed? The world is more concerned than it was in 2009, so what other forums have made it unnecessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204208	Finally, I can say that it is NATO that it is the coalitions that have been formed in different contexts that it is through the European Union that have stabilising actions around it, among other things. In Africa, that is the way it is organized. I can say that we are also participating, together with the Nordic countries, Belgium and Portugal, in rotation schemes to assist around, among others. in Mali, the so-called MINUSMA operation. So, of course, you can say that things never remain permanent, but at the moment. The assessment has been that this task could be done better in forms other than by having a brigade standing on high Readiness. As far as Denmark's nuclear policy is concerned, it remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204317	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180403204328	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 4 April 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
