ParlaMint-DK_20180222100019	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing, Jacob Mark, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 26 February 2018 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Tina Boel's duties as a member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Public Innovation (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 150 (Proposal for a law on the issue of NemID with public digital signature for natural persons and for employees in legal entities). Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Karen Ellemann): Bill No. L 151 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries. Martin Henriksen (DF), Mattias Tesfaye (S) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to withdraw the residence permit of the holder of parental responsibility if he or she sends his or her child on a re-educational trip abroad). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100138	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100158	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100238	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100304	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100333	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100351	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3-13, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now I have taken a little break, so I would like to ask that there be some peace for the treatment of the first treatment we are going to have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100632	The debate is open. It's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222100718	Thank you for that, President. Then we settled down, and it was good. Very frequently, and also fully understandable, we are talking about how we can increase safety and be sufficiently careful when it comes to IT systems, information systems and network systems in health care, as well as when we talk about information systems in all kinds of other areas. That is why it is very good and sensible for the European Parliament to have had the same debate and to have adopted an EU directive which is commonly referred to as the NIS directive, the aim of which is to ensure that incidents or disruptions which can have a negative impact on healthcare systems and care and patient safety in the national health services of the European Union and in health services at all are avoided. That is why this directive, which we now have to transpose into Danish law, proposes that public and private entities providing this kind of health care services should take the necessary and appropriate measures, both technically and organisationally, in order to improve safety. It is the case that it is anchored in the Ministry of Health and the Elderhood, but there will also be a reference to the Centre for Cybersecurity, which we also need to have, and with which there must necessarily be a close dialogue about these possible incidents and how to ensure proper learning of them if they happen. According to this directive, all suppliers and operators will be obliged to comply with what is the content of the law, and a supervisory authority will also be set up in relation to those operators who provide what the directive calls essential health services. In Denmark we have the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, and they are also an element in it, but it is anchored in the Ministry of Health and the Elders' Department. But the Health Minister can ask the Health Data Protection Agency to do some of the supervision and control parts that will be needed in connection with this. Social democracy supports this bill and we think that the NIS directive is generally very good. After all, we know that we must not only ensure that the law is in place and the framework on paper is in place, but that we must also ensure that enforcement takes place. It is understandable when there are discussions from time to time as to whether safety and caution have been enforced well enough. I can say that we, as health rapporteurs, are also being informed by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly and the Minister for Health in this area. And it is very good that a practice has been introduced in this way, because we all bear a very great responsibility. However, the implementation of this directive places responsibility in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly and in the Centre for Cybersecurity. So we support this bill and think it's a fine bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101033	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101044	As the previous rapporteur has mentioned, this is about the NIS directive, and the NIS is a shortening of network and information systems, just to make it clear, now that we are going to deal with so much in terms of abbreviations. At a time when patient data, network security, is an essential part of our communication system, it is necessary for the Danish People's Party to see that we ensure that the citizens' information we have enjoys the greatest possible security. That is why we agree with the draft law and the aim of now achieving a high level of safety for healthcare networks and information systems in order to avoid incidents that interfere with health care, care and patient safety. All public and private actors providing health services are therefore also responsible for maintaining the necessary safety. In the event of an outcome, these institutions are required to inform both the Minister for Health and the Centre for Cybersecurity. Danes who are in contact with health care must feel safe when they need treatment, and therefore we see this as an important part of our entire IT system. Yesterday we heard criticism from the State auditors that several of the public institutions were not safe enough in terms of ransomware attacks. In other words, the State auditors found that, for example, The protection of the Health Data Protection Agency was not satisfactory. However, it has also been said that it was satisfactory that measures have been implemented over the past 12 months. But this shows just how vulnerable one can be in a system where there is a great deal of information about patients, which we will probably also discuss in the next legislative proposal. That is why we agree with this. So we need security against the hackers who can get into our systems. In general, there must be security for patients' data in the network and communication systems that we have. That is why we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101307	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101312	Cybercrime and cybersecurity are not only a national but also, to a large extent, an international issue. Cyber criminals don't know about national borders. That is why it makes good sense for us today to deal first with a legislative proposal in which precisely network and information security in our computer systems is implemented through an EU directive, so that we in the European Union achieve the same high level of safety, not only in the field of health, but also in areas as diverse as drinking water supply, financial structure and shipping, to mention just a few examples. In Danish we call the directive the NIS directive. Network and information security is essential not only for our society but also for each of us. Living in a digital age is in many ways an age gift. Many things have become so much easier because we are moving in a friction-free digital everyday life. We can produce dental crowns for each of us digitally, we can follow operations online and learn from each other, just as we can store our personal information from cradle to jar or as genome in a single file. No one has to stand upside down in dusty filing cabinets to find out old information. Welcome to the brave new world of all those with the best intentions and unfortunately also to those who have only one purpose: sabotage, destroy and abuse. We must stop them so that they do not end up with either hacking or abuse. Many remember the Mærsk attack back in 2013 against police computer records... it gave hackers access to millions of Danish cpr numbers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. kr., or the attack on the English health service, where the hackers tried to demand ransom to reopen the locked files. Yes, unfortunately, the lists are long. And yes, we need to take stock of the situation in our brave new world so that we can all have our personal information in peace. Vital services essential to the maintenance of critical social or economic activities in the health sector must be capable of being maintained. Operators of essential services shall in future take appropriate technical and organisational measures, and the operator shall inform the competent authority in the event of incidents which have a significant impact on the service. I get worried when I read in the newspaper that the IT security of the general practitioners is hollow, that the software is not updated, that backups are inadequate, and that the passwords used at the Danish medical clinics are too simple. A cpr number in the wrong hands can have major consequences for the owner of the cpr number: identity theft, now to mention one example, or blackmail, now to mention another example. Our medical records contain highly sensitive personal data, and doctors also have an obligation to look after them. After all, it is so much about trust in our entire healthcare system and not just in the individual doctor. The NIS directive must be implemented in Danish law by 10 May of this year, so now it is about tightening the bar dunes from east to west so that everyone can report clear and ensure that we are at the same level as the safety levels for network and information systems across the EU. Finally, let me make it clear that we in the Left are confident that the supervisory authority lies primarily with the Danish Health Data Protection Agency and the Danish Data Protection Agency. The Left can support the bill as tabled, and I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur, who is unfortunately ill today, and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101654	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101702	My colleagues have already explained that this bill is about implementing a directive from the European Union, which is about ensuring a common high level of safety for network and information systems that we have in the field of health care. It is, of course, very important that we do so and the intention is very good. It also appears that in Denmark it will be Defence Intelligence in the form of the Center for Cybersecurity, which will have to carry out the task of the national IT emergency unit, where you will have to take part. handle alerts on some of the significant events that may occur. That's what the law calls CSIRT. There are several consultation responses that address this, even if you look across some of the other areas, because this directive should not only be implemented in the field of health. It also needs to be implemented at inter alia. transport and business, and we can see that there are some of the same concerns, the same consultation answers that go back. This is among other things. The Institute for Human Rights points out that this may be problematic because the Defence Intelligence Service operates under some rules other than other public authorities. It acts among other things. on the Public Act, the Personal Data Act and the Administrative Act. That is why it is our view that this task of being the national contact point in Denmark, when it comes to the security of these civil society structures, should also be carried out by a civil authority, not the Defence Intelligence Service. Alternatively, at least some requirements should be made to ensure that the data protection rules that must be in this area apply to these data. So the concerns, such as: The Institute for Human Rights travels when we look at the transport part of this directive and in our area we have a critical consultation response from the IT-Politics Association • are some concerns that we need to clarify further. So, although we are positive about the intention of the bill to ensure a high level of protection, we would like to ask more about this part about the role of the Defence Intelligence Service and also about the specific one written by the IT Politics Association that they believe that there can be doubts as to whether there is any response to the directive's requirement that people should be able to protect sensitive information.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101935	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222101944	Thank you. IT security is the alpha and omega in our society, and this proposal is intended to implement the so-called NIS directive in Danish health legislation. The NIS Directive must ensure a high level of information security in a number of different sectors. In the field of health, it is extremely important that citizens can have confidence that their data is adequately protected. It can undermine confidence in the health system if the digital infrastructure is not in order. The proposal is of minor importance to health operators as they must already meet a high level of safety. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102028	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Stjernholm, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102038	Thank you for the floor. I stand here as a poor substitute for Pernille Schnoor. The health sector is so dependent on a well-functioning and safe system, and this applies among other things. hospitals, the practice sector and municipal care. The alternative is therefore positive with regard to the NIS directive, as it will strengthen data security in health care, but we, like other rapporteurs and parties, are critical of its implementation. Basically, we are critical of the government's location of the task of Defence Intelligence, as the FE is exempt from the EU rules on data protection, which are specifically required in the directive. The Danish implementation is therefore in danger of going directly against the NIS directive. We consider this to be problematic and will ask further questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102129	Thank you. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102135	Thank you. I am also here to replace the health rapporteur Marlene Borst Hansen. After all, this bill, which many rapporteurs have now examined, aims to implement part of the directive on network and information systems, but the part that concerns the health sector. We also think in the Radical Left, like many others, that it is quite obvious that when our society and public institutions do that they do; we have also seen examples of this being more and more digitised, it is also crucial that network and information security is included. I think we have seen examples of the fact that this area has in recent years become a target for actions aimed at disrupting the operation of digital systems, and that is what this draft law must address by raising the level of network and information security in the health sector. That is a good thing, and we can support it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102239	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102245	Thank you. It has already been said so far several times now that this bill has to implement the so-called NIS directive and that the aim of the directive is to ensure a high common level of safety for energy, transport, banking, financial and, therefore, health care systems, which we are dealing with here. The Directive requires Member States to designate one or more national competent authorities for the safety of network and information systems in the sectors concerned to carry out the supervisory function, and the Health Data Protection Board is then appointed in the field of health. In addition, however, Member States must also designate authorities to perform the function, on the one hand, as a national central contact point, and, on the other hand, the so-called CSIRT to carry out IT security incidents. In Denmark, the implementation will identify only one contact point and one CSIRT, which will be under the Cybersecurity Centre, which will then take care of a number of functions. It is very good that the government wants to implement the directive and important with a high level of security, but rather questionable that the National Central Contact Point and CSIRT should be placed under the Centre for Cybersecurity in the Defence Intelligence Service, which is exempt from data protection rules and public disclosure law. So both the IT-Politics Association and the Institute for Human Rights are very critical in their hearing response. In the SF, of course, we are in favour of implementing the directive, but, as we have said in the other resort areas where the directive also needs to be implemented, we are critical that the central contact point and the CSIRT should be under the Cybersecurity Centre. We therefore hope that during the committee procedure we can have a discussion on the criticisms that have been made and that have rightly been pointed out by professionals in connection with the Danish implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102443	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222102451	Thank you for your comments on the bill. The draft law, as many of you have mentioned, implements parts of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures to ensure a high common level of security for network and information systems across the European Union. What we are discussing today is what applies in the health sector. After all, there is no doubt that the NIS directive is a key part of the European Commission's comprehensive cyber package, with the overall aim of creating resilience and deterrence and defending the pan-European area against cyber threats, thereby also increasing the confidence of European citizens in digital solutions. In Denmark, we are implementing the directive sector-by-sector, and we are doing so to a large extent, that the requirements and the parts implemented are also related to the sector we are talking about in this case the health sector, which is different from the transport sector and some of the other areas that are also sector-by-sector implementation of the directive. Being resistant to cyber threats is highly topical, including in the health sector. Increased dependency on digital solutions also provides an increased vulnerability to events that may mean that health care cannot maintain the necessary level of functioning. If we just look right across the North Sea to Britain, in recent years we saw how a hacker attack put the health care system down. The consequence was that agreements disappeared and treatments had to be postponed, and many were concerned about whether their health data had been compromised, whether they had been stolen and whose hands they had fallen in. Later in the year, last year, Mærsk was subjected to a worldwide hacker attack, which also had very serious consequences in terms of decommissioning for several days and a very large financial loss for the company. So when we look at it, this is definitely not an area we can take lightly. The health sector requires that we also have an increased focus on security in our digital systems. Last year, a unanimous Parliament was behind seven principles for the use of health data. The first of these principles are very much about data security. I think it is worth highlighting today, because I also see the NIS directive and the transposition into Danish legislation as one of the many steps and important steps we need to take to protect the health information of the Danes and also to ensure a more efficient health care system. Most recently, with the Finance Act together with the Danish People's Party, we have lifted cyber and information security in the health sector financially, and it is also important to ensure implementation that we not only have the regulatory framework, but also concretely ensure that it is implemented. This bill focuses on how we in Denmark can maintain a strong and functional healthcare where security incidents are not allowed to have a disruptive effect on patient treatment. We also need to ensure with the bill the digital services that are essential in health care. This also means, according to the draft law, that the operators who provide services, which are essential for maintaining health care and care through a network and information system, will have to work risk-based and also work more with their safety management. Specifically, this means that they must take appropriate security measures that are proportionate to the risk. That is why there is also a discussion about what the economy is in this. The draft law also requires operators to inform the Danish Health Data Protection Agency and Cybersecurity Center as soon as possible once a safety incident has been recognised. In this way, the Danish Health Data Protection Agency is given the opportunity to collect knowledge about the events taking place in the healthcare system, and the Cybersecurity Centre is given the opportunity to react and, if possible, prevent the incident from spreading to other countries and within the country. In addition, the bill establishes a state supervision, which will be delegated to the Danish Health Data Protection Agency. In our opinion, the Health Data Protection Agency is the health institution which already has roles in the area of information security and has competences in this area. It is therefore also the natural place to place supervision. Monitoring will also have to ensure that operators comply with a level of safety commensurate with the risk. This oversight of operators and the notification obligation in relation to security threats and security incidents, where notifications will also have to go to both the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, but also to the Cybersecurity Centre, must, of course, greatly help us to better protect ourselves from incidents and cyberattacks, but it must also ensure that if there are compromising attacks on sensitive personal data, for example. citizens' health information, also gets a knowledge of it, whether small or large attacks. I expect and hope that the law will help us to maintain a robust and safe healthcare system where operations can be maintained and where citizens also have confidence in the digital solutions that we have in healthcare, because we will see many more of them. So I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, answer any questions the committee may have under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222103011	Thank you, Minister. There are no comments and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222103027	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222103043	Thank you. After all, we change the health law from time to time, and we must, because it is a very unifying law. It must constantly provide the best framework for health policy in Denmark, for patients' safety and for patients' treatment. It is with great pleasure that we have now reached this draft law on the creation of a national genome centre. And what is it about? It is, of course, a matter of rapid development in medical treatment, and that is why we need to have structures in our health services which can also include the latest measures. What we are talking about here is what is referred to as personal medicine. And what is personal medicine? It is medicine where, with much, much greater certainty than is often possible today, when you are taking patients, you can say that the medicine will work. Today, there is often doubt as to whether the medicine is working or not. Many say that a very large part of the cancer medicine we give to cancer patients does not work and that perhaps only a fifth of patients will benefit from it, but everyone experiences the side effects. Many experts say that with personal medicine there is a revolution in the field, because with the background of the individual's genes that is being tested, a gene sequencing can now say with great precision that the medicine will work. That is why we now need to change the health law and create a national genome centre. I mean, this national genome center has to have multiple purposes. It must primarily ensure that all the thoughts and structures we put down over collecting data at individual level are also managed and managed in a safe way. It is the case today that many of the hospitals in the country are being re-tested, and once the test has been done, this information is stored in databases in hospitals around the country. What you want with a national genome centre is that in future, when these gene tests are being made, there must be an obligation for all the information to be sent to the national genome centre, where these data are stored in the best and most secure way possible. It is for the sake of safety, but it is also for the purpose of researching and developing this collection, which is thus located in the national genome centre. Many people believe that the fact that the information is available today in so many places, i.e. in a decentralized structure, does not provide the optimal safety in relation to something as essential as a genetic material and the information associated with the fact that a genetic test has been carried out. We've been working very politically on this bill. Some would have liked it to have been presented earlier. On the socialist side, we are very pleased that there has been such thorough political preparation of this bill. Many adjustments and changes have been made towards the draft law, as it is now, which is good and which is necessary. That is why we also welcome the fact that there is a very, very broad political agreement behind this bill. I will go down into a few elements. The national genome centre will have the task of developing and operating a common national information structure for personal medicine, which I mentioned earlier. We must also ensure that this central authority is set up to ensure confidentiality and also to take new, necessary development measures in this area. Because this is an area where development is happening at a rapid pace. We are very pleased that the draft law has included individual patients with self-determination, so that it can be said as an individual that the information contained in the national genome centre can only be used in connection with one's own treatment, and in the same way it can also be said that the data on one's gene sequencing can be used for other purposes. It is, of course, anonymised and encrypted with all the security there is, but it can be used in research contexts. I have two quotes with which I would very much like to support my rapporteur's speech. One comes from the director of Danske Patienter, Morten Freil. Danish Patients is an umbrella organisation for almost all patients' organisations in Denmark. The quote reads: ▪ The use of genetic materials in the development of medicines has a huge potential for patients who in the future can receive more targeted treatment instead of having to go through long courses with medicines that do not work or have major side effects. ▪ Another quotation I would like to mention is from the four health deans of the four medical faculties in Denmark, and the quote is: • As deans of the country's four health science faculties responsible for medical education, we fully support the work of establishing the National Genom Center, which we consider to be an important prerequisite for future research and patient care. It has been discussed a great deal, as I said, and there have been critical voices about safety and storage and that it was a question here that everyone could only get a share in the data which, of course, if they are not encrypted and secured, can be very sensitive to get out into the wider community. I believe that with this bill we have taken all the possible measures and that the law also ensures that in future we must always build security on the latest technology so that we provide real security and security for citizens. I believe that this increases self-determination, the rights of the individual, and we also believe that security, as envisaged here, is in place. What has been important in the latter part of the legislative proposal has been to clarify and establish a narrow framework for the use of data. Some people have discussed it and said that this could also be a question of data falling into the wrong hands, such as those of insurance companies. I am extremely pleased that we have clarified and established with seven-inch nails that we have legislation that says separately that we cannot do so, but we have also got it written in here. So, as clearly as I can say as the rapporteur here, I think we have taken all the reservations. And I would like to thank all the many stakeholders who have contributed incredibly constructively towards this bill. Let these be the words of the Social Democratic Party and, as you can hear, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222103823	Thank you. No one has any comments on that. Here you go, Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222103832	Thank you very much. I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for giving us the time needed to get a very good and informative review of this proposal. We have held several meetings with stakeholders, organisations that are opposed to the bill and organisations that are in favour of the bill and this point about the right to self-determination versus the health that can be gained in the future in relation to others, we have discussed a lot. As far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, it means a great deal to us that we have the right to self-determination and consent to the processing and sharing of data, because that is what is important here. That is why we are very pleased that we are now having a legislative proposal in which we can see ourselves. But we still have some extra questions, because our mailboxes are being flooded with mail from some people in these days, which we naturally owe answers. That is why we are still going to come up with some questions in committee so that we ensure that people know that this is not about simply taking people's data and using them as you like and selling them to anyone, and so that we counter what else has been of speculation about what you do when it is that you sequence. There have been a lot of stories that the National Genomcenter will collect and store the DNA of Danish citizens, and that is factually wrong. It says in the bill that it is gene sequencing, that is to say analysis of our DNA, which is future, and that means that if you have agreed to a gene sequencing, it will be included in the National Genomcenter; it is not by old tests. These are tests from people who can volunteer if it might be interesting that the tests for their disease are compared to their DNA. So I think we should try to stick to the facts. We must make it understandable to the citizens. This has also been a difficult case, technically. We should be better at communicating it out, for example, that a decision to disclaim that an analysis is being used for other purposes is recorded in the Vævsforsakringsregisteret, which can be found on borger.dk and health.dk. We must, of course, do much better. I tried to search myself at some point, but in vain, and it was precisely because I had forgotten some words on the website itself. But it has to be better, it has to be understandable. That's why we've got it into this bill, so that when you come up to the doctor and the doctor say: Here it would be good to analyze your genes, so that you can get the right medicine for the disease you now have, you can say yes or no, and that helps the doctor fill out a form you can sign. So I am glad that we made an agreement so that we also ensure that this becomes a reality, because that is what we will see in the future, precisely when it comes to personal medicine. As some of the previous rapporteurs also mentioned, we can see that it has already been started in some places in connection with cancer treatment, and instead of treating with 5,6,8 different types of chemotherapy, you can take a sample and get to know exactly what it is for some cells, and by comparing it with samples from other people who have had the same form, you will be told exactly which medicine to shoot with, and thus you will be able to get the cancer right away. It is the future, but of course you have to secure the consent of the individual when it is that you use a personal date. Then there is the security that we mentioned in connection with the previous proposal: we need an IT system that is safe, even when you collect the information. We must ensure that the system cannot be hacked, that others cannot go in and get information, and that security is done, among other things. using pseudonymisation and anonymisation. That way, people need to feel safe when they come to a doctor and say yes to this. As I have said, many of the people who have written here in the last few days that they do not want their data to be shared or that they are geno-sequencing should, of course, have the right to say no, and they have, of course, been given that right according to the agreement we have concluded, but in doing so they cannot become geno-sequenced and, of course, do not get the precise treatment either, because you cannot see which one should be. Of course, we must also be able to inform the public about this consequence. So I will conclude by adding some of the things that we agreed on. We have agreed that the bill lays down a strict framework for the use of genetic information in the National Genome Centre, according to the right to self-determination over own genetic information. It follows from the Health Act that the patient must consent to treatment and diagnostics, including for gene sequencing. It has been agreed that the current state of law should be described in greater detail and that the requirements for consent should be clarified, including that the patient should receive information on the patient's right of self-determination. Only gene sequencings made after the establishment of the National Genomcenter can be reported. That is the agreement we have made, and we are quite happy with it, so we are at least positive and look forward to further discussion in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222104409	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222104416	Today, we are first examining a draft law on a new national genome centre. A new national genome centre, yes, it sounds almost like taken out of a science fiction story, and it is perhaps also understood in that way that today we have the opportunity to design medicine and treatment specifically and target it to each of us based on our very own unique genome, a great opportunity for those people who suffer from a serious, perhaps a hereditary disease, and whom no one had thought it would be possible to treat or remedy just a few years ago. Cancer patients, heart patients and schizophrenia patients are good examples of patient groups that may in many cases benefit from treatment with personal medicine defined from a gene sequence. In other words, our genes can give us answers about what the individual patient can specifically benefit from treatment. We know that not all medications work on all patients. Yeah, actually, we know that up to 75%. cancer patients experience that their first treatment does not work. And with personal medicine there is potential to reduce that number. If you ask patients, the vast majority are positive about the use of personal medicine. Eighty-three percent. In a study by the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Danes replied that they would accept a genetic test if they were offered it as part of a medical treatment. But our genes can not only be used to help with the treatment, the genes can also be used to help us identify diseases and prevent them. People who carry genes, as codes for serious hereditary diseases, have the possibility of genetic counselling if they, for example, are able to do so. want to have children. People carrying genes, such as codes for serious hereditary diseases, have the opportunity to have their family examined so as to prevent and intervene with early treatment and save lives or to ensure an improved quality of life. Let me give you a personal example. When my father suddenly died ten years ago unexpectedly, no one in the family had thought that the reason for his death could be found in the genes of the family. For us, it was a gift to find out the cause. I'm the mother of three children, and I know because I've had a genetic test that I inherited my father's sick gene. For us as a family it has meant that I have been able to take stock of the situation myself, I have been able to take my precautions, but what is even more important to me is that my children, because of the possibilities of genetic investigation, have had the opportunity to do so at a very early stage in their lives. I sometimes have questions about, for example: insurance companies and employers, and whether I have felt pressured to provide information, and the answer is no. After all, it is in the legislation that genetic data can only be used for purposes in health care, for research and for statistics. There are many myths associated with a national genome center and what size it is, and I sometimes wonder why some seem to have an interest in spreading fake news. In recent months I have received a very large number of e-mails with claims that are far from reality. Let me give you an example where it is written that this is a matter - and I quote: a bill which means that the state will map my personal data and other Danes' personal data and save them forever without our consent. Quote out. A quote which, moreover, recalls the essence of the consultation answer submitted by the Danish Society for General Medicine, which argues in the direction that with the bill the state will map out all Danes' personal genome, and writes, I quote: The bill allows Danes' DNA sequences to be collected in a central database without prior involvement of patients. I cannot make it clear enough: health care requires consent. And precisely the possibilities for consent have been crucial for us in the Left. As a patient, we must be able to say no to a genetic analysis, and we must be able to say yes to a genetic analysis and at the same time ensure that data is only used for their own treatment and, of course, we must also be able to say yes to a genetic analysis and that data can be used for both their own treatment and for research into pseudonymised form. For it is absolutely essential that we become more skilled in preventing and targeting the diseases of the future, it is an essential and crucial factor that Danish patients can contribute with data that we can all learn from. That's a community. And if you contribute, it'll benefit everyone. I have noted with great satisfaction that both the Medical Association and Danske Patients are positive, and I would like to thank you here for the fine cooperation that has been in connection with the many reflections and discussions we have had politically during the process of completing the bill. Let me conclude by saying that high data security for us in the Left is a crucial prerequisite for the creation of the genome centre. We are already collecting data today, but at regional level. The consequence is a certain heterogeneity with regard to the level of safety. With the new centre, all data will be pseudonymised and security will be increased and uniform. We must and must take care of the Danes' health data. With the strategy for personal medicine and with a priority of 100 million. kr. in the 2017 Finance Act, the National Genom Center has the best opportunities to get off to a good start and contribute to better treatment, prevention and diagnosis of both today's and future patients. The Left can support the bill, and I welcome the Conservative rapporteur, who unfortunately has become ill, and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105013	Thank you. And the next is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105021	Thank you. When you get sick, in some cases it may be important to be able to map either parts or all of the genome you have, i.e. either some genes or the whole genome. It may be to be able to make the right diagnosis or to find the right treatment, and research into our genetics can also be very important in order to gain new and valuable knowledge. This can already be done in the health services today, and of course we are already doing so today. What this bill is about is establishing a new infrastructure around those processes. The Minister proposes a national genome centre where data from the people who have their genome mapped are to be included either in the context of treatment or in the context of research. It should also be possible to collate genome information with health data from many other registers, patient records or any other relevant person-sensitive information. There is no doubt that DNA and the individual genome are extremely sensitive information. It can contain knowledge of the risk of future serious diseases. It can contain knowledge of who you are related to, if you are now, for example. Don't know in advance. That is why I understand that this bill has been met with a certain amount of scepticism and also a certain amount of criticism. Is there now sufficient security regarding the storage of this sensitive information? Does the individual now have control of his own data? My data may be used for quite different purposes than my own processing, for example. by private companies or insurance companies, which some have also asked about? That is my position, and it is the position of Enhedslisten, that sensitive information, for example. The information we are talking about here also belongs, from the outset, to the individual citizen himself. And it is a matter of privacy to be able to control who accesss deeply sensitive information. Therefore, it is also very important that it is the individual himself who must give explicit consent in order to be able to have a mapping of the genome. And that also applies to the bill that is here, but there is a place where it lags. The fact is that, although consent must be given to the mapping of the genome in the context of treatment, it is implicit in the fact that consent is also given to the subsequent research. Then you put in a model, and then you can cancel it afterwards. But I think we have a problem of principle when we do not ask people whether they want their data to be included. Therefore, in this process, it has always been a proposal on our part that both consent should be given to the mapping of the genome in the context of treatment and that explicit consent should also be given to research. Of course, we shall be tabling an amendment on this in the course of this debate. It is not just about the individual's ability to control what happens to the data that are sensitive to people. It is also about the fact that, in my opinion, this is the very best way to maintain confidence in the processing of sensitive personal data in respect of the individual. And happily, as several have said, it is the case in Denmark that the vast majority of Danes very, very much want to participate in research and contribute their data. That is why I think it is quite obvious that we are also asking for consent to it. Another theme that we have highlighted in the discussions we have had is the scientific element. There is no doubt that research into genomes can contribute important knowledge, but it can also open up a lot of ethical questions: what is it reasonable to research when it comes to our genetics? And that is why I think it is a great shortcoming that there is no requirement that when you want to do a research project, there will be a scientific assessment, as we know from other areas of health. Moreover, it is also a criticism that both the Ethnic Council and the National Scientific Committee highlight in their response to the consultation, and we shall also be tabling amendments to that effect. So, basically, to sum up, I think it is sensible to provide a better infrastructure for gene sequencing than the current one. I think it is important to say, as another colleague also said, that safety today is not very good, and it is probably also the case that capacity is not sufficient either. But I do not think that the citizen's self-determination is strong enough in the proposal we have here, and that is why we are going to table some amendments. In the present form, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105517	Then there is a comment from Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105521	Thank you. I very much agree with the rapporteur that our data is our own and that we must decide for ourselves what to do with them. However, I wonder whether the rapporteur has read the agreement well enough, because it is clear that this too can be done. In addition to giving informed consent to a gene sequencing at all, one will be asked, even in the same process, whether it may be used for purposes other than one's own treatment. A proposal has been made for a form where you have to fill it out at the same time and answer yes or no to whether your data can be used for anything other than your own processing and even without a CPR number. So what exactly does the rapporteur think is missing from the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105624	I am well aware of the agreement and I have also read it carefully, and we have chosen not to sign up to it. And it's about how I don't think it's strong enough. I think that there should be explicit consent to research, and that is not the case with the current agreement. It is true that there is an opportunity to do away with it afterwards, but it is implicit, i.e. to include your data. Today we are already familiar with the Vævsbrugsdirektoratet • another rapporteur also mentioned this. Unfortunately, not many people know about it. We can hope that will be better; that would be good. So it is about the principle: what is the approach to asking for people's consent? And if we are at the point where we really want full control, I could also ask the other way round: why is it that the parties behind the agreement do not want to ask for the explicit consent of the citizens that their data should be used for research? If the difference isn't that big, maybe we could meet. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a significant difference and that is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105728	Thank you. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105730	Thank you. How can it be more explicit than that it is written on the same form, where the title says "Informed consent" and where there are four questions and the fourth question specifically is whether information from the included genomic sequencing can be used for research without name and cpr, and that one should then tick? How can that be more explicit than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105802	Well, I have to say that I have not seen the specific form, so of course I would very much like to see it. I can only relate to what I have read in the agreement, and it only says that it should be made clear that there is an opportunity to do so and that it should be standardised how it is done. That's all that's in the deal. So, of course, I'd love to see the form, and then let's talk about it. For me, it is absolutely crucial that there is consent to research and that, as a citizen, you have control over what happens to your data.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105832	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105838	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. This is precisely one of the points we have been discussing over and over again, both politically, in the rapporteur's circle, and with the external stakeholders who have had an opinion on this. Can the rapporteur not confirm that, for example, if I have had a gene sequencing and I have said that my data may be in the national genome centre, and then there are researchers who are researching some medicine and would like to make use of the information about me, then they will not have access to my personal data? You don't see that it's a Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who is behind this. The information is anonymized, it is encrypted, but researchers can make use of it in research contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222105924	So, I believe that what the rapporteur is asking is whether, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. a person's cpr number will appear or there will otherwise be a clear reference. And there will, as I understand it, not. But it is clear that when we talk about a genome, it is directly personal, because there is only one person who has that genome. And the same applies especially if you connect it with the many other information you want to enrich this register with. Then it will be possible to identify the individual. But that is, in fact, a condition for research in this area, and that is why it is so important to me that we ask for the express consent of the citizens to be included in this. And then you have to take up your position whether it is a risk that will in principle be there which you will be included in with the benefits that can then be, i.e. that you contribute to research, which can make us, for example. acquires knowledge of new treatments and new forms of diagnostics. That is why I am saying that it is not just a question of control for the individual citizen. It does, but this is also about explicit consents for me to see is the best way to maintain confidence that our systems in this area are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110040	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110041	Yes, but here it is that in the very broad majority of this Parliament we have given each other the guarantee that we put the maximum security down over the data that is placed in there so that they cannot be attributed to me, so that they cannot be shared with anyone for whom this is irrelevant. And here I just think that the rapporteur is helping to hold onto a mistrust of whether safety is in order. Because we have just said that consent must be given here, that there must be a personal orientation, that there must be an opportunity here to know that there is something called tissue usage register and that you can choose that you can have a gene sequencing so that you can enter into and be part of the new treatment options that exist, but that your data can only be used for the person himself. So I'm just a little bit unsure why it's that Enhedslisten will hang his coat up to uncertainty, because here it's not possible to identify the data down to the fact that it's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen's data is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110149	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110150	There will always be a risk when we have large databases, and I have actually heard a broad recognition of this when we have had these discussions. That's a risk. Unfortunately, we know that there are sometimes hacker attacks. We were just discussing a bill on it. It's a risk. This does not mean that we should not do anything at all, but it does mean, of course, that we must do everything we can to ensure that safety is optimal. But the risk exists, and that is why I think it is important that, in the end, this decision as to where one's data is is clearly anchored by the individual citizen. We would like to see people, for example. could also have a right to have its data deleted. You can't do that when it comes to this area. But at least at least we will demand that there is clear consent to research.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110240	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110242	Thank you. I would also like to ask a few questions about this consent and the concern raised here by Enhedslisten. For what is in the bill here and the form we have all been sent around clearly shows that as an individual you have the opportunity to say yes to your gene sequence as part of your treatment, and no thanks to research or yes to its inclusion as part of your treatment, and yes to research. So, as an individual, you have a wide range of options to say yes or no, thank you. You can even withdraw your consent. Will the rapporteur not say where it is that it will be difficult for the rapporteur? What is the small section that the rapporteur lacks on the piece of paper which we have all been sent around and which will be the sheet which will be the basis for the consent that the patient must give?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110351	If the process has changed in such a way that you actually give your consent to research, then I think it is something other than what you have talked about in the past, where it is about a genuinely depravity model. That is something else, which is where we believe, as a starting point, that the citizens are involved in research. Because what we want is for explicit consent to be given to the research part. So I'd love to look at that form and see if we've actually ended up in the same place. It's just not my impression that it's the same place we are. So to give a clear answer to the rapporteur's question: what we want is that there is explicit consent to research.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110430	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110435	Thank you. Today we are fortunate enough to be able to develop targeted personal medicine for certain diseases. This means that you can cure more diseases and with fewer side effects. If you have a disease in which the treatment with personal medicine is possible and you are offered this treatment, it is a prerequisite for the treatment that your DNA is identified. This can only be done by informed consent. And it has been agreed with the support of almost all of the Danish Parliament's parties. If you do not actively agree, your DNA will not be mapped and you will be offered the treatment that is possible without DNA sequencing. If you actively agree to DNA sequencing and treatment with personal medicine, then your data will be stored. They always do. So do they today. This is happening, among other things. for possible future treatment and for patient rights in connection with possible maltreatment, etc. But in future, this data will be stored in a national genome centre, which should be safer than many local centres. But everyone can at any time say no to the fact that your data is used for research or in a context other than your own treatment. This requires registration in something called the Tissue Use Register. It's not very bureaucratic. It's pretty easy. It is a page on which, on the one hand, it says what it means and, on the other hand, you write your cpr number, name and address and you tick it. And by the way, you sign it. It is to ensure that no data can be used against your will, and if you have at some point had no objection to your data being used but later regretted, you can always say no. At any time, you can say no to your data being used for purposes other than your own. Data collected in the past can only be transferred to the National Genome Centre if you actively say yes. It has been very important for the Liberal Alliance that it is made easy and transparent for everyone what one's rights are. Consent must therefore be given in writing and a simple and easy-to-understand form is drawn up. It's the same form, no matter where you go in the country. It is also in one and the same process and on the same form that one can consent to genomic sequencing and say yes or no that one's data can be used for research. And if you say yes, it's for your data to be used without a CPR number. It's pretty clear, too. It is a page on which there are four questions, and the last question is whether information from the extensive genomic sequencing can be used for research without name and cpr number, set a cross. And if you say yes, not all kinds of people have access. Information in the National Genomcenter shall be stored but shall only be processed for the purposes of prevention and disease control, medical diagnosis, nursing or patient treatment or the management of medical and health services and scientific statistical purposes. This means, for example, that: insurance companies, police and employers cannot access the information stored by the National Genomic Centre. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal. Did the Left say that Conservatives also support? Yeah, good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110849	Then it's mr. Anders Stjernholm, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222110858	The alternative is also immediately positive about the proposal, because it will help to improve the diagnosis and treatment of Danish patients. We agree with the Ministry's considerations on the importance of collecting all information relating to personal medicine in one place. This will improve data security and developments in this area, and thus also improve the benefit of patients. That is why we are pleased that a centre is now being set up to implement the national strategy for personal medicine, and in general we can see the idea in a national genome centre, as the alternative represents a class of voters with an abundance of genetic detours. We are also pleased with the extra tight legislation which ensures that information in the genome centre can only be used for health care purposes, research and statistics, and not by insurance companies and employers, just as other rapporteurs have said. It is also positive that the proposed section 29, which extends the patient's self-determination over biological material given in connection with treatment, may also apply to genetic information. However, we are not sure whether there are issues that are problematic, which should be taken into account in the legislative proposal, and we would therefore like to wait until we have more information with our final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111017	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111026	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we have not mapped out the genetic mass of our constituents, and I would actually think it was seriously frightening if we got there. I don't suppose that's what Mr. Anders Stjernholm refers to. But let me make it clear that we warmly support this bill to set up a national genome centre, and we are actually very pleased that it looks as though it is a united Parliament that is united on it. This is, of course, important not least in relation to some of the myths that several rapporteurs have also brought up, and the uncertainties resulting from what has flourished in the public debate. It is quite fair and understandable that people may well become insecure, but I also think it is worth stating that the creation of such a national genome centre, which has been going on for a long time, is so good, because it will have such an impact on people who suffer from a serious illness, and this is a very good extension of the fantastic research tradition and treatment tradition that we have in Denmark in the field of health. Several people have mentioned it, but it is the case today that when a person gets sick from cancer or arthritis or sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, I think we all know some people we will in most cases get some sort of standard medicine, which you know will help some, but which you also know will not help everyone. If you are one of those on whom the medicine does not work, the doctor will try another form of standard medicine. There are a lot of people who experience treatment with different types of medication until, hopefully, you find the kind that then works, or you find something that works, but also have a long, wide range of side effects • if for it is actually the case that it is only about half of all patients with rheumatoid arthritis, a quarter of all patients with cancer who are targeted to benefit from the medication they receive. So imagine, if instead of a standard we could get a targeted personal medicine, one that matched just my unique genes. It's possible. This is already happening, but not to a large extent enough, and the efforts are local and they are less coordinated. So if doctors and researchers in the future are to be able to find the medicine that will take care of me and my possible illness, it will of course require even more research, and it will certainly improve it, making it much more possible to have large amounts of data to research into. When the data volume increases, we will also get more accurate results, and then we will be able to help far more patients. So that seems to us to be the main reasons for setting up a national genome centre, so that we can collect data somewhere and make it easier to develop targeted personal medicine and help, and so that we also do not need to be filled with medicines that we cannot use. Then there are the myths and the legitimate uncertainty about how the state will take care of our DNA information. A lot has already been said about this and has been exchanged, so let me just stress again, just as other rapporteurs have done, that it is ensured that patients must always consent to receive treatment and that we cannot store personal data without consent. You can always say no, and in the field of research, data are always anonymised. This is how we have developed amazing treatments in Denmark over time. As a former research minister, I would just like to say that one of the most amazing experiences from Denmark is that one has had access to research into the data we have in anonymised form. Then I should like to welcome the rapporteur and thank the Minister for Health in particular, but also the other rapporteurs for an exemplary course in many ways, which has taken a long time, but which has also been carried by the will to find each other widely and of high understanding and professionalism. The rapporteur welcomes and thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111528	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111533	Thank you. Resequencing is epoch-making for the treatment of sick citizens, and we have probably only seen the peak of the mountain of opportunities that comes with even very great new knowledge of how the body responds to medicine and/or to treatment. We have already seen promising results from, for example, the treatment of the ugly cancer, but also in relation to potentially fatal cardiovascular diseases, there are promising opportunities. Personally, I am also really uplifted by the fact that in the psychiatric field there are research projects which indicate that we can learn more about how to target treatment so that we avoid using much of the often harmful psychopharmaceuticals. It is precisely in the psychiatric field that there can be a long way between the good research results. That is why I would actually like to dedicate this bill to the many families affected by serious illness. For who does not really dream that in the field of research we will be even better at dealing with serious illness? With the draft law, we are now ensuring the possibility that we can become even more aware of the right treatment with the least possible side effects. With the creation of the genome centre, we are bringing together the efforts already being made in the individual regions. We do so because we believe that it can give us greater muscle and because gene sequencing equipment is expensive, but also to a large extent to increase safety. Bringing together efforts will reduce costs and make it possible to bring as much money as possible to the direct health that will benefit more people. In SF we therefore see the creation of a national genome centre as an important step for future treatments in the health system. Have we closed our eyes and ears to the critical voices? Not at all. On the contrary, critics, who have both expressed themselves publicly but also bothered to send us e-mails, have not only made an impression; the many inquiries have also sharpened our attention to what should be included in the final draft law. I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to thank the Minister for showing both patience and thoroughness in order to meet as far as possible the need to strengthen security and security. In the SF, we are also very concerned about protecting the safety of citizens, so that sensitive information does not end up in the hands of the wrong people, just as every citizen must have the assurance that personal data can only be used for what we each accept it can be used for, including research. We have done this by clarifying patients' rights and specifying that data are not used for other purposes, for example. as a DNA record for police or insurance companies, etc. This is also something that we in the SF have been very aware of, and we believe that separate and serious considerations of security have been taken seriously and that citizens' concerns have been taken seriously. However, despite the measures that have been taken, it is important to emphasise that we must continue to pay close attention to the security of the National Genome Centre. Since this is a major legislative proposal that we have been working on for a long time, I also believe that we should use the further examination of the proposal to resolve the ambiguities highlighted in some of the consultation responses in relation to future decisions on the use of data, etc. So, like Mrs Liselott Blixt, I would like to put a few questions so that we can clarify what we are actually facing. I should like to thank you for your cooperation, and also my colleagues in the rapporteur's group and the Minister for fine cooperation. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111941	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222111943	Thank you for the debate, thank you for the comments, thank you for the support and for the cooperation we have had. As many of you quite rightly say, this draft law in connection with the government's legislative programme was set to be put forward in November, but when it has not been, it is because we have taken the concerns that have been raised very seriously, and also the many inputs that have come from the health rapporteurs in this Chamber, and have had a thorough dialogue with all the actors in this area, both those who have had critical voices and those who have warmly backed up, both on the patient side and on the part of the health professionals. I think that this is a good way of working because it also allows us to have a fair and nuanced debate and to get down to what is fake news and myths, and what is really the facts, and on that basis ensure that we have as good a bill as possible that can lay the foundations for future health care treatment with a strong starting point to strengthen personal medicine in the future. This is what the Danes deserve, both because it is about something as important as how we can offer patients better and more accurate treatment in the future, but also because it is about how we store their data, how we handle in a transparent and secure way the sensitive data in the healthcare system. That is why not only the process that has taken place, but also the discussion has been very much about ensuring secure solutions and secure solutions both in terms of IT security and in terms of the right of self-determination. That is also why it is now clear from the draft law, which perhaps did not appear so explicitly in the past, that there must be consent in relation to the treatment, as opposed to elsewhere in the health service, where consent does not require it to be written, while it is clear that this is the case here. As some colleagues have also pointed out, there have also been examples of how such a consent form might look and what it is important to respond to. It is because we are saying by law that an explicit written consent must be given to the gene sequencing, and we must be aware that it will be stored in the National Genom Center, and we must also be able to decide whether we want data to be used only for our own use or whether it can also be used for research and thus also ensure even better treatment in our health services in the future, because our treatment is on the shoulders of the previous treatment. And we know that research helps to ensure that the next patients will, hopefully, also benefit from the results and experience gained in the treatment. We must become better and better at providing patients with a treatment that is more appropriate to the patient and the patient's disease. Health care has always sought this, but what is very new is that technology offers new opportunities to hit even more precisely, for example. through the use of genetic information. This is something that is already happening in our healthcare system. Last year some 20,000 different DNA-based analyses were carried out, and therefore it is also important that we now ensure a secure structure around it because it is happening today and it is going to take place even more widely in the future. That is, for example, the case. The cancer patient, where we have to try our way forward today to see what works. Perhaps the patient should go through one, two, three different grueling treatments, some of them with more side effects than beneficial effects before finding out what it is that works. There, with personal medicine with an analysis of the genomes, we can help to ensure that you choose exactly and that you choose correctly the first time, so that you get the treatment that benefits the individual most and that has the least side effects. In the future, medicines will not only be authorised for a certain type of disease, but also for a certain genetic way, wherever it is in the body, and we can already see that where the first preparation on the European market has been authorised on the basis of genes and not on the basis of disease. It is, after all, amazing that we are no longer talking about whether it is intestinal cancer, whether it is lung cancer, that is to say what type of cancer it is, but that we are talking more about what kind of genetics it is, what treatment it has in connection with the use of the new technology, it is that ensures its survival and that causes the least possible side effects. It may also be that a genetic test shows that a person carries a pathogenic gene defect which can lead to life-threatening heart disease, and on this basis both the person and relevant family members may be offered preventive treatment against sudden heart death. This is also true in the field of psychiatry, where we can also see that there are fantastic perspectives in the use of personal medicine. This may also be the situation where it is known that genetics has an impact on the amount of medication to be given to the individual patient and where health care should not be anything with one size fits all, but where we also need to use DNA analysis to find out how we can ensure a more accurate dosage too. In 29 out of 38 medical specialties, it is stated that genetic information is used in diagnostics and in the treatment of patients today. In 30 of the specialties it is stated that genetic information is used in research. So we need to find a way where we also have even more focus on how we do it safely. Because, as some of the rapporteurs have also said, the solutions we have decentralized in health care today are not necessarily all expressions of the most optimal and the most secure organisation. It is important that when you know that you are going to use very large amounts of sensitive information in health care to provide the patient with the right treatment, both here and now, but also in the longer term, you will also need to ensure a proper infrastructure around it and proper protection. This applies both when it comes to storing the information, when it comes to analysing the information, and when it comes to how to see the information in conjunction with other relevant health information. You can't do that by looking at a file or by figuring something out on a piece of paper. This requires equipment that can form the genetic information, a data infrastructure and super computers that can handle these very large amounts of data. And if we are to do this in public in Denmark too, we must create a secure infrastructure around it. But we must also dare to invest in it and say that this is part of the future treatment system in Denmark. The national infrastructure for personal medicine must also help to ensure that Danish patients receive the same treatment options, whether they live in Holstebro or in Helsingør or in Greater Copenhagen. It is an important part of what is about explicit consent and written consent, but also in relation to what offers you meet in the Danish healthcare system. Internationally, we can see that developments are in full swing in this area. The countries around us are also in progress. We have to do it our way. We must both be inspired, but we must also adapt the solutions to Denmark. And it is important that we in Denmark ensure a balanced approach • our Danish approach can be said to be • as we are also characterised by in the health data field. This applies both when we look at infrastructure, when we look at high common quality, when we look at citizen involvement, and when we look at ethics. And that is also the basis for the bill, with the strategy that was created and launched back in December 2016 with Danske Regionser. It is a strategy that is based on the great involvement of patients as well as health professional organisations. And so there is a strong basis, which also takes into account in the governance structure all the ethical dilemmas which some of the rapporteurs also mention and which we cannot predict the scope of either. Because there may be secondary finds that suddenly give us a knowledge that we don't really want to know is there. And therefore ethical dilemmas will arise, which must be dealt with in the ethics committee, which will also be set up as part of the structure of the strategy for personal medicine in Denmark. Basically, I think the Danes deserve a health service where we can offer the personal medicine, as it makes sense in public terms, well to notice that we do not have a situation where patients or samples or data have to be sent abroad, in order to get the right diagnostics or treatment, or where, worst of all, it will be a situation where only those who really can afford to pay themselves, then have the opportunity to receive the treatment, because we have said no thanks to it in public terms in Denmark. And this bill must help to ensure that we have a secure basis for offering it in the Danish public health service in a safe and balanced way. As a minister for both the sick and the healthy, if one has to put it that way, both for those who are safe in the challenges and opportunities of the future and for those who are more concerned, it is important for me to stress that the creation of the national genome centre is part of the solution to the challenges facing health care. Personal medicine itself is not something new, but the whole new thing is the technology and speed at which things happen, and the fact that we can use genetic information much more to ensure good treatment and targeted and precise diagnostics of the individual. This requires investment in terms of analysing the very large amounts of information, and it also requires that we do not simplify this debate. This isn't uncomplicated. This is not a matter that we have taken lightly, and the concerns that have come along have been taken very seriously, because it is important also to ensure that we do our best and our best to ensure a proper Danish structure in the field of personal medicine. It raises many important questions about diagnostics, treatment, research, infrastructure, ethics and security, how we ensure that the balances are right and how things go hand in hand. And that is also the reason for the bill, namely the creation of a new institution and the creation of a secure infrastructure across the country, based on the national strategy for personal medicine from December 2016. I would like to thank the good colleagues here in the Danish Parliament for having reached a political agreement in this area, which also outlines, in the area of principle, how we ensure this balance between security and security, between future opportunities and ethical considerations, and how, in this way, in our joint ambition to create the national genome centre, we do so for the benefit and joy of the Danes and the patients who need us to constantly develop the treatment in Denmark. There have been, as many of you have also said, a number of myths in the debate. I will not repeat what several of you have said in relation to limiting what the information may be used for. I just think it is important that the debate that we are taking is also based on an enlightened basis. Because it is clear, and it is clear from the draft law, that no, insurance companies cannot be admitted; no, the National Police cannot be allowed to use it here in an investigative context; no, employers cannot have access to it here in order to assess whether anyone is suitable for early retirement or otherwise. I believe that we all receive several requests, including some of us on a daily basis, where this keeps going again and where we can also see that there are actors who keep saying it, even though it is factually wrong. There I hope that with the committee procedure we will be able to clarify the issues and also ensure the security of the citizens and of the parliamentary parties in terms of supporting them. So thank you for the treatment so far. I am, of course, making myself fully available in committee for further questions and things that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113204	No one has been challenged by the Minister, so we thank you very much for your efforts. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113232	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113255	Our welfare society is based on a number of fundamental principles. We all know that we are a huge cost to the community when we are children and young people. Later we grow up and get a job and become a very large income, and finally we retire and draw quite a lot on health care, and then we are again an expense. But that is not how we see people in Denmark: revenue and expenditure. We all consider ourselves to be citizens, and we can allow this, because the social contract is based on the basic economic premise, that the calculation goes up in the end, and the basic political premise that we feel cohesion with each other and therefore do not keep bookkeeping accounts with who needs a helping hand from the municipality along the way or a new expensive hip operation. These are the basic prerequisites for the welfare state's distribution policy, which is challenged by the very weak link with the labour market among immigrants and in cultural circles, which is far from our own, just as it is challenged if the new arrivals are not also culturally and socially part of our society. It is therefore quite natural that both the population and politicians should discuss how we maintain the solidarity of a tax-financed welfare state at a time when between 50,000 and 100,000 people from abroad live in Denmark every year. Today's bill is part of that discussion and we welcome it and consider it necessary. Today we have to take a position on three specific changes to the legislation. Firstly, the rules on deferred pensions need to be changed so that there will be more opportunities for the payment of the supplementary allowance if you choose to retire later. We think that makes sense and we can support that. Secondly, the calculation of the entitlement to a full pension must be changed. Today, citizens must have lived in Denmark for at least 40 years, and if you have not lived in the country for all these years, the pension is calculated on the basis of how long you have been living in Denmark. If you've been here 80%. of the period between the 15th year and the retirement age, a full pension is granted, otherwise less. The bill changes it to 90 per cent. of the period from the 15th year to the retirement age. This increases the period of earning as the retirement age also rises. It also seems sensible and financially responsible, and we can therefore support that too. Finally, the special rule that refugees are exempt from the income rules is removed. Today, refugees can include their residence in their country of origin, and thus they are not covered by the rules on 3 years' stay in Denmark. Similarly, refugees today are also not subject to the same income rules as other foreigners and Danes. With this bill, refugees are formally equated with everyone else. The basic idea that refugees' access to economic benefits from the welfare state should also be subject to income principles is our fundamental support. This is also evident from our political initiative in the field of foreigners, which was published a few weeks ago, and we can therefore support that. However, we see a major problem in the draft law, namely that those who seek early retirement but who do not want to earn the right to full early retirement and therefore have to be supplemented up from the social policy area will be supplemented up to the low level of integration benefit. This is a problem for the families of children. There are simply too many children who suffer too severe deprivation at the present rates. There is too little economy for winter clothes, participation in birthdays, cultural experiences and everything else that should be part of a child's life in Denmark. We have therefore suggested in the past that we compensate these families of children for the benefits of integration, and the government has rejected that. But without this kind of compensation, the bill will only mean that even more children will now have to live with these unreasonable deprivations. That is why we cannot support the legislative proposal in its entirety, although we actually agree with the vast majority of it. We shall therefore be voting in favour of and against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113649	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113654	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What is the objective reason for supporting the principles of tightening the requirement to earn more, as set out in this proposal? The only thing that comes out of it, as far as I can see, is a great many more poor pensioners and early retirement pensioners. What is the objective reason for supporting it? The second is: what has happened to the social democracy in relation to refugees' chances of obtaining full early retirement and old-age pensions? I think we have actually agreed on this in the past. So what has happened now that the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113745	First of all, why it is reasonable to tighten up the income requirement: we think it makes sense, as the retirement age rises, that we also look at this issue, and it is also a matter of financial responsibility in the end. Secondly, on the principles of income for refugees: we think it makes sense that refugees who come here, like other foreigners, have some level of income in order to be able to receive social benefits, that is, not access to health care or the education system, but transfers in general. After all, we have always had income principles in relation to early retirement and pensions for other foreigners, and we can actually support it in relation to the children's cheque. And now there is also a discussion on the subject of unemployment benefits. Basically, in order to maintain support for the solidarity financing of the welfare state, we need to ensure that there is no full access to transfer income from day one when you arrive here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113849	So I understand that, in order to maintain support for the welfare state, we have to implement legislation in this Parliament which, with a state guarantee, leads to one thing, and that is that we have a growing group of poor people, that we have a growing group of folk and early retirement workers who live too much lower benefits than others in similar situations? Is that the logic of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113922	It is, on the one hand, about maintaining the support that I think everyone who has a little love for the welfare state should take an interest in, but it is also about what is considered reasonable. I think it is fair that people who have come here late have some profit principles in order to have access to full transfer income or social benefits. I think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113949	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222113956	Thank you. Dansk Folkeparti entered into an agreement with the government on 20 June 2017 on several years in the labour market. This bill translates parts of that agreement. The draft law contains three points which are relevant to the acquisition of a full retirement pension, full supplementary pension and full early retirement pension. In order to obtain the full retirement pension, it will be necessary to have lived here in the kingdom nine tenths of your life after the age of 15 and until the age of retirement. It will also have the effect that if you have worked abroad and come home but do not earn nine tenths, you can continue to earn a pension if you stay longer on the labour market and thus have a pension. The same applies to the supplementary pension allowance, also referred to as the elderly cheque. To qualify for the full old check, you must have spent nine tenths of your life in the kingdom after reaching the age of 15. The same rules will apply to full early retirement. You have to earn a retirement pension and an old-age check and not just take it for granted that you come to Denmark, then you just get from the Danish Treasury. The rules will enter into force on 1 July 2018 and apply to everyone who reaches the retirement age on 1 July 2025 or later. It is also agreed that the rules on residence when granting early retirement to refugees are harmonised with those on residence for Danes and other foreigners coming to Denmark. In future, refugees will have to live in Denmark for 3 years from the age of 15 to the age of retirement in order to open up the right to early retirement. This also means that the recovery of early retirement takes place on the basis of the time they have lived in Denmark. Nowadays, refugees are strangely credited with years of residence from their country of origin, and this is being removed. Excepted are refugees covered by Regulation 883, which can still be included in the period of residence and employment in another EU/EEA country. The final point is that the rules for the payment of supplements for deferred pensions are made more flexible by the Law of 8 June 2017. This means that it will be possible for the citizen to choose between three schemes for the payment of allowances for deferred pensions. Here the rules are made more clear and flexible for calculating the waiting rate and calculation models, so that there should be a clearer overview for the citizen when choosing between the three pension schemes. You may receive a pension as a life-long supplement as it is today, but there are also opportunities to receive a higher supplement in the basic amount or a scheme to receive a lump sum for the basic amount set up and a higher supplement for 10 years to the part of the pension which constitutes the pension supplement. As I said, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114235	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114237	Thank you. The Danish People's Party markets itself as the Danes' party. Why, then, is it that we support a bill that will eventually mean that thousands of foreign dancers will be affected by it here and in a situation where they will receive significantly lower folk and early retirement than other Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114309	We think it is quite reasonable as a basic principle that if you are to have benefits in Denmark, you have also been in Denmark for most of your life. That's kind of what this is about being able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114323	So we have to note that the Danish People's Party, we must say very eager attempts to address ourselves not only as the Danes, but as pensioners' party, is hollow talk when it comes to the matter. For the rapporteur will not deny that this means that we have thousands of people who cannot work or who do not have to work because they have retired and who live under much, much lower benefits than other citizens in this country in the same situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114359	If so, these are people who have chosen to live and live in countries other than Denmark, and thus they have chosen to earn their pension in a different way. They have probably also had the opportunity to earn a pension in the countries in which they are staying. So I think it is reasonable to have lived and contributed in Denmark in the majority of life in order to be able to receive full benefits here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114422	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114429	Thank you. The bill, which we are discussing today, translates three elements of the agreement in several years on the labour market, which the government and the Danish People's Party entered into in June 2017. The details have been explained in an excellent way, so I shall jump directly to elaborate on the position of the Left on the proposal. The starting point of the agreement in several years' time on the labour market is that we live longer than ever before, we are healthier, healthier and more vibrant than ever before, and we stay longer in the labour market. This is a really positive development, but it also means that we need to adapt our welfare system accordingly if we also want to have a high level of welfare in the future. In the Left, for example, we want to do something about it. to support the positive development of the number of older people who, across educational backgrounds, choose to stay longer in the labour market. I think we are doing this with this part of the proposal, which deals with the payment of the waiting allowance, i.e. the financial gain that you get to retire and take an extra wage on the labour market. From now on, for example, you can. I think that many seniors can see the trick of pulling the work clothes a little longer, and the Left can only back that up. That part of the proposal is about increasing the income requirement for the right to a full retirement pension and early retirement, and I think that is a natural and necessary adjustment, because we have agreed, with the 2006 welfare agreement and the 2011 retirement reform, to index the retirement age so that it follows life expectancy. In my view, it is quite reasonable that the requirement to receive a full pension follows the increase in the retirement age and the development of the Danes' lifetime. Then, of course, it is also about a different kind of reasonableness, namely the reasonableness in relation to how long you must have lived in Denmark in order to obtain the right to a full pension. I certainly do not think that it is an unreasonable requirement that one should have lived in Denmark for 9/10 of the profit period in order to have full access to the cash register. Then, of course, we must be careful that we do not close the door to Danes who travel out into the world to work. I have noted that there are some who are very concerned about this, and I think that this draft law has also made good reservations about that. Firstly, it will continue to be possible to work for a number of years abroad, and secondly, it is by no means all stays abroad which, as it were, are pulling down. If the stay e.g. is for training purposes, or if you are employed in a Danish company's branch or subsidiary, it will be equivalent to being resident in Denmark. So there will still be good opportunities to travel out into the world so I'm not so worried about that. Finally, it is part of the proposal to harmonise the rules on the right of refugees to early retirement so that they comply with the rules for Danes and other foreigners. I can be brief: we must of course reach out to the refugees who come to Denmark, but it must be fair that the rules are the same for everyone. And on that basis, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114753	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114756	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur why it is now all of a sudden fair to stay here for 90%. of the time, when we have previously counted on forty parts. Why is that fair? Why, then, has the Left not made proposals on this a long time ago, for example? When it came to adopting a proposal for a further increase in the retirement age, that is to say, an ongoing increase in the retirement age, which is now being used as an excuse or justification for supporting it here? Well, why is one more reasonable than the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114835	If we continued with the rules currently in force, there would be an unintended change in the possibilities of obtaining a retirement pension. Then the 40 years that the rules are today would be a smaller and smaller part of the number of years that I think, in principle, one should be in Denmark in order to have full entitlement to a national pension. So, yes, that's why we change the rules. Well, then, sir. Finn Sørensen is asking why we have not done anything before, because it is true that I am referring to the 2006 welfare agreement and a 2011 agreement. It's been a while since we're in 2018. Now we are here with the proposal, and we think it is reasonable that there should be a link between living longer and being longer in the labour market, and then the number of years you have to be here in Denmark in order to be entitled to a full retirement pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222114936	After all, we had a chance in 2015, when we once again confirmed and settled with the Social Democratic Party on the ongoing increase in the retirement age, we could have taken that into account. However, the rapporteur must not just be honest and admit that it is about the economy. It's about getting more expensive if you continue with the current fraction... it's as simple as that, isn't it? So it is for reasons of austerity that some rules are being introduced which mean that we will have a growing group of people in this country on early retirement and some who really should have had a full old-age pension, which will have a significantly lower pension, that is to say more poor, sick and retired people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115022	I do not think the rapporteur can draw that conclusion immediately. In other words, there are also people who, in the future, will be covered by a partial pension because they have worked abroad for a number of years, and perhaps also have earned a pension in the country in which they have worked. Then they come home to Denmark, and then they don't get a full pension forward, they get a fraction pension, but they can supplement it with the pension they earned abroad when they worked there. I will not describe them as neither poor nor vulnerable. After all, it is people who have chosen to spend part of their lives in another country and have been subject to the country's rules. And when they come to Denmark, they are subject to the new rules we make here. And it is true that it reflects the fact that we need to take account of the fact that we all live longer and that, moreover, we are working for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115118	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Well, that's the ride to sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115132	Thank you. Then we will have to deal with another proposal from the government and its parliamentary basis, which aims to impoverish sections of the population. For more poor pensioners, early retirement pensioners as well as old-age pensioners, Danish as well as foreigners, the only thing that will come out of this is this. On the other hand, a little extra benefits will be given to a little more well-off pensioners. It appears from the comments on the draft law that about approx. 25 years will be approx. 100,000 people should not be entitled to full early retirement and old-age pensions, even if they should be entitled to them in terms of their health and age. This would be the consequence of increasing the residence requirement as proposed here. What, then, is the factual reason for this? I have not been able to find it, but it is, of course, because I do not recognise the previous rapporteur's view that there should be a perfectly clear logic in that we should have an ongoing increase in the retirement age, because that is the argument that is being used in that we have decided that we are so a majority in the Danish Parliament that the retirement age should be continually increased to the detriment of those people who entered the labour market early on and were given the hard jobs physically and mentally, and now also to the detriment of even more people who do not meet the residence requirement to receive full early retirement pensions. So it is, after all, the factual justification that is being put forward by a government that has it as one of its top priorities. Sometimes it cannot get through with all the ambitions, but the priority is clear: we must have reduced social welfare benefits, which we had in Denmark for years and have fought to improve, in favour of tax cuts to the top of society. At the same time, the opportunity is taken to step around in the eye of the refugees a second time, as was also done under Anders Fogh Rasmussen's government in the 00s. In the sacred name of harmonization, the residence of refugees in the country of origin will no longer be equated with residence in Denmark when calculating early retirement. It is completely ignored that refugees have not chosen their own situation. To survive, they have had to flee war and terror. In order to ensure the social security of refugees on an equal footing with the other inhabitants of Denmark, we have in the past agreed to adopt the rule that the period of residence of refugees abroad counts as residence in Denmark. The new rules will hit refugees who have lived less than 7 years in Denmark particularly hard. They are referred to to live for up to 7 years on integration benefits, which after all for the information of those who are listening is almost DKK 7,000. a month for a single person, i.e. for up to 7 years they must live for it or with a fraction pension supplemented up to the low level of integration benefit. Only then can their early retirement be supplemented up to the level of cash benefits on application. This proposal is estimated annually to affect 7,800 refugees in the years around 2048. It is actually amazing that such a proposal should be put forward when the comments themselves recognise that it can be at odds with the European Convention on Human Rights, which is a procedural risk, as they say. The draft law also contains some improvements for the folk pensioners who are so fortunate that they have the health, the desire and the energy to continue working after they reach their retirement age and have therefore postponed their pension. They can now choose to receive a higher waiting allowance for a ten-year pension instead of a life-long waiting allowance or to choose to receive part of the supplement as a lump sum. It is very good for these pensioners, whom we must assume are not in need, but it is quite unspeakable that some of the poorest and most vulnerable pensioners are going to pay for it. So Enhedslisten votes against the bill. Finally, the debate with the Social Democratic Party on support for the welfare state. I am ashamed that the Social Democratic Party is increasingly buying this model with profit principles. It will be contrary to the foundations and aims of the workers' movement, which has always been to ensure that we do not have poor people in this country. We should not have a large group of people who did not have the same social security as others, also because we know that it will destroy not only support for the welfare state, for what we need with a welfare state that cannot secure the most vulnerable citizens, but it will also threaten the cohesion of the whole labour movement. So I am deeply disappointed by the announcement by the Social Democratic Party today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115643	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No one let themselves be challenged. I can see from the clock that before lunch we can reach another rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115655	As previous rapporteurs have said, this draft law translates parts of the agreement for several years into the labour market and, as has been mentioned, the proposal strengthens the right to a full retirement pension, so that you have to have lived in the country for nine tenths of the time between the 15th and the retirement age. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that it must be natural that there is a close link between where you live and work and having the right to Danish benefits. If you spend a substantial part of your working life abroad, you should save your pension there. I think that a bottom line where you can use approx. 5 years abroad without losing the right to a full Danish folk pension is reasonable. In addition, the proposal will harmonise the rules on early retirement so that refugees do not have special access to early retirement. It is quite difficult for me to see why refugees should be better off than a foreigner in relation to Danish benefits. Last but not least, it opens up the way for you to receive your pension more quickly, and if it can make someone see the interesting thing about spending several years on the labour market, that is, of course, positive. It is good that we set up the rules in a way that makes it worthwhile to make an extra effort, both for the individual and for the state as well. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222115827	Thank you very much to Mrs Laura Lindahl. I think we are holding on to the fact that we are now going to lunch and interrupt the meeting and meet again at 8 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222125959	The sitting has resumed and we have reached Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130030	Thank you. As mentioned earlier, the proposal before us is part of the implementation of the pension agreement from the summer of 2017. The proposal has three main elements in particular: an increase in the requirement to earn money, a withdrawal and a reduction in the rights of refugees in the context of early retirement and, finally, more payment options for deferred pensions. The last thing we think is actually fine, i.e. the choice over more payout options, but we do not think that funding should come from the first two proposals. The increased demand for income has major consequences for foreigners who come to Denmark as young or older, for example. as refugees. The reduction in pensions and old people's cheques is quite significant for that group, and with this bill we risk building further on the establishment of an ethnic subclass in Denmark, which is weaker in the labour market and which is economically very poorly secured. We already have the integration benefit, which creates poverty and isolation for people who come here from a longer stay or origin abroad. The new requirement will thus also affect young people and adults who work abroad for a period of time, unless they study or work in a Danish company. The reduction in the pension for citizens who retire at the age of 65 will hit even after just 5 years abroad, compared with the 50 years they work today against 10 years. It will affect people working abroad in lower paid jobs or in low wage countries. Similarly, we must be very critical of the so-called harmonisation of the rules for refugees. It is basically a deterioration of rights that we, as a society, have given the refugees in the past, in recognition of the fact that people on the run who have experienced cruel things, persecution, torture, war, have the right to protection and are in a particularly vulnerable position. With the proposed and agreed arrangement, people who have been tortured, traumatized or become so disabled as to be unable to work in any way and are therefore entitled to early retirement are hit extremely hard economically and are put into a life in Denmark in poverty. Thus they must live at integration benefit level for up to 7 years in Denmark without the possibility of changing their lives. The integration allowance has been introduced on the pretext that it should give refugees a better incentive to work. This is a group of people that we do not recognise in any way whatsoever can work, and it is therefore detrimental to the individual and to society that we park them on a poverty-creating integration benefit for so many years. The alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130305	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130318	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we can see a number of sensible elements in this bill: a better link between pension benefits and the retirement age. But then there's this completely unreasonable element that refugees are treated in the same way as others in relation to early retirement. They have not lived in Denmark; they are refugees. This means in practice that a group, a large part of the refugees, will be completely excluded from receiving early retirement. Unlike other foreigners who come here to work and therefore most often have worked before and had arrangements before, and at least have had the opportunity to have full knowledge of the conditions before they chose to come here, refugees have not, of course, fled. If Denmark were then a country where you could just slam up your food stall along the road or set up a tent or set up a house in the nearest park, we could like start talking about that we were a society where you could get through under the same conditions as others. But we are not such a country, fortunately. After all, we have been working for 100 years and more so as not to be. In the Radical Left, we do not want to have poor refugees who cannot work and then have to roam around. We do not want to have more poor children in Denmark, because it is unreasonable to give those children so much worse opportunity than all other children they are here, but they have not chosen it themselves and because it is to the detriment of all of us. It does not provide a better, more coherent society with more confidence and more cohesion, that we marginalise and impoverish a particular group of people who have not themselves chosen to bomb their country, their families, their children, as we see it happening to us these days. So in the Radical Left we cannot vote for the bill as it stands now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130606	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130617	There is already a great difference between the possibilities of saving up for retirement. With the tighter income requirements that are being set up, we are making access to good senior years even more biased than it is today. It is not so crazy that Danes take a few years abroad to work without having to punish them hard afterwards. For good reasons, refugees who try to start afresh in Denmark have not had the opportunity to save or otherwise adjust to old age on a pension or any life on early retirement. This is gonna make Denmark even worse. SF is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130658	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have actually reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222130708	Thank you. I would like to start the debate here by thanking the various parties for their contributions and, therefore, also for the support that the proposal has enjoyed here today. The Government has a clear ambition to give more favourable conditions to those who wish to postpone their withdrawal from the labour market to remain part of the working community. In other words, we must say goodbye to the talk about the burden of the elderly and hello to a new talk about the strength of the elderly. It is also well known that life expectancy in Denmark is increasing. We should, of course, be delighted about this. This applies to unskilled, skilled and persons with higher education. Specifically, this means, for example, that life expectancy has increased from 78 years to 81 years since 2007. At the same time, there is a greater proportion of seniors who fortunately assess their health as well, and fortunately, employment among seniors is also increasing across training groups. Particularly among skilled and unskilled workers, there is a positive development in employment in recent years of working life. Since 2009, the employment rate of the target group has increased by approx. 28% for unskilled and with just under 19 per cent. for skilled workers. These are very good trends, because there is a need for the seniors' valuable labour force and experience in the labour market, not least a day like today, when we are quite close to putting Denmark record in how many are in employment. A good and long working life is a gain for the individual, for companies and therefore also for society as a whole. At the same time, we need to safeguard the welfare benefits that are earned as part of being a citizen of Denmark. It is only fair that people who have not stayed very many years in Denmark and thus have not contributed to the Danish welfare society should ensure a certain connection with Danish society before the benefits can be enjoyed in our country. I think that is common sense in many ways. It is, of course, through employment and tax payments that we have to finance welfare services such as: old-age pension and old-age pension. It is therefore natural to tighten up the requirements for earning the right to a pension. This was also the reason why the government and the Danish People's Party in June 2017 made an agreement in several years' time on the labour market, of which the bill translates a part. The draft law we are discussing now includes three main elements from the agreement in several years' time on the labour market: 1) We tighten the residence requirement for entitlement to a national pension, supplementary pension benefits and early retirement, so that we ensure a better link between the increasing old age of the population and the development of the life of the Danes. 2) We are abolishing the special position of refugees today when granting early retirement, where they can equate residence time from their country of origin with residence in Denmark. In doing so, we are harmonizing the rules on income for refugees, Danes and foreigners, as is already the case today in relation to the acquisition of a national pension. 3) We give seniors more flexibility by ensuring a faster and more effective payment of allowances when setting up your folk pension to stay longer in the labour market. At the same time, through the transitional rules, we ensure that citizens have a reasonable opportunity to adapt to the new rules. So in all areas, I think that this bill is actually in line with previous decisions taken here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131031	Then we can thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131051	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131115	With B 57 the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal requiring the government to submit before the end of this parliamentary year a bill banning praying rooms in all public educational institutions. The proposal is a partial re-submission of motion for a resolution B 54 which we discussed here in the Folketing a year ago. Let me start by stating that the government still cannot support the proposal. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that in some places there are major problems with Muslim groups gathering together for the purpose of exercising social and religious control over others. Let me make it quite clear that the government attaches great importance to the fact that Danish education is based on fundamental principles of freedom, equality and democracy. Public educational institutions have an important task in preparing students and students to live in a democracy of freedom and democracy. The role of educational institutions is to train students and students and create a Danish culture of education, where institutions are clear about Danish and Western values, among others. by upholding standards such as democracy, freedom of thought and freedom of religion. Freedom of religion does not mean that every citizen has the right, at all times and in all places and in all contexts, to actively and publicly practise his or her religion. However, the government does not believe that the challenge of religious control is best dealt with through a national ban on praying rooms. The decision of the institution and the actor must, of course, remain within the legal framework and the purpose of the training. In June 2017, the Minister for Education and Research and I sent a letter to the public educational institutions. In the letter we have pointed out that this is an important agenda, which we expect all educational institutions to take seriously and act on in the event of problems. It is crucial that pupils and students do not experience that they are being pressured into having a room made because others want to use the room for prayer and that the use of space at all does not contribute to attempts at negative social control, for example. by pressure from students and students to participate in prayer or other religious activity. I believe that educational institutions are primarily a place of learning, education, immersion, not religious practice and under no circumstances religious control. In the shepherd's letter, we therefore call on the institutions to consider whether the use of premises for religious practice is compatible with a culture of education based on freedom and popular rule and does not counteract the well-being of the entire group of pupils and students. In other words, I see no need to set up beach rooms in Danish secondary schools, vocational schools, VUCs or FGUs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131413	Thank you, Minister. There is one brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131417	I would like to sign for the shepherd's letter sent out by the Minister, which I think is appropriate. However, I think it is a pity that we do not want to go along with our motion for a resolution instead, because there is still room for prayer. Well, unfortunately, the shepherd's letter didn't get people around the educational institutions to shut down praying rooms. So I think it is a good thing that it has been sent out, but if there is no greater effect, then perhaps we should consider using a little stronger funds, and that is what we are proposing by tabling this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131501	My view is that all the rectors who have the highest responsibility for a place of education have a responsibility, of course, for what is going on in the teaching, but also for what the place of education is being used for. And what the place of education is being used for must be in the spirit of enlightenment and in the spirit of the Western tradition of education. That responsibility must be managed locally, but there must also be support, you might say, from a political point of view, and that is the support that I wanted to share in the shepherd's letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131540	But in cases where there are actually problems in schools that do not necessarily come to the principal's knowledge, you still want these bedrooms. That is why I think it is better to ban praying at all. By their very nature, the students who are subjected to this kind of social control go neither to the public nor to the principal and say so because it is a deep secret for them that they feel persecuted or controlled. So I do not think it is enough simply to say: Well, the principal has not discovered any problem, so there is no problem. It is not certain that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131624	My view is that those places where there are fortunately many places where this is not happening at all where there is religious control, it can be about much more than necessarily a prayer room. It can be about dress, social affairs and activities at all. So it is difficult, it can be said, just to ban oneself out of it. I believe that this is something that we must strengthen and combat by all the means that are now available in the education sector. And if students push others or show menacing behavior, they have no right whatsoever to go to the educational institution in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131715	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we are ready for the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Mattias Tesfaye, the Social Democrat, who is next and is now on his way to the platform, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131738	Young Danish Muslims practice their religion in many different ways, and they must be allowed to do so. Some pray five times a day, and others do not; some wear scarf, and others do not; some drink alcohol, and others do not. And this freedom to practise one's religion as one wants is at the heart of a democratic society. I also said this one year and one day ago when we last discussed a resolution similar to this one. And that is why we should also be aware that many young people experience the pressure of religious peers who tell them that they should and of course we do not want that at Danish educational institutions. Preaching strengthens this control in the schools. Schools should not be anti-religious, but they should be non-religious schools, and therefore we welcome the discussion. The Danish People's Party wants to ban pray rooms at public Danish educational institutions. When we dealt with the proposal in Parliament a year ago, the Social Democrats were open to the proposal. Our position was that premises in public educational institutions should not be used for preaching and prayer. That is still our starting point. However, we also had a number of concerns about the proposal put forward, which is why we chose to abstain from voting on the proposal. Instead, we asked the government to investigate how many prayer rooms there are in Danish schools and universities. We were given an answer a few months later, and we can now see that there is a very limited level of praying room or immersion room or stairway room, or whatever they are called. We therefore see no basis for proper legislative action. It seems that the managers of the educational institutions are able to deal with the problem themselves. However, we would like to emphasise that we do not believe that this is our position and, as Grundtvig said, the school should not be a church and the church should not be a school. Therefore, if management turns out not to be able to deal with the problem and praying rooms arise in schools to a greater extent, we will not deny that there may be a need for legislative action. With these comments, we maintain our yellow voice, that is, neither a yes nor a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222131957	Thank you. There is one question from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132001	Thank you to the rapporteur. I've been looking forward to this speech with great excitement. It is, of course, a pity that the Socialists do not want to do anything. For as long as there is just one person being bothered by this and such people I have personally met and feel that they are having difficulty in being in an educational establishment because they are being monitored and controlled, then I think we have a problem that we as legislators should do as we can to solve. As I said to the Minister of Education before, this is a very sensitive area. This is not just an area which you yourself can solve as the person who feels persecuted and controlled by raising a case at school. You just can't. Therefore, it is often that neither the school management nor other pupils at school know that this problem exists. That's something you're told in confidence. That is why I am a little disappointed that the Socialists do not want to go in and do anything to help these people who feel persecuted in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132126	Thank you for your comment. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that as long as there is just one person who feels under this pressure, we as politicians should intervene. I would also like to say that I also have to, even many of them, and I have also talked to school managers who consider this to be a problem. But I also think we have a responsibility as politicians not necessarily to resort to legislation if there is just one or a handful or 20 people who are under this pressure. We must also keep a cool head and agree with each other that, before we resort to legislation that regulates the whole of society, there must also be a problem of some extent. That is why I think it is reasonable, on the basis of a study which shows that there are very few places where it is used as a praying room, that we are just considering whether there is a need to regulate it here through legislation, or whether there is a need for a broad political majority at Christiansborg to actually support the letter sent by the ministers with the Minister of Education, saying that this is the political expression, and that we are counting on the school managers to be able, within the framework of dealing with existing legislation and governing their institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132247	Of course, I find it a little unfortunate that the Social Democrats are going to report very sternly that now they want to solve these integration problems, but not when it comes to the fact that there are actually people who would like to see Danish integration and prevent it, because, fortunately, we in educational institutions do not have so many, but some educational institutions provide a scenery that can be used for social control. Well, that's what we do when there's a prayer room. We are simply doing things in such a way that we can keep an eye on whether people are living up to the mandatory prayers to be made if we want to live an orthodox Islamic life. That means that others can keep an eye on whether you do it. Why should we provide such scenery if, at the same time, we believe that it is important to integrate into Danish society? I think it seems incoherent. If you really want integration and if you really want to help the individual who wants to be integrated into Denmark, you should abolish the kind of scenery that exactly promotes such control.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132401	Thank you. We have the feeling that public institutions are not just service bodies that have to provide services to citizens. It is also democratic institutions that should not just be apolitical. They must not be party political, but must be political: they must defend and develop democracy. That is why we also believe it is important that schools and educational institutions should learn not only English and physics and biology, but also that they should fight for democracy and to the extent that discussions arise about whether some of the pupils, for example, are involved. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It is important in Danish education if someone does not want to read short stories with sexual content, and it is important if it has an impact on what is being served in the canteen, and it is also important if anyone says that girls are not allowed to say anything in teaching, and it is also important if social control scenes start to emerge, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur says. What we are discussing here is not whether social democracy supports such scenery. What we are discussing is at what level it needs to be resolved, and our assessment is that the level that is resolving it now, namely the local school managers, is largely capable of dealing with it. That is why we see no basis for legislative action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132513	With that, we thank Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132521	Thank you for that, President. In the context of today's debate on B 57, I can start by saying that the Left is voting against this motion for a resolution. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party is proposing to ban educational institutions from setting up pray rooms. As has already been mentioned, it has been about a year since we last discussed a similar resolution, and the Left has not changed its position since last time. We continue to believe that it should be up to each institution to decide, but the Minister sent a shepherd's letter just over half a year ago to stress that, of course, the institutions have a role to play in combating possible social control. That is why I think we have actually come a very long way in this area. In the meantime, a study has also been carried out to simply find out how many prayer rooms it actually suggests are around the institutions and, as I have been informed, there were about 1,200 institutions which chose to respond to this study, and out of this there were approx. 15, where you had a permanent room at your disposal. Among the 15 institutions it was pointed out that those rooms were made available especially to Christian students. All in all, I do not think that there is any basis for starting to make legislation in this area. I am confident that the principals, the principals and so on. We have to take responsibility here and go in and fight it if there is social control in the institutions. With this I can inform you that the Left is voting against the resolution, and then I should also like to say that I should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives and say that they are also voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132733	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132735	This proposal is aimed at banning a room set aside for prayer. It is not a question of whether there may be prayer at the school, because it is up to the principal, the director or the head of the school to decide for himself, but it goes on to say that there should not be a room for prayer in any Danish public educational institution. Why should there even be such a room in a school? We know that the backdrop that you put forward when you make such a prayer room leads to social control. It can hardly do anything else because it is clear who goes out and in, and that is being watched for. So my question is: how can one justify the fact that there is a prayer room at any public educational institution in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132828	I would like to say again that we do not want to begin to go in and simply make detailed legislation in this area. I fully support also the shepherd's letter that was sent out, and I think that the way to try to influence these things is, as the Minister also chose to do, to emphasise what the rules are, to underline our positions, and then it is the individual heads of schools, the rectors, who must take this responsibility on themselves in order to change the places where there may be a prayer room.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132908	But why? Why is there a need for a prayer room at a Danish educational institution? This is not something you have had in the past, it is a completely new phenomenon. We know very well that it is being used for Islamic prayer and for control, mutual control among Muslims. So why even have it allowed? Would the rapporteur vote in favour of a law today which said that it is up to oneself to decide whether or not to organise prayer rooms in Danish educational institutions today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222132941	It is the case that whether it is about our educational institutions or in the workplace that is at least what I see in some places you set up a room for prayer or a room for prayer, as the DF's rapporteur also mentions. I still feel that if we are going to interfere in the details here at Christiansborg, my question could now be that I do not have the opportunity to ask questions here from the platform: how are we going to conduct the control afterwards? If the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party were to become law, then there would have to be something to do with it. Who is going to check, and should we then also have something done about, that there should be a corps going around and overseeing what is going on in the premises, etc.? I have to say that I am confident that the principals, the principals, will take on this responsibility, and that is actually where we stand in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133044	With that, we thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We shall now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133052	Thank you. In the view of the Enhedslisten, no legislation should be put in place to determine whether or not to organise a prayer room in public educational establishments. We do not believe that the Folketing should ban bedrooms, nor do we believe that, for that matter, there is no room for praying. the definition must be a requirement for the setting up of a prayer room, even if there are religious pupils who may wish such a behavior to be established. We note that today there are quite a small number of institutions where there is room for prayer. In general terms, it does not seem to me to rule out the possibility that there may be some examples of problems or conflicts where there is a prayer room. And to the extent that it is, it is obvious that it is handled by school managers. We also note that the educational institutions do not demand a ban such as that which the Danish People's Party wants to introduce. All in all, I would just like to say briefly that we have dealt with it recently that I do not see it as such that the aim is to solve real problems in our educational institutions, but that, frankly, it is part of what might remind us of a political campaign against citizens with a certain religious affiliation. We do not like that very much in the Enhedslisten. So briefly: we believe that it is safe to leave it to the school managers to decide whether there should be room for prayer in the individual educational institutions and we shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133227	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133230	I can hear that the rapporteur has misunderstood what the proposal is about. After all, I have been in contact with people who feel persecuted, and I cannot understand why one should not try to defend the kind of pupils who feel that they are being watched who feel that their freedom is restricted, who have problems in coming to an educational institution. I do not think that Danish society can be familiar with setting up an environment that makes it difficult for a small group of students, and here we are talking about Muslims, so I would like to say that I am doing this to defend some Muslims who want to be Muslim in a way that does not everyone think is the right way. I cannot understand why the rapporteur will not support this, and I cannot understand why the rapporteur should make such insinuations that we should be trying to harass certain particular religious groups. No, we're doing this to defend some Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133337	The Enhedslisten is absolutely against social and religious control. Not only do we think we should reject this, but we also need to take action against it. I do not deny that the rapporteur may have been reported on a problem or perhaps a few problems, I do not want to deny that at all. I have no reason to contradict that. We simply believe that linking it to the question of the praying room does not give any reason whatsoever for us to make a general ban such as that proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133410	I think that's sad. It is also such a difficult announcement to make to those people who have these problems and who, by their very nature, cannot raise them publicly. That's why we know so few people, that's because they have to come to somebody anonymously and tell about it before we get it out. It is therefore strange that the rapporteur does not want to help create an environment in which all religious groups can feel safe and not feel monitored and forced into a certain way of life, knowing now that there are people who have these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133451	I do not deny that there may be some who are experiencing problems. I do not think that should be neglected. It is so important that those concerned turn to the head of the school or to the public authority which is now dealing with the educational institution in question, but it is not every problem we encounter in our society that we should answer by making general legislation here in the Folketing. So we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133513	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jakob Silverhøj and passes on the floor to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133522	Thank you for that, President. When the Danish Parliament dealt with a similar proposal from the Danish People's Party last year, I was also the rapporteur on the matter, and I said, among other things, that I had the starting point that public institutions should in principle be secular. I mentioned at the time, and I will do so again, the courts as an example, and I mentioned the hospitals. I also mentioned that education institutions should have a secular character, and I did so, moreover, knowing that both Mrs Krarup and myself are students from a school called Ribe Cathedral School. Nevertheless, despite its name, it is a complete secular school in which free and critical and rational thought can prevail. That is why, of course, it is important that we ensure that our state institutions are secular. We can't disagree on that. Then there is the question of how to manage in a proportionate way. Should a central ban be imposed, or should the decision on the organisation of the institutions be left to local management? As the situation is in 2018, I believe that a central ban is out of proportion to the scale of the problem, and I believe this especially in view of the fact that since last year, as the Minister also pointed out, the Minister has now issued a shepherd's letter. So it is not a fundamental disagreement about the secular nature of the institutions that separates us, but it is the question of whether, in the situation that exists, in the specific situation that exists, we should adopt a law, draw up a decree, send it out and enforce the law, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen also mentioned, which is the crucial point. After all, no one can know whether the situation will be different in the future, and then I think we should take the matter up again. For what is unproportional today can easily be proportional at a later stage. But so far, I think that local leaders should make the decision to maintain their institutions secular, and that is why we cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133804	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133807	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for this little straw that the Liberal Alliance clings to for their explanation, i.e. that it is an administrative burden. It is also a huge administrative burden to see whether there is a room or not. Hello, that is not something that needs to be filled in many forms. Actually, nobody needs to be filled in. It is a matter of physical space being set aside for prayer room. This proposal does not deal with the principal's or principal's right to decide whether there should be prayer at the school in other rooms, but it deals with a ban on having a room that is permanently used for prayer. Because that's what gives this social control. The second part of it, i.e. whether there should be any prayer at all at a school, is another issue that I think should be decided locally. But it is about having the right to have a room that is only designed on it and where we know from experience that if you have it, it is used for Islamic prayer and it is used for social control. It is not an administrative burden to see if there is such a room. Even the Liberal Alliance just can't say that in earnest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133924	Even very small examples of bureaucracy are bureaucracy. So we must try to fight where it occurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222133933	Yeah, yeah, and it's the straw that breaks the camel's back, right? But I think it might cover up the fact that we agree that there should be no room for prayer, but that there are some administrative things that make the Liberal Alliance unable to vote in favour of this, and I think that is of course a pity. It also shows some of the problems we are facing here, so there are some who are not really reporting quite clearly in these areas where they have a lot of right attitudes, but unfortunately do not put them through where they are needed. It suffers from integration, and so there are some of the more secular, the so-called moderate Muslims, who suffer particularly because they have the problem that they have more difficulty in being allowed to live the free life that we really want here in Denmark. I believe that the Liberal Alliance also wants them to have the opportunity to live the free life that we are usually used to in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134030	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we do not disagree very much on the principle, and I also emphasised that what is perhaps a very unproportional issue in 2018 may well be proportional in 2019 or 2020. And since a good motion for a resolution cannot be tabled too often, we may be able to table it again and then we can come up with something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134053	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl and gives the floor to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134059	Thank you. I was travelling during the winter holidays and was at several airports, and I noticed that most airports now have a quiet room, a reflection room, a room where travelers can go in and have a break, pray, or whatever they want. It is, of course, a respect for travellers who use airports. A few years ago, when I worked a few years in Tryg, it was when Stine Bosse was there that the whole organization was rebuilt, that is, the house out there in Ballerup. In fact, one of the things that was emphasized was the need to set up a still room, a reflection room, for the employees. Some years later, when I was at the Rigshospitalet, I worked closely with the priests and the imam, and we also had a great focus on having a room available for the patients that they could use to retire to pray or just have a quiet moment. It's funny that I come to the Danish Parliament, and then we stand here and discuss whether the Danish Parliament should decide that public educational institutions should not have a prayer room, a reflection room or a quiet room. So I think there are several things in this, one of which is, of course, the liberal principle that you as an educational institution should decide for yourself whether there should be a prayer room, a groom or a reflection room, or whatever you call it, in the institution. In the alternative, we think this is a local resolution, which is why we are clearly voting against this resolution. So did we when we were here a year ago. This is primarily because it is therefore an autonomous decision which we believe lies in the public educational institutions and not with us here in the Folketing. Something quite different is that the whole idea of making a room available to the students, where those students who may enjoy it and need it can have a quiet moment, is actually extremely sympathetic. This does not mean that we do not recognise that there may be problems in some places, and where there are problems, they must of course be dealt with, and they must of course be resolved, but it cannot be a solution that consists in the fact that we in the Folketing are prohibiting the making of these rooms. It must be something that's going on locally. So we say no to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134324	Thank you very much. There is a brief question from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134328	Well, I just want to elaborate on how it can be sympathetic to provide some surroundings that we know are being exploited in many cases to control and suppress some people who want to live a different life. How can that be sympathetic? No one is saying that one should be prevented from praying, but that does not mean that there should be a certain room set aside for it and where some can control who comes in and prays in a certain way. I don't understand how you can think it's sympathetic to make such an environment as we know is being used for this. How can we, as legislators, accept that our public educational institutions are allowed to create an environment which we know is ineffective in terms of integration; which we know makes it difficult for some Muslims who want to live secularly to be present at such an educational institution? I find that hard to see can be sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134434	Thank you. These are, after all, violent generalisations that Mrs Krarup is making: we know that they are detrimental to integration; we know that these spaces are being used counterproductively in relation to what is intended. But the Ministry of Education has made a study which shows the extent, that is, how many spaces there are. And I would just like to ask that, when you make such violent allegations, you also document them. So that will be my answer back. Something else is whether it is sympathetic to make those rooms available. Yes, of course it's sympathetic. Is it sympathetic if you abuse them? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134505	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134507	I think that is a lack of respect for those people who feel it as a pressure. There have been articles in the newspapers. The Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned that he was familiar with examples. I know of examples. But it is not something that necessarily comes up on the schoolmaster's table because it is very, very sensitive, and it is very, very difficult to say it in its own social context, because that is where you are under that pressure. So I think it's very superficial just to sweep it off like there's no problem. Actually, there is. And if there is just one problem, then I think it should be questioned whether we, as legislators, should ensure that environments are made available so that we can better carry out social controls which most of us actually think are wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134601	First of all, I do not think that it would solve the problems that Mrs Krarup is talking about if we were to ban the making of prayer rooms, because people would certainly do the illegal work elsewhere. It's such a perspective. But something else is whether we in the Folketing should make policy that we know about examples. I just want to be a politician who has also been elected to defend the interests of the electorate and, in general, to secure some kind of democratic substance in our work, never be a politician who stands up and says that I will make policy on the basis that I know of examples. I mean, it is fair enough that we are familiar with examples and, of course, we must also take them into account, but that must not be what we are basing our national legislation on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134648	Here we thank the alternative rapporteur and move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134657	Thank you. Denmark is based on a number of fundamental freedoms and extensive decentralisation to local communities and institutions locally. We have had a tradition of this for centuries. Religion, as you know, is a matter of conscience and thus a personal matter, and therefore the individual's religiousness does not concern others. And that is why, of course, we can have problems with the design of, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. On the other hand, we should not have a society of over-management. What you can handle locally, of course, we have to let people handle locally. There may be lots of relationships that play at the local level and that we cannot sit and know about here in the Folketing. And students travelling locally in educational establishments must relate to what is happening around them, and therefore also help to resolve any problems that may arise. We should not interfere with that in the Parliament. There are student councils, there are student councils, there are all kinds of organisations that can address the type of issues that B 57 deals with, and if a room is used or can be used for prayer rooms, students must take it up if they think it leads to something that it should not lead to, namely control of the individual. So it's very simple: we have to trust our fellow human beings around society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134837	There is one brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134842	That's very sweet and very good. Of course we should have confidence, but since it is now a situation in which some very vulnerable young people feel pressured, is it so likely that they raise it here in a student council or go up to the principal's office and talk about it? They'll be watched when they go up there. Everyone's gonna ask them, what were you talking to the principal about? The people I've talked to haven't been able to do it at all. They're miles away from it. It is therefore wrong for us to allow legislation to have an environment that makes it much easier to carry out this kind of social control. Of course, we will never be able to solve all the problems of social control. This is just a tiny part of it. But we are helping to make it possible. We allow schools to build a scenery that is being used for a game that we think is wrong. And then we think the students can solve it themselves, but they just can't, because they're so vulnerable in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222134949	They are obviously not so vulnerable that they cannot address Mrs Krarup and tell her about their vulnerability and what they are experiencing. And that is why I would be really, really grateful and really serious about meeting some of the young people who have come to Mrs Krarup to complain about the situation they are experiencing at their place of education. I really, really wanted to talk to some of them. I just haven't met them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135014	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135017	The people who come up with such problems here do it in the deepest secret. They are afraid that someone will find out that they are putting this on the agenda. There is a very, very great fear of being revealed because it has so great consequences for their private lives. However, as the rapporteur has heard before, there are other rapporteurs here who have experienced people being exposed to this. It exists, although it is not something that people dare to stand up and say in the open space. I hope there are some people who are addressing Mrs Marianne Jelved on this issue, but that requires them to have deep confidence that it will not go further and of course I am sure they can have that too. But the problem exists; there are several of us who have met it. The fact that Mrs Marianne Jelved has not met it is not the same as the fact that it does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135119	With the knowledge I have of educational institutions and it's actually quite a great knowledge over a lot of years I have great confidence in the management of such institutions. And if there are those kinds of overruns that I had almost said one's personal boundaries as a student, then I certainly hope that there are both teachers and rectors and inspectors, and what do I know who has a sense of that kind of thing. They are among the young, and the young are also familiar with each other. Therefore, Mrs Krarup, it is part of a democracy that you are also able to relate to what is bothering you and what is bothering others and which you want to change. That is also what we need to learn here, and we need to be helped to do so. And I am a very happy listener to some who have had the problems that were explained in connection with Mrs Krarup's speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135219	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. And then we move on to Mrs Tina Boel, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135228	Thank you. In SF we have a strong focus on the problems of social and religious control, which is why we have among other things. The emphasis is on women in isolated religious environments in education and into the labour market. And we have helped to strengthen supervision in the field of free school and private school in two ways, so we have the certainty that all children are prepared to live in a democratic society. However, in SF we believe that the focus should always be on the real problems, and the spread of religious prayer rooms at Danish educational institutions is not a big problem. Firstly, last year's study showed that there is no widespread phenomenon. Of the 1,261 educational establishments wishing to participate in the study, only 27 have replied that they have a prayer or immersion room. The same fact showed the responses to the consultation which came in connection with the examination of the proposal in the last session. Secondly, we in the SF believe that it is a political bias that we, as legislators, begin to regulate in detail how self-serving youth education or other educational institutions organise their teaching and local conditions. Thirdly, according to the Institute of Human Rights, a ban on praying rooms in public educational institutions could easily constitute an interference in the freedom of belief and religion and other fundamental human rights currently protected by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. The SF will not contribute to this and therefore the SF will vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135435	We thank the SF rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135444	B 57 is virtually identical to a previous resolution from last year. The Danish People's Party withdrew the old proposal and sent it to a hearing because it emerged at first reading that some parties would support the proposal if it were sent in consultation first. Now the proposal has been consulted, and not surprisingly, it has been found that there is not a very large proportion of the educational institutions that have praying room for gratitude, I would say. In the field of education and research, it is 10 out of 37 institutions, and in the field of education, 27 institutions have answered yes to praying. But far from all the institutions have replied. So we really don't know exactly how many there are, but at least there are at least 37. When we in the Danish People's Party think it is important to legislate in this area, even though fortunately there are as few prayer rooms as there are, it is because we have experienced that students and students have been sad to feel forced into a certain lifestyle. This has been done by allowing other groups of students to monitor whether they have used the prayer room for the mandatory Islamic prayers. A prayer room has thus created the framework for the exercise of social control of a kind that is certainly not needed at a Danish educational institution. In addition, one place has also been found radicalizing literature in a prayer room. It is therefore to be feared that prayer room will also provide a framework for Islamic radicalisation. Neither is desirable in Denmark. Of course, this proposal does not solve all the integration problems in Denmark far from it. It does not solve all problems of social control in Denmark. But it may help in just a tiny area and can make it easier for young Muslims who want to live a more secular life, choose an educational institution and feel comfortable there. We have heard other parties speak much more positively recently about legislation in these soft areas of integration, where we defend Danish culture and Danish freedom. We have heard other parties talk about that, for example. is a good idea to legislate that there should actually be pork in the food plans of the institutions. We have always thought so ourselves in the Danish People's Party, because we want to defend Danish culture and Danish freedom. That is why, of course, we are pleased that other parties have been given it in this way. Unfortunately, it is not just self-sustaining and defending Danish culture and freedom. We are pleased that the Minister for Education has sent out a shepherd letter to the educational institutions that they should consider whether a prayer room is a good idea. It's just not enough. Because that has not made the prayer rooms disappear, and so we still have the same problems of social control. Because when we want to ban the prayer rooms, it is in order to give everyone the freedom that should be self-written in Danish society, namely that one can choose to live as one wants, without being monitored and controlled. If you can be monitored and controlled, you will thus find it harder to become part of the Danish society • integration is made more difficult. We had therefore very much hoped that other parties, especially those who voted in favour of the proposal last time, would have been able to support our proposal. But thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135908	Thank you. Perhaps I would like to take this opportunity to learn a little more about what the Danish People's Party really wants to do with this motion for a resolution. So I actually just have a few questions. First of all, I would very much like to hear: if the resolution becomes law at some point, how does DF's rapporteur think that control itself might be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135943	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222135945	I guess it's not that hard. It's a question of whether there's a room or not, that is, a room that's set off for this. That is what the resolution is all about. It doesn't matter if there's prayer at school. After all, it is the individual head of the school that has to decide, and the vast majority of schools or very many schools have banned prayer; at least a great many high schools have done so. But checking that there's a room that's set off for this, that's set off for this, isn't that hard, I think. Well, it's as hard as finding out if there's a physics room in a school. I don't think you need an army of administrators and a lot of paper to find out. You can call the principal and ask if there is such a room, and he can hardly have a hidden prayer room somewhere; so I can't see that there's an administrative problem in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140040	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140042	Thank you for your answer. It is also just too little to look into how this is actually going to happen in practice, because sometimes we make some legislation here at Christiansborg which then will not work optimally out there in real life. So I hear, like the rapporteur from the DF, that there must be some supervisory authorities or that, for that matter, we should call and ask the rectors whether a space has been set aside where there may be a sign on the outside which there is a prayer room, or something else that makes it possible to see that it is being used for it. If so, what will the penalty be, in other words, if you take someone in that they have such a room? I would also like an answer to something else. I guess as I also read the text, it applies to all types of prayer rooms and not just pray rooms for Muslims. Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140141	I'm not familiar with how to check whether a school has a physics room, but I would recommend that you use the same kind of control. And I am not aware that it is a huge administrative burden in the Ministry of Education to find out if you have a science room or a gym in a school. A prayer room is a room that has been set aside for it and which is either called prayer room, still room, meditation room, or whatever you call it. That means you can't hide it. So I do not see that it can in any way be difficult to find out. And if you have one, of course, you just have to close it and use it for something else. Well, I cannot imagine that there will be schools which, if ordered to close a prayer room, will say: we will not. At any rate, I find it hard to imagine that we should get out there where we are going to pay fines or something like that to a principal who wants to keep it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140241	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140246	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the Social Democratic Party has not proposed that we legislate on whether to serve pork fries in Danish daily institutions, but we have chosen to say that the municipal councils who decide to write into the municipal diet policy, whether to take religious consideration, and if so, how, deserve support here from Christiansborg, not mockery and ridicule. Like me, it is important that the hospital managers who are behind their employees when a patient, for example. refuse to be treated by a Muslim nurse, says: It is not for discussion that we have hired him on the basis of her professional qualifications, and it is either the treatment or no treatment. Similarly, we believe that it is important to be firm that schools are secular, non-religious institutions. There is no need to cast doubt on the attitude of the Social Democratic Party. What we are discussing is the level at which the problem must be solved. We believe, for example, that kindergarten is a municipal institution. Therefore, the municipal councils should consider whether there is a need to write it into the municipality's dietary policy. The Gymnasians are state-owned institutions, and it is therefore relevant that the Danish People's Party should take up this motion for a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly. But if we are to assess the level at which decisions are to be taken, then it must be important to what extent the problem exists at all. That is why it is reasonable to point out that study and say that when it is such a marginal problem, we certainly do not think that there is any basis for saying that this should lead to legislation. It does not matter in relation to our attitude as to whether there should be a prayer room. It matters in relation to our position on whether to legislate from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140422	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140425	As I have said several times during the debate here, it is very difficult to establish the extent of the problem ■ it is very difficult. It's time for another investigation. You cannot just call the heads of schools and see if there is a problem, because they are not the ones who can feel it. They will rarely be told. It will be difficult for a student to draw attention to it. So we do not actually know exactly how big it is, but we know that there is a problem that we have been in contact with such people. That's one. The second is that I think that in Denmark for too long there has been this attitude, which Bertel Haarder expressed several years ago with the words that he was not a minister of scarves, liver patey and shower curtains, and therefore it was just things that you had to find out for yourself in the individual institutions. That is why I was very pleased when I read that the Social Democrats wanted to back those who didn't have that laissez faire attitude that they just have to find out for themselves. That is why, of course, I am a little disappointed that it is the reaction of the Social Democrats today that they want to stand and applaud their hands, but in fact they do not want to do anything with the means at our disposal, so go out and defend the people who are at risk and have this problem and want to be integrated into Danish society, but face the resistance of a social control that we promote by providing some backdrop and a framework for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140550	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140554	I understand that Bertel Haarder said this many years ago because we come out of a very homogeneous culture, and that is why we have had a lot of unwritten rules in Denmark on how to behave. I think if I had put on a hat when I was in 9th grade, my teacher would have asked me to take it off. Today you can go to a publicly funded high school on Nørrebro with burka. It really tells us something about what has moved in just a few years. Such unwritten rules are being challenged, and it is therefore quite reasonable that there should be a political debate on whether there is a need to write down some of the unwritten rules. I think that is quite reasonable, and that is why I think that this discussion is quite reasonable. Of course, we can have a discussion about how exhaustive the study that has been carried out is. I would say that when I have visited a number of these educational institutions myself and talked to both management and teachers and students, I can see that this is under discussion. And if there isn't a room, it happens in the canteen or in the basement, and then the management has to deal with it. That is why I think it is appropriate to discuss it. My experience is that everyone other than a single high school principal I've talked to has said: let's handle it ourselves, we can handle it with the tools we have now. I have only met one principal who has said: I am so tired of discussing this, would you please pass a bill? I think that is too little for intervention, even in view of the fact that there should not be too detailed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140715	In fact, in the field of high school, it is something that most people have taken a stand on, and there are a lot of people who have banned it. I think that is a good thing, I am very, very pleased about that. The principals who have done so do not need this resolution because they have no prayer room and they have banned prayer in the school area. But there are other places where there is still praying room and where there are no rules on prayer in the school area. That's where you need this resolution. That is where the principal is not aware of it and where there are still young people who feel that they are being controlled in a destructive or negative way. That's where this is gonna help. One can only welcome the fact that there are some places where they can easily find out, but there are places where they cannot, and there we should help those students who feel exposed. I wish there were parties other than the Danish People's Party that supported this. I think those students deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140826	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140843	The debate is open. The first is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222140906	Thank you. With B65 the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal requiring the government to submit the necessary proposals before the end of 2018 which entail a subsidy condition for free primary schools that foreign language teaching may only take place in European languages. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. The authors of the motion for a resolution state that it must ensure a linguistic unity in the Danish education system by restricting teaching in non-European languages. It is the opinion of the proposers that this is an objective, since Denmark is a country that places Danish linguistic competences in high regard, since it is especially the Danish language that binds us together. It is also mentioned that limiting the teaching of certain foreign languages will help to ensure the work of free schools in preparing pupils to live in Danish society with freedom and popular rule. The motion for a resolution makes no clear distinction between the language of instruction and foreign language teaching in free primary schools. I would like to stress that the law of free school stipulates that the only exception is the German minority schools and the international schools which, in exceptional cases, have approved another language of education, in practice English, German and French. The proposal lays down, as a condition for the grant of free primary schools, that foreign language teaching may take place only in European languages. Such a grant condition would mean that students from homes where a foreign language is spoken other than a European language would not be able to apply for a grantable free primary school providing foreign language teaching in that language. According to the Ministry of Justice's assessment, the condition thus implies indirect discrimination against these pupils and their parents on the basis of language. Such discrimination is in accordance with Denmark's international obligations, i.e.: Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in conjunction with Article 2 of the Additional Protocol, is justified only if it pursues a worthy purpose of recognition. Furthermore, there must be proportionality between the means employed and the objective pursued. It is considered that it would not be compatible with the international obligations to introduce such a subsidy condition that free primary schools may offer only foreign language teaching in European languages. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I am very pleased with the supervisory work on the free basic schools carried out by the Education and Quality Board. That supervision takes, among other things, into account. starting from the tighter supervisory tools that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties support with the 2016 agreements. And with the new agreement of November 2017, we further strengthen the quality of supervision. In this way, we have tightened up both the procedures for setting up and the ongoing supervision of the free primary schools, among other things. to ensure that schools meet the essential requirements of freedom and democracy, education and gender equality. VLAK is the first government to have systematically gone to the task of ensuring that all free primary schools, regardless of their values, comply with the legal requirement for freedom and government, and we take the task very seriously. It is important to say that primary schools in Denmark, whether they are primary schools or free primary schools, are information points and educational places • they are of course not eclipse sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141242	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141248	Thank you, Minister. It is, of course, very disappointing that the government will not support this motion for a resolution. It respects the constitution, it respects the human rights conventions, and then there are even references to some decisions by the Court of Human Rights. I understand that the Minister refers to the statements by the Ministry of Justice that there is indirect discrimination. My question is as to why the Ministry of Justice has not then referred to decisions in this area which show that this cannot be done. As far as I understand the Minister, it is just a theoretical ride from a large number of rigid lawyers over in the Ministry of Justice, but no reference is made to court decisions. After all, we have done so in our resolution. Will the Minister help to find decisions to support the rejection by the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141353	Thank you. It is clear that in the Ministry of Education we are experts in education and not in international law and that we must therefore lean on the assessments of the Ministry of Justice in this kind of case. I am very happy to answer the question, but will have to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141416	Well, I fully understand that. I would like to repeat my question. It is important to have decisions to lean on, so that it does not just become a certain interpretation of an article it is important that there are decisions. So will the Minister support the Danish People's Party's call for some references to court decisions that show that our motion for a resolution cannot be found? ♪ 'Cause we ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141504	Thank you. As I said, I would be very happy to return with a written reply from the experts concerned. I will, of course, follow this up with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141517	With that, we thank the Minister. We are going to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, the Social Democratic Party, who is the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141533	Thank you. It is probably not a secret that this proposal, despite being called something else, is about Muslim free schools, and we have also seen with concern some of what is happening on some of them: anti-Semitism, homophobia, parallel societies, women's oppression. We have seen how many of them have been supervised, and therefore it is also so regrettable that the Danish People's Party has helped to give more money to some of the schools in question, some of the worst ones, since, together with the government, even more money has been given to free schools in general, including the Muslims. When we cannot support the proposal, it is because, for us in the Social Democrat Party, it is not about which language you speak, but about the number. We think it is a problem when you gather in a school, and that is why we would like to see if there were more than 50 per cent. with a non-western background, but with an immigrant background, one could not receive public support. So it doesn't matter whether you speak English or whether something is going on in Arabic in the schools in question. We can also discuss later when it is a European language and when it is not. So that's why we say that's the number it's about, and not what language it's about. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141636	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141638	I would just like to say that we have also reduced the taxes on cars and we have reduced the taxes on nuts, so Muslims can also get cheaper cars, and they can also get cheaper nut mixes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141651	That is nice, but it does not change the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party basically think it is really important to go to school together, and that is a different discussion than what a bag of nuts costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141701	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141704	It is really deeply disappointing that the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal. Now you've toured the country and rich around that you want these Muslim free schools closed. Here comes a bill that respects the constitution, which respects the conventions, and even has some references to human rights judgments that make this legal. Then why are we suggesting this? Well, that's because we want to make it harder to run these Muslim free schools, which the Social Democrats would like to close. With this you will not be able to have Koran education in Arabic at a Muslim free school paid by the state and including social democratic taxpayers. So why on earth does the Social Democrats not want to support this? It complies with everything that the Social Democrats would like, including the application of the human rights conventions. It is within the framework of the conventions with judicial decisions. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the Social Democrats are now completely running away from everything they have said over the past year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141807	I think we heard the same speech from the Minister. As I understood it, there were also some problems legally in the Danish People's Party's proposal, but it may be that we heard two different speeches. Having said that, I do not understand why it is better to sit and teach Koran in English if you basically think that Muslim children should go to school with Danish children. I guess it doesn't matter what language it's going on in. For us, that's the number it's about. If there are more than 50 per cent, we have not said that schools should be closed down, so they just should not have any state subsidies. This is another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141836	This proposal is designed to make it harder to run a Muslim free school. It is just one suggestion among a large number. It adheres to the constitution, it adheres to the convention, and there are references to decisions, so it should actually be right after the book, so that the Social Democratic Party could vote for it here and thus support the work of the Danish People's Party. But the way I understand the Social Democracy, it's just mouthstorms. Social democracy belongs to the talking classes. As soon as it gets concrete, you won't do anything to get rid of these Muslim free schools. That must be the conclusion of Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141923	It is not, and may I just remind you that the Danish People's Party has given more money to Muslim free schools, not less, but more money, together with the government, and there you could have made it a condition that you did not want to participate in it. So it is a little hypocrisy to stand and attack the Social Democracy, which would give less money. Having said that, it is not just about Muslim free schools. We also think it is a problem if you did a Hindu free school consisting only of Indian children who did not go to school with a single Dane, and perhaps that is the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, namely that we want you to go to school with Danish children, no matter what immigrant background you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141951	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we jump to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222141959	Thank you. In connection with the discussion of B 65, I can begin by saying that we will be voting against the motion for a resolution. Firstly, as the Minister of Education also stressed in his speech, we have been informed that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party will violate Denmark's international obligations. Of course, we in the Left are not prepared to break with them, that is to say to oppose them. Secondly, we probably do not agree with what the motion for a resolution says so that it will help to create strong linguistic units in the Danish education system. And because students learn a non-European language, it is not the case that they are not also able to master the Danish language and understand Danish culture. So we may also disagree with the Danish People's Party. I believe that when we learn other languages and, for that matter, other cultures too, it can help to strengthen our language skills and, for that matter, our cultural understanding ability. Having said that, we have recently also helped to tighten the supervision of free schools in general, together with the Danish People's Party. In fact, I think that we are also helping to ensure that things are done according to the rules. As was also said by the Minister for Education, I think it is important to mention that it is the case that there are already rules in Denmark which ensure that the language of teaching in the free schools is Danish. It's just to put it another time. There may also be some concerns for me. Now I know that it is written in the motion for a resolution that some exceptions should be made, but as I understand it, what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said here a moment ago is a question of closing Muslim free schools. I am pleased that the motion for a resolution mentions the fact that it is felt, for example, that this is the case. is okay after all also having something Chinese so you can make some exceptions. In short, however, on the basis of the points I have just mentioned, I would like to say that we in the Left will not support the resolution. In this case, too, I have promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they do not agree with the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142245	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142250	It is not true that the resolution leads to a breach of our international obligations. After all, the European Court of Human Rights has stated that the promotion of linguistic unity in society can be an objective. That is why we have references to the decisions taken in the field of languages. The Government, and hence the Left, has not been able to refer to any decisions that support the government's rejection. In fact, when it is the case that one would like to have to objectively discriminate in order to promote, for example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142351	Thank you. I must say that I really think that the Minister for Education answered very well the question that the Danish People's Party's Education Rapporteur is asking me now, namely whether it is true that this motion for a resolution does not violate the rules on human rights. I understand that very well if the rapporteur wishes to have some concrete examples. As I also heard the Minister, that is what you might be able to address afterwards, and then we will see what comes out. I have confidence in the lawyers who have provided me with this information from the Ministry of Justice, and that is really what I am dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142435	As I hear the rapporteur, she would also like to learn more about decisions that support the government. Then she has not been able to provide them, and of course that is not good enough. So if the government cannot provide decisions that support the government's rejection, would it not be wise for the rapporteur of the Left to give this resolution a chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142502	I can tell you that I am always happy to give a chance to the resolution, but I must also say that there were several things I mentioned that worried me about this proposal. That was among other things. Of course, what I have been informed by the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, but also in relation to the fact that, if this is really just a matter of closing all Muslim free schools this way, it makes me worried. That is why the rapporteur does not make me say that I am going to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142534	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142542	Quite frankly, I find it a little sad to read the proposal. It is, of course, quite obvious, even if it is slightly wrapped up, that the economic basis for running Muslim free schools in this country should be removed. I think it is unreasonable and I think it is a lack of recognition and a lack of respect for the whole basis we have for running free schools in this country. I also find it difficult to take seriously some of the comments on the proposal, i.e. when it comes, for example. Denmark is found to be a country which places great emphasis on Danish language competences. It can then be said that it is not a surprising view that we attach importance to Danish in this country, but that it should be a particularly factual reason not to teach non-European languages is difficult to see. And when the comments state that the exclusion of non-European languages will strengthen the democratic education of pupils, I think it is simply strange. That is a strange point of view and, at least, a very little reasonable point of view. So I do not think there is any reason why we are spending a lot of time discussing whether it is important to learn Danish. I do not think there are any Members present who think otherwise, so I do not think we should spend our time on that. No one will speak against the point of view, and it is simply not fair to put it as a contradiction to the acquisition of Arabic or other non-European languages. I think we received a fine letter from the chairman of the free schools yesterday, who wrote to all the education rapporteurs. He wrote to us that we should then consider it a strength for Danish society that we give room for many languages. This is a view that I fully agree with, and the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142753	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142757	I have to say that it is a rather arrogant attitude to have a motion for a resolution which has been spent quite a long time and which has been put forward in the Assembly, in order for the party rapporteurs to be able to take a position on it just so as to dismiss it as not serious and that we do not really think that we should deal with it because it is quite strange. It is actually a rather serious piece of work that has been delivered. We respect the constitution, we respect the conventions, we also respect references to the decisions taken in this area. And why this method? Because we know that there are plenty of parties and rapporteurs and politicians in this Chamber who want to comply with the human rights conventions. We have listened to that and it remains within the conventions. And then you have to listen to a rather condescending talk that this is not something that needs to be taken very seriously and that it is strange. I really think the rapporteur should take those words back. I do not think it is very respectful of a colleague's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142909	I share the view that arrogance is rarely fair, so I am sorry if it seems that way. What it means is that the proposal is very much against me. In other words, I think it is both quite unfair to Muslim free schools and that it is quite unfair to the free school tradition we have, and that is all I am trying to say. So this is not an expression of condescendingness to the work that has been done, but an expression that I simply disagree deeply with the proposal. And I would say that whether the proposal is unconstitutional or not, I have to say that the fact that the proposal is not contrary to the basic law is not in itself a very good argument for adopting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142948	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222142951	That has certainly been the starting point. Let us take up the mother tongue teaching and the letter sent to us by the president of the Free School Association a few days ago, or was it yesterday? It is, of course, the case today that there is already discrimination. EU citizens and EEA citizens are entitled to mother-tongue education, the rest have not, and that is what we have leaned on in connection with this proposal. We are simply saying to the free schools that this is the model we want to use. We do not think they should be taught mother tongues for state money when it comes to Arabic and Turkish, but that this should be done in European languages. Is it not reasonable to start from the European Union's own model?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143037	So, I simply do not think it makes any sense or is reasonable to have the view that any language spoken within the European Community can be taught and taught, but not when it is language spoken in non-European countries. And I do not think it has so much to do with the question of mother tongue teaching, because that is something that can always be discussed in the opposite way. I myself think it is sensible to have mother tongue teaching to a large extent. I just don't think it really has anything to do with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143113	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143120	Thank you. Motion for a resolution (Doc. The B65, as I read it, has two layers. There is an immediately visible layer which is about the languages that can or cannot be taught in the free primary schools, and then there is a deeper and, in my opinion, more important layer, which is the question of how the rights granted in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights are weighed against the damage which those very same rights can do to the legal order of society. What I am going to do in my rapporteur's speech is that I will concentrate on the deeper layer, that is, the rights given to the so-called principle of damage. It is a well-known fact that a large number of politicians from a large number of parties are critical of the way in which the European Court of Human Rights manages its duties, and therefore one of the main priorities of the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe is that EMD, as the Court of Human Rights is called daily, should in future act less actively than it does today. But the more fundamental question is, of course, what a country, for example. Denmark should do so if there is increasing dissatisfaction with the activism of EMD. The heroic answer is, of course, to declare that one withdraws from the European Convention on Human Rights, but I think that is an unproportional answer, because there are a large number of cases in which the Danish state has gone too far and where EMD has decided for the benefit of Danish citizens, and the protection of Danish citizens I do not think we should take away from them. To put it in popular Danish, there is much more music to do, as the Danish People's Party proposes, namely to examine the possibilities of the European Convention on Human Rights which is so built into it that it respects what is called the principle of damage, which is a good old liberal principle, originally formulated by John Stuart Mill as far back as 1859. The principle of harm says that citizens' freedom can be legitimately curtailed if it is used to harm other citizens. It is the case that both Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the Convention on Human Rights have one paragraph. 2 which, in principle, provides that the principle of damage may be applied. In fact, I believe that this is the way to go in the future, namely to work more often to document and argue that the principle of damage can be invoked. Some decisions have already been made which indicate that this is the way to go, and I think that I should look into that further. That is why I agree with the Danish People's Party in the major project, so to speak, which is to examine whether this principle of damage, which is built in, can be applied more strictly, but quite pragmatically I have to bow to the fact that, in the form in which the proposal is based, the Ministry of Justice has said that we have a problem with Article 14 of the Convention on Human Rights. I have to accept that because I am not a lawyer myself and therefore quite specifically here and now we in the Liberal Alliance unfortunately have to refuse to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143530	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143534	I'd like to thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl for a very fine speech. It is always interesting to listen to a politician who has tried to read what the resolution actually contains and who tries to raise it to a slightly higher level instead of simply dismissing it as a strange proposal. In fact, I think that is a good thing to hear from a politician. This also means that we can begin to discuss how we apply the conventions and articles. And we use them selectively. That is what the Ministry of Justice does when they use Article 14 and then the additional protocols to reject the motion for a resolution without reference to decisions. So thank you for wanting to accept the syssel it is to want to discuss the conventions and how we use them. My question is as follows: Henrik Dahl supports Dansk Folkeparti in getting the Ministry of Justice to find some decisions that support the rejection? And if it turns out that they cannot find any human rights court decisions, will it be considered to support the resolution anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143644	Both yes and no, and that's a boring politician's answer. I think you have to share this. So, it is my very sincere view that there is an intellectual issue and a political issue. And the intellectual problem which it is to challenge the whole question of the principle of damage and how it is applied, I think, simply has a longer time horizon than the examination of a resolution. I would very much like to work on examining the application of this principle of damage and making progress on it. In fact, I believe that it can be difficult to reach this resolution. However, I believe that in the future there will be plenty of occasions when, together with the government, we may be able to consider the damage principle and then try to apply it to other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143740	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143743	Sir. Henrik Dahl then acknowledges that the resolution is an attempt within the framework of the conventions to protect Denmark, including against the abuse of our trust and freedom by Muslim free schools. So this is a path supported by the Liberal Alliance, or at least the rapporteur, so that we no longer use the conventions selectively to knock ourselves in the head, but to support the nation and the frame of reference in which Denmark finds itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143825	I believe that the Danish People's Party has done a really good and thorough job trying to make some kind of paradigm change. It is a word that has been very much advanced in the newspaper headlines. But I think this is a very good thing, because I think the declaration to leave the conventions is a bad idea, but I think that the idea of understanding the conventions better and working with them in a better way is a really, really good idea, which I support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143854	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222143902	Thank you. It is funny that Danish politics has gradually come to be about whether we exceed the conventions or not. That is the parameter we are discussing, like when we discuss what kind of policy we would like to have for our society, or whether something is realistic in relation to the conventions or not. It is rather the same as when the Social Democrats came up with their foreigners' initiative; then it was also about whether it is possible and whether it is realistic. It is the same here where we are discussing conventions and whether this can be done in relation to conventions. It is true that comments in the proposal make a great deal of sense in order for it to be able to do so, but why do we not ask ourselves whether this is sensible? Is this desirable for our society, for our children and for their future? Is that respectful of our minorities? In other words, where are the questions where we are actually looking at whether this is a political proposal in itself that we would like to see? It is clear that the Danish People's Party would like it, I know that. But will the rest of us? Can we discuss this on some other grounds than whether it complies with the conventions or not? At least I'd like to do that. And I should like to start by saying that we certainly do not think this is desirable. We do not think it is sensible, but unreasonable, to deprive our children of the opportunity to learn languages other than the European ones in free schools. That is certainly unreasonable, not least in relation to how much we are going to trade with the Chinese in the future. There you could imagine that it was a language that some children would benefit from learning if you think it from a professional perspective. And from a free-minded perspective, we must not take the right from our children in relation to learning the languages that the schools consider they want to teach. Then Mr. Jakob Silverhøj just one over the head to criticise the comments on the motion for a resolution. I actually have the same criticism and I have to put myself decently but the causality is simply incoherent in the remarks. The argument is simply not good enough in the comments on the motion for a resolution. This is a justified criticism, and I suppose we should say so from the platform. Some of the things I noticed and it was quite the same as Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj noted that there is a theorem that says that with the motion for a resolution the Danish People's Party wants to strengthen the starting point that the language of teaching in Denmark is Danish, and ensure a strong Danish linguistic unity in Danish society. Then comes the next sentence, which states that limiting the teaching of certain foreign languages will also promote the work of schools in order to prepare pupils to live in a society like the Danish one. Okay! Well, what kind of causality is that? Where are the facts that support that claim? There will be nothing about that afterwards, and I think we should work on it a little when we make the comments on these motions for resolutions, that they are allowed to be facts-based or, at least, in some way, show us what these claims are like growing out of, in other words, in terms of knowledge. I think I need a little bit of that. Finally, like others, I would like to say that it is not, of course, because our students do not learn Danish in free school. It is not, of course, because we do not have supervision that has been strengthened and that, at least to the best of my knowledge, works, in other words, to the extent that there are problems with democratic formation and freedoms and the demand for the rule of the people. So I see no need at all in this resolution and, as I said, the alternative cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144237	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144242	It is very funny that when my colleagues in the Parliamentary Assembly want to reject a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, they always refer to the conventions. They are breaking with our international commitments. If we take these international commitments seriously, we will sweep it aside, and then we will ask: is it even sensible what we are doing? Let me start with reason. Is it reasonable to have jihad material in free schools? Is it sensible for financial fraud to be committed? Does it make sense for free schools to work against integration? Is it reasonable that there are extreme organisations that are in the midst of Muslim free schools? That is why we are trying to impose restrictions on these free schools. I would like an answer to that. Is it sensible for these things to be done in Muslim free schools without us intervening?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144346	Yes, I could ask you back: is it sensible to use straws as arguments for your questions? Is there jihad material in some free schools? Yes, we have seen that there has been. Has there been any Muslim free schools that have had problems with freedom and the popular government demand? Yes, we have seen that there has been. Can we generalize and say that this is a problem for all of them? No, we can't. That is why we must argue on the basis of the knowledge that exists and not generalise on the basis of individual situations in relation to all the Muslim free schools in Denmark. I think we have had that discussion before, and we will certainly never agree on the degree of generalisation or when we can start talking about everyone as a single entity. But again: No, it makes no sense for there to be jihad material, no, it makes no sense if some people do not train children for democratic citizens. We have this oversight that captures, to the extent that it is a problem in the individual cases, and I am fully confident that supervision captures it when necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144439	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144442	The reason why supervision catches these things is that the Danish People's Party, in collaboration with the Minister of Education, has tightened this supervision. We have sharpened it so much that half of all Muslim free schools are now under some sort of supervision. So is it not reasonable that we in the Folketing should go in and sharpen it and make it harder for these Muslim free schools and their environments to set up schools and abuse our trust-based system when it has proven time and time again that they cannot comply with the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144517	There were sensible elements in it with the enhanced supervision that came in both one and the other round, and we have actually indicated this on the other side of the alternative both times. We have supported elements of the legislation that has been in place. We have not voted in favour of them because there have been elements in which we clearly could not support and which we do not think were democratic. But the strengthening of supervision as such, more resources for supervision, if needed, is not in our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144540	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Our guest is the American ambassador, welcome to the Folketing. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144552	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 65, which we are debating today, is, after all, a restriction of known freedoms in Denmark. I usually call free schools exponents minority rights in Denmark. I think it is an important concept to bear in mind that we have a tradition, a culture and a law that allows a group of citizens who have a set of values different from those of the majority to set up their own free school under certain conditions. We in the Radical Left are very pleased with this and we want to defend the freedoms that are still associated with it. Prince Henrik was in the amazing situation of six languages: French, Danish, Spanish, English, Chinese and Vietnamese. This is not something you sleep on, and it has of course cost a great deal to learn six different languages in the way that Prince Henrik could. We also know that he has been a fabulous good ambassador for Denmark with Danish business around the world, where you have used other languages and enjoyed it than European language. But we have also been interested in the teaching of foreign languages in Denmark. We have even advanced the learning and teaching of foreign languages in primary school with the latest reform, where they can already start with first-class English. That is why we should in fact also make it possible for children who grow up in Denmark with a mother tongue other than Danish to be able and use their mother tongue while learning Danish, English, German, French and other languages. In Stockholm there is a school called Rinkeby School, which I have visited sometimes, and I am actually pretty busy with that school. The school is located in a neighborhood very similar to the South Harbour District in Copenhagen, and it got a new leader at a time when there had been a lot of unrest. The new leader was quite young when he joined, and he had one vision for all children, including those who attended Rinkeby School: He believed that foreign language knowledge was one of the most important things that children could deal with and develop and enjoy in a future like the one we live in today. In fact, I very much agree with him on that. A few years passed when I visited the school again, and now that school has been sought by all children in Stockholm. For all children would actually like to go to that school, even if it was in a South Harbour-like neighborhood. For the children who went there, at least four foreign languages were able, because it was put into a system, and it was made a success criterion, that one knew foreign languages and that one knew many foreign languages. This is a great ambition, and we should also support that kind of ambition in Denmark. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution B-65.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144915	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222144920	With the motion for a resolution, free schools can continue to offer foreign language teaching in all European languages. ■ German, English, French, Italian, Czech, Greek, etc. plus the EEA languages. So they will also be able to offer Faroese, which is being spoken in Switzerland. It is even possible that they can offer Russian, Hebrew, Chinese, etc. Then you just have to turn to the Minister of Education, who will then grant an exemption. So, with this information, it seems that the rapporteur has not quite read the proposal closely. Could the rapporteur say yes to the motion for a resolution, since all these languages will now continue to be taught in Muslim free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145018	No, and I'm really sorry that Mr. Knox... Alex Ahrendtsen didn't get my point in my speech. Because I deliberately used the word native language. I believe that we have a responsibility as a society for children who are not legally qualified by nature to get to know their mother tongue so that they can talk to their grandparents in their mother tongue so that they can read their own literature in their mother tongue. In fact, I think it is an obligation that we also think about that way. We do not, but it is certainly a way that we do not have to limit the learning of our mother tongue, while learning other things and other languages, including Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145106	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145110	After all, the Ministry of Education has concluded that mother tongue teaching and mother tongue-based teaching do not in any way support pupils' learning. It is the Ministry of Education which concludes this on the basis of a major attempt by the former Socialist Government to set in motion a framework. If we now know that this is the case on the basis of research and knowledge, would it not be obvious that the Radicals support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party? For it will limit foreign language teaching, including mother tongue teaching, to European languages.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145153	Again, I must disagree with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. I am actually sorry, because it is very difficult to hear that this is a dialogue. I did not justify mother tongue teaching because it did not increase pupils' learning in other areas at all. I justified it from a cultural point of view, namely that they should be able to read their own literature in their mother tongue, that they should be able to talk to their grandparents, who are still living in another country where they speak a language other than that of European languages, for example. So that is the cultural background that I would like to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145230	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Tina Boel, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145238	Thank you. In Denmark we have a tradition of having both primary and free primary schools, and the SF has no desire to do away with that structure. At the same time, we also have a set of rules for the free primary schools, which emphasise that education must measure up to what is generally required in primary school. That is why we do not believe that there is a need to tighten up the requirements for the languages taught, among other things. because the main language of a free primary school must be Danish. Only in exceptional cases can the Ministry approve that the language of instruction should be different from that of Danish. The last possibility seems to SF should remain there, not least because we live in a globalised world where there should be good educational provision for the increasing number of foreign-language children and families, including from outside Europe, living a shorter or longer period in Denmark. In conclusion, I would just like to mention that the SF has already on two occasions helped to tighten up the supervision of free primary schools, so we have the certainty that all schools are working to prepare pupils to live in a society of freedom and democracy. That is why we do not think there is a need for further tightening of the regulatory framework for free primary schools, and that is why the SF is voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145422	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222145441	Thank you, President. Thank you for the debate. The starting point of the proposal was, of course, that the Danish People's Party, within both the framework of the constitution and the Convention, would try to limit the activities of Muslim free schools in Denmark. I must say that most of the debate was expected. On the other hand, it is deeply disappointing that the Social Democratic Party will not now agree to such a proposal. After all, they have toured the country and rich around with the intention of closing Muslim free schools. These were the words of the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. But when it comes to the play down here, you will not be supporting and supporting the tools that make it harder to have a Muslim free school in Denmark. So my main appeal to the Social Democratic Party is that it is quite clear that it is a party belonging to the talking classes; when it comes to concrete action, nothing happens. That is why it is so sad to have to see time and again how the Social Democrats in the media say one thing and in the Assembly room say another. That is simply not right. After all, the rapporteurs of the other parties represent well-known arguments. We know them; one can disagree with them, and one may think it is too bad. However, the Social Democratic Party is rather sluggish, and I think it is simply too bad that a party cannot be consistent; that it wants to do something on the outside, but it does not want to do anything in the Chamber, especially when this proposal is as well worked out as it is. What is interesting is that it stays within the framework of the Constitution. And why do I say that it stays within the framework of the Constitution? Because it's pretty crucial. Not many people know that the Constitution is at the top. The Constitution is above the conventions, it is above the European Union, it is above the United Nations. The Constitution is at the top. Under the Constitution comes all the obligations that we have agreed to, including the conventions. So we set ourselves the task within the framework of the Constitution, within the framework of the Convention, with references to decisions of the Court of Human Rights to have a motion for a resolution knitted together that would support the will of the Social Democratic Party to close Muslim free schools. Because we know that the Social Democrats are very concerned about the conventions. Then we come down to the hall and nothing happens. The second thing I want to say is that we should be able to discriminate. It refers to Article 14 of the Convention and says that there must be no discrimination at any time, but that is not right. If discrimination is factually and objectively justified, it may be discriminated against. Article 14 is always linked to other Articles and Additional Protocols. It's never alone. And that is factually and objectively justified when you refer to languages. There are court rulings by the Court of Human Rights to refer to, and that is what we are talking about, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). There is simply a clear case law from the European Court of Human Rights. That's factually justified. Then why have we tried to make use of these conventions? Normally, the Danish People's Party is not particularly fond of conventions and court rulings. But we have actually tried to put forward a proposal which responds to what most parties always want: is it within the conventions? I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is extremely disappointing that you have not come across us in any way, just a little bit, in this area. So to the government and that is especially the Minister of Education: we will have to get hold of the Ministry of Justice. It must be a minister; a minister must have the legal basis and convention practice in place. But I must also say, with the weak knowledge I have about the area, that the reply of the Ministry of Justice is simply not good enough. It is not enough simply to refer to an interpretation of the articles that one can expect a Ministry of Justice to refer to decisions, but this has not been done in the reply given to the Minister by the Ministry of Justice. That is why we in the Danish People's Party will continue to pursue this matter, and we will ask the Ministry of Justice to make very clear references to decisions that support the government's rejection, because there is not. In our motion for a resolution, we have references to decisions which support the fact that we are allowed to make this model. The model is very simple, because it provides grants for free schools only if foreign language teaching takes place in European languages and the languages available in EEA countries, and at the same time there may be an exception, which may be a derogation for languages from countries which, in experience, do not oppose integration. That's what this is about. We know that there are a large number of free schools, and it is Muslim free schools in particular, which are working against integration, where extreme material has been found, where there are contacts with extreme organisations, where there has been financial fraud and where things have simply not been sorted out. Therefore, 15 out of 29 of these free schools today are under some form of supervision, tightened or general supervision, and 2 of these schools have even lost their state subsidies. I assume that there may be more coming, because what we hear is certainly not good. In conclusion, I would just like to say that it is an important social concern to ensure a linguistic community in Danish society; that is why we are here in the Folketing. Our primary task is to ensure a linguistic community. In addition, it is of course also important to speak foreign languages. It has always been important for Danes that we can do this in foreign languages, and this proposal will continue to do so. It is a heartfelt attempt, within the framework of the Convention and the Constitution, to impose restrictions on the attempts of extreme groups to exploit the law of free school, to abuse the confidence we have towards citizens of this country so that they can set up free schools, which we support in the Danish People's Party. These should be my final remarks. Thank you for the debate. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150307	There are just a few brief comments before we can conclude the debate. First, it's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150315	Thank you. I thought our parties had become such good friends, but it's fine that there is a difference. Because it is true that we are very concerned about the conventions. The Danish People's Party has helped to provide the schools that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen criticizes, even more money. So it is hypocrisy to stand here and attack the Social Democratic Party, which has voted against the idea that free schools should have more money. These schools, which are placed under tighter supervision, have the Danish People's Party, together with the government and virtually all the other parties, given more money, not less money. Having said that, the proposals of the Danish People's Party do not solve the fundamental problem. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Azerbaijan are also Muslim countries, and one would be able to teach in those languages while one cannot sit a group of Japanese and do a free school. This is not connected unless one is specifically in search of Muslims not to set up a free school, but that other immigrant groups may and must receive public funding for it. So that doesn't solve a problem. We think you should go to school with the Danes who are there, and otherwise you should not have a public subsidy. That's the difference. But the proposal does not solve anything in relation to parallel societies. They will still be possible with the proposals of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150420	No, it is absolutely true that it does not solve all problems, but it will then make it a little harder to run a Muslim free school, because what parents stress is that there is Koran education in Arabic and that there is mother tongue teaching in Turkish and Arabic. That's one of them. Therefore, the parents send their children there. With regard to the second point, I would say that it is merely bypass talk that we have been involved in raising the link rate, yes, it has also saved Muslim free schools, and yes, the Danish People's Party has been involved in that. But that is nothing but extravagance, dear Socialists. You know, if you really wanted to do something about these Muslim free schools that you keep saying in the media that you want to, get in the fight. I've had meetings with some of Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen's colleagues, and nothing has come of it. I have even had to table, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, resolutions on the 50-percent rule, as the Social Democratic Party has said for over a year that they would do. Nothing has come of it. And that's why it's so disappointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150528	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150531	Well, it's very important when you stand and criticize certain Muslim schools, and even mention some of them, and what has happened, that you give more money to them, regardless of what you wrap it into. I think this is very important when attacking another party for being hypocrites. Having said that, I do not understand why the Danish People's Party thinks it would be better for a group of Albanians to sit down and do an Albanian school with Koran education in Albanian, while it would be the case that if a group of Indians gets together, it is a bigger problem. That's what I don't understand. For us, it is basically not about what religion you have; it is about going to school with those who live in the country in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150605	The thing is, there's equality before the law. If there are subsidies for a free school through the coupling rate, all free schools must have it, including Muslim free schools. In other words, because there are 29 free schools with problems, this should not prevent us from supporting the free school sector in its entirety. And that's why it's so lazy of the Social Democratic Party that they won't help the Danish People's Party to get rid of those who really use the system. Then Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen Albanian free schools There are no Albanian free schools. It's a strawman argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150647	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150651	Thank you. One of the things that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur said in this speech was that it is important to be able to do in foreign languages. I would just like to ask directly: what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks is that it is Arabic and Turkish that we should not then be able to commit ourselves to. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150724	In other words, if there is a majority in favour of the proposal, it will not be possible to set up a free school providing foreign language teaching and mother tongue teaching in Arabic and Turkish for state crowns, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150737	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150740	Thank you. As I have also read, it is true, as the rapporteur has also said, that derogations should be granted, and it is then the Minister who decides which other types other than European languages should be able to teach mother tongues. And I suppose that these derogations, depending on which minister is then in the chair, will also allow for the possibility of dispensing for Arabic and Turkish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150817	No, because it is so cleverly worded that the languages should then come from countries that are not expected to create integration problems. And we know from experience that integration problems most often originate from Middle Eastern societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150835	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief remarks and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180222150851	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 23 February 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
