ParlaMint-DK_20180315100146	11.30, starting with votes. There will be lunch break as usual. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113009	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 186 (Proposal for a Law on the refund of unlawful and incompatible State aid in the field of the tax for the protection of drinking water) and Bill No. L 187 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Coastal Protection, the Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Concrete Projects (EIA), the Law on Nature Conservation, the Law on Hunting and Game Management and various other laws. Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to increase the penalty for disturbing the work of the Folketing to a minimum of 14 days in prison and a maximum of 3 years) and motion for a resolution No. B-94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on post-initiation payment). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the trial of free cashiers with cash benefits without counterclaims). Mikkel Dencker (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of registration plates with Dannebrog). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the use by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal justice (the annual report on legal certainty). R 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113141	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113159	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113313	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113331	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113403	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113426	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 75 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113458	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113518	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 21 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113547	Does anyone wish to speak? I have to ask for a little more quiet when you leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113624	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-2, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113728	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113753	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113810	The debate is open. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315113828	Thank you so much. This proposal, which we are going to deal with here today, is partly linked to the new defence settlement. There we agreed on a number of things, and I can tell you that it was not just a fingerprint, but a solid footprint that was deposed by the Social Democrats. For what we fear is the new era of crime, and we, together with the other conciliation parties in the conciliation, have written in that protection of Denmark against cyber attacks is significantly strengthened in the coming conciliation period. Sensor networks are being developed, a cyber situation centre is being established, and Centre for Cybersecurity analytical and preventive competences are being strengthened. A pool of 500 million shall be set aside. kr. addressing the cyber challenges of the future, while strengthening and focusing research and education efforts, Denmark is at the forefront of the latest developments in the coming years. In concrete terms, however, the draft law is the result of the new EU Data Protection Regulation, which will apply from 25 May 2018. In parallel with this, we have the Minister for Justice's proposal for a new data protection law, L 68, and I assume that there will be a parallelism in relation to the date of entry into force. But it is the case that the Personal Data Act has not been updated to include the Center for Cybersecurity, and it must, of course, include that. Although the law on the centre contains clear rules for the processing of personal data, there must be a clear legal basis for the operation and procedures of the centre. The Cybersecurity Centre must, of course, comply with applicable legal requirements both in the Data Protection Regulation and in the future Data Protection Act. That is why it is very important for us to be able to meet the current and future challenges in an area such as cybersecurity, not least in defence. In recent years the public has seen more and more cyber attacks by unknown perpetrators, and therefore, to the extent that Denmark is able to do so, we must be able to react with reason and determination, and we must also be able to protect our citizens from misuse of the information provided voluntarily to the Danish authorities and the like. In the hearings we have read a number of more or less important comments and we must therefore have clarified during the committee's work whether there is anything more in these objections. Of course, we must have the most appropriate and understandable legislation, while at the same time protecting citizens and information best from being abused by outsiders. I therefore look forward to having a good discussion in committee and the Social Democrats can help to implement the proposal when we have a guarantee that the processing of personal data under the bill will continue as far as possible in accordance with the applicable law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114126	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114135	Thank you, Madam President. I am the rapporteur on this bill on behalf of Marie Krarup, who cannot be here because the sitting was postponed for a few hours. The draft law amending the Cybersecurity Center Act aims to implement the necessary amendments as a consequence of the new Data Protection Act and the Data Protection Regulation. The aim is to maintain the current legal position and it supports the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114211	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114224	Thank you for that, President. The EU Data Protection Regulation will enter into force at the end of May. Part of the new regulation deals with personal data and the Cybersecurity Centre, whose essential task is to protect Denmark from cyberattacks, is not covered by the current Personal Data Protection Act. However, a wide range of key principles of the Personal Data Act for the processing of personal data have been incorporated into the legal framework of the Center for Cybersecurity. The legislative proposal we are now considering must ensure that the implementation of the new legislative proposal is kept under constant review, but also that the new regulation can be implemented and that the Cybersecurity Centre can continue its work on the security of the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114331	Cybersecurity is really, really important, in other words, that we can protect our core infrastructure from attacks. It makes really, really good sense that we need to strengthen this area. However, the context of the proposal we are debating today is that at the same time we are currently dealing with a law on data security in the Folketing, and it is also very important that we strengthen data security. And one of the problems in this law on data security is that it will actually exempt the Defence Intelligence Service and hence also the Cybersecurity Centre, which is under the responsibility of the Defence Intelligence Service, from the rules, which will otherwise apply to all other authorities, and which will ensure that data security and citizens' rights are respected. I find that very, very problematic, that is to say, that some exceptions are made in that law. What we have here today is an attempt to patch it up in such a way by putting some of the rules into the Center for Cybersecurity's own description. However, in my opinion, this is completely inadequate, especially because the Cybersecurity Centre, as it looks right now, is getting more and more tasks. Right now, we are also dealing with proposals in the field of business, transport and health, which actually set the Cybersecurity Centre as the key point of contact in cyber-attack cases. This also means that the Centre will have a greater and greater role to play, and it is so important that we use this opportunity right now to stop and have a discussion of the way in which the Centre for Cybersecurity has been placed under the auspices of the Defence Intelligence Service, which is simply not appropriate. This is not the best way to do it in terms of ensuring proper cybersecurity, and I do not think it is a proper way to do it in terms of ensuring proper supervision and proper control and transparency of that work, and that personal data and other things are treated in a sound way. Therefore, we need to have a discussion that we need to have a different structure for this work, so the center, for example. is made a civil authority, as is also the case in many other countries. This also ensures that data protection rules cover the whole area. I would just like to mention, as an example, that in Estonia, the Netherlands, Finland, Norway and France this is done in a completely different way by making it a civil authority in most places and by putting it under, for example. The Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Transport or any other Ministry of Justice. It's easy to do this as a civilian authority. And I think we should use this opportunity now to clean up, so that we put the Centre for Cybersecurity as a civil authority where it belongs, instead of making such patchwork solutions here, where, on the one hand, with one law on data security, we exempt the entire Defense Intelligence Service and, therefore, also the Centre for Cybersecurity from these very important data protection rules and, on the other hand, sits and writes bits into the centre's own foundation. This is simply not a proper way of doing things. That is why we in the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal that lies here, and I really hope that other parties in the Danish Parliament will take advantage of the opportunity to have a fundamental and very, very important discussion that this should be changed before it is too late.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114723	Then I'll have to ask, sir. Peter Juel Jensen to come up here, because unfortunately we have not yet reached the point of correcting the error in the sound system, that one can make the brief comments from one's place... It works now? That's good. Fine. The microphone's glowing. Then things are under control so far, at least. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114742	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. It sounds like sitting here listening to the rapporteur as if the Cyber Security Centre is not regulated in any way. That is not correct. There is still room for the Control Committee to keep up with that work. It is also the case that, in the legal framework behind the Cybersecurity Centre, many of the things the rapporteur is calling for have already been incorporated. Will the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114813	It is at this stage that the law on data security that we are currently dealing with clearly excludes the Defence Intelligence Service. I believe that and also the Cybersecurity Centre are a major problem. With the proposal that then lies here, some parts will be incorporated to ensure that there is some supervision, and indeed, I think that is very sensible to do in the situation you are in. But I have to say that I do not think that is enough at all. There is not enough supervision in my view, as it is now. Moreover, we can also see that the Cybersecurity Centre has, in fact, been criticized over the last few years for monitoring that data security was not in order. So I think that there is every reason to ensure that the rules apply fully and comprehensively and that this is not such a solution where you just sit and write in elements. That's one side. On the other hand, it is quite fundamental: that I simply think it is wrong that we should put something as important as the protection of our infrastructure, i.e. cybersecurity, which we fully agree is very, very important, as a military authority within the intelligence service. I simply think this is very, very inappropriate and we have the opportunity to do it differently now. Then we were completely over that problem and didn't have to sit and make such special rules here. That's what I'm appealing to us to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315114935	I'm afraid the sound system isn't working again, but try it, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. Peter Juel Jensen There is no light in the microphone but I can speak loudly, President. ) No, because it does not come under the record, so unfortunately I have to ask Mr. Peter Juel Jensen about coming up here... we have to find out somehow. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm must go down from the platform, and Mr. Peter Juel Jensen must come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115006	I also think it is important when we debate something so important that we then answer each other's questions. What I really wanted to hear was whether the rapporteur would not confirm that many of these principles have thus been incorporated into the existing legal framework, which is already behind the Cybersecurity Centre today. So I am a little surprised that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is calling for it. Because that is actually part of the foundation of the Center for Cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115034	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115035	Thank you. It is quite true that some of the things here will be incorporated. But my problem here is that I do not think it should be up to some special law or special regulation that we are doing in each area. Because it simply cannot be as good as just saying that proper data security rules, like what we are about to decide right now, should apply to all areas, including the intelligence service, it should not be exempted, and we should put this authority in place so that it becomes civilian, so there is no problem at all that supervision is not as good as it would otherwise be if it were a civil authority. I think that this is very, very important for us to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115122	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has also asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115133	I can confirm what the rapporteur of the Left said: there are, of course, large parts of data protection legislation, or at least the same rules that apply to the Cybersecurity Centre. And then I just want to say that I think it is very natural that there cannot be full transparency about what the intelligence services are doing. Because if they are to be subject to openness about everything they find and how they work, they reveal their working methods to enemy powers, and then they make Denmark more vulnerable to attacks. So there has to be some secret about their work. I would also like to ask Enhedslisten why Enhedslisten believes that the Center for Cybersecurity, which is to protect Denmark from cyberattacks from, for example, Russia, should be located elsewhere than with the Defence Intelligence Service. That is where we have the competences, and it is playing very well with the fact that we also have an intelligence service that knows what is going on and what threats Denmark is facing. So I find it hard to see that it should be anywhere else. I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115243	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115247	Thank you for the question. When I think that the Cyber Security Centre should be like a civil authority, it is because some of the most important thing in protecting our infrastructure is also civil infrastructure. It's the transport we need to be sure that our train operation isn't crippled by a cyberattack. It can be health, it can be the whole economic area. There are some very important tasks here, which are therefore related to the civil sector. A great many other countries have chosen solutions where they make it civil. And it has to be said that many of the countries that have chosen the models and put in crucial devices to avoid cyberattacks during, for example. The Ministry of Transport or put them under the Ministry of Justice, that is, by the way, score higher on cybersecurity than Denmark does. So I really do not think there is any indication that it is not possible to implement this in a sensible way. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has a very precise grasp of what is at the heart of this: there is a part of the work of an intelligence service that must be kept secret. I just think that it is very, very problematic that the entire Cybersecurity Centre should then also be subject to the secrecy part and the lack of supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115406	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115409	I find it a little difficult to see the argument that, because the Cybersecurity Centre is supposed to protect civil society, it must not lie under the defence. After all, that is what the rest of the defence does: we only have the defence to protect our civil society, so it is no different than that the army and the Navy and the Air Force also have the task of protecting the rest of society from enemy attacks. And that competence to protect society is, after all, what one has in the defence, and that is why it is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115444	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115447	I would say that the competence to protect our citizens, for example. also lies with the police and the health services and all sorts of other places where there are also good people who take care of our common security. So there I think it might as well be. For I am simply concerned that we are in a slip here, where the Defence Intelligence Service will gain access to some information via the Cybersecurity Centre, and that the Cybersecurity Centre will have a greater and greater amount of data on both companies and citizens who are simply not well regulated. I think that is very, very worrying about legal certainty, and that is why I would like us to create a proper structure now, rather than going further down this misguided road.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115532	Thank you. And then it's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115542	Thank you. I'm sure this kind of debate will cut off the questioning a little bit. But it certainly gives more exercise, so we get something positive out of it. However, my fellow Members have explained so well the content of the legislative proposal, which we are in fact dealing with only because the Personal Data Protection Directive comes into force in May, and this is therefore a bottom-up task, because the directive comes about whether you like it or not. And that is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill, as we believe it represents a preservation of the current balance between a high level of protection for the individual citizen in relation to the processing of personal data and then the very, very special conditions that exist when our intelligence service is responsible for the security of the country and the nation. There are, however, some elements on which we need to pay particular attention and on which we need to focus our attention, and the Cybersecurity Centre for Personal Data Management, as was also mentioned in the debate a few moments ago, has given cause for concern. That's how I think I'm gonna put it. However, as I said, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315115706	Thank you. And then we do it, we take a lunch break, because now it's two minutes to 12:00. We will continue at 1 p.m. after lunch.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315125957	The sitting is resumed. Before we proceed with the first reading of L 155, I have a few announcements. From a member of the Folketing Thomas Danielsen, who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 16 March 2018 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Tinget. Marianne Bredal's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. From a member of the Folketing Lea Wermelin, who has been on leave, I have received notification that from 3 April 2018, she can again meet at the Tinget. Claus Larsen-Jensen's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130045	Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist in the series of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130051	Thank you. One way is to say that this bill is just some impact changes; it's quiet, and then you could just nod to it and go ahead in the text. But I actually think this is more fundamental than that, because it is basically about what we are currently seeing about our privacy protection, i.e. the right to privacy on the Internet and the protection of our data. It is on such a fundamental level. We are dealing with this today with L 155, and we have a number of laws we currently have. deals with the implementation of the NIS Directive, etc. etc. That is why we cannot simply say that it is very good that we should follow up a law and then move on. For basically, it is essential that the personal data regulation is complied with, and therefore, such a centre, with all the information that will be left there, must, of course, also be subject to that data protection. And you're not when you're under Defense Intelligence. So it is from something very fundamental that I think this requires more than just a quick nod and so on to something else. In fact, it requires us to go into detail on how we can ensure that the Cybersecurity Centre complies fully with and is subject to personal data law. So I am actually looking forward to it being discussed in depth in committee. Questions have been put to the NIS directive, which we can also use in the debate here, and it is about how other countries work in this area. I could imagine that there will be some more things about how other countries work with these centres. Where are they? Mrs Flyvholm has just said that they are like a civil authority elsewhere, and I think that we should take a careful look at that before we simply nod and move on to the next matter. Because right now we are in and making some very, very important decisions about our society. And I think we should take this seriously also when we make such legislation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130314	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130323	Thank you very much. This is the third legislative proposal in a series that anticipates what one might call Denmark's overall strategy for cybersecurity. We have had the whole law, L 68, as far as I remember, which is about data security, and which is the implementation of the NIS directive from the European Union, and we have dealt with the bill very recently, which identifies who should have the overall and coordinating responsibility for cybersecurity in Denmark also according to EU legislation. And today we have some kind of impact legislation of the first two. I have to say that, although we in the Radical Left of course support the full implementation of the EU Data Directive and, of course, we also support a national unit to coordinate it here, we are a little tired of saying it in Jutland that the government cannot get through with its cybersecurity strategy so that we can have these rather important decisions taken in a whole. There are two reasons why we're a little tired of this situation. One is that when we have to define who should be responsible, we have to look at what size can best obtain intelligence from other countries, can obtain knowledge and react quickly. And in that function there are some indications that the Cybersecurity Center is the right place to put responsibility, because one can coordinate easily and without problems with the rest of the Defense Intelligence Service. The second reason is that the other function that this centre should have, and which in my optics is at least as important and perhaps even more important, is that the centre should coordinate and communicate with the rest of Danish society, including Danish companies, Danish citizens and other Danish authorities. Here I am not sure that a position in an intelligence service is the most transparent and most beneficial for that function. So I think we have a real dilemma, which it is actually difficult to take a position on before we know the overall strategy on how to solve the tasks for Denmark, so that our overall cybersecurity will be the best. That is why we have been involved in asking a number of questions about some of the other legislative proposals, and we can also understand that in other countries this centre has been chosen outside the intelligence service because cooperation with the rest of society has been given a higher weight. I mention this during this legal procedure, because of course it is also about what security it is that you give Danish citizens in relation to registration. What are the possibilities for public access to documents, etc.?? How do we ensure that the world's most digitised country also becomes the world's most open and transparent country when it comes to how one's data is used and used and hopefully not abused? That is why we will also be asking further questions about the details here, namely what parts of the Personal Data Act are not being implemented in this center, and whether it would not be worth considering keeping it in the Center for Cybersecurity, but in return give the Centre a more civil status during the defense, what I have also raised during the other debates. We are in favour of strengthening this whole area together with the rest of the Folketing, which is why we also have a positive expectation of dealing with the proposal, but we have the problem of having this whole discussion reversed because the government has not finished its cybersecurity strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130713	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130716	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is for the separation of Center for Cybersecurity and putting it as a civilian authority. I very much agree that it is really important that we get that structure properly and properly done now. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur how crucial it is for the Radical Left that this structure should be sorted out. Because from my perspective, the more tasks we put into the Center for Cybersecurity, with the problems that are now, the longer we get down the wrong road. Then the rapporteur will help to ensure that we are actually trying, together, to clean up this structure now and for example. Are there any amendments to the situation as it stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130803	In other words, I would say that unless there is significant new information in the way this proposal is being examined, we will certainly give positive consideration to tabling amendments which can increase our attention in this area. It may also be that the government reaches its cybersecurity strategy. During our last reading on this issue, the Minister was at least concerned that it should come soon. Well, maybe it'll come soon, and then we can get a little smarter about it. In other words, if there is no significant new information, it is at least my view that we are trying to table some amendments. Whether or not they are decisively understood in the sense that if we do not get through with them, we will not vote for the fact that we should have a unit at all I will not promise. Because I think it is important that we establish this unit, even if it is not the way we want it to be. But I will do what I can to ensure that it is the way we want it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130853	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130855	So I would also like to ask in more detail: does the rapporteur of the Radicals consider that these rules, which are now being written in, will be as good and as comprehensive as if one could, what should one say, run over the entire data security law? Because I do not think that this is an equally good coverage of the area in question. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315130926	Well, I think that is the key issue which, frankly, I cannot fully understand on the basis of what is available. Maybe the Minister can make us smarter. I mean, when you can't just take the legislation that applies to everyone else in society, but you have to do such a parallel introduction in the Cybersecurity Centre, are there any paragraphs that go out, if you may say so? Well, is there a cover we're losing? It's a little difficult to make transparent for me. Well, there is, for example. the whole question of access to and processing of sensitive personal data, etc. Is it going to be different in this design than if the center had been a civilian authority under the Ministry of Defense? I dare not answer that question, but I hope the Minister can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131009	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131022	Cybersecurity and digital crime and the threats there are are real, and that is something that the entire Danish Parliament and all the parties in the Danish Parliament are aware of and very aware that there is a threat as well. I also know that the government and the minister are. So this is not a discussion about whether or not we take seriously the threats and challenges that exist with an increasingly digitalised society. After all, this bill is an update of the law on Center for Cybersecurity and a series of consequences changes resulting from the European Data Protection Regulation and the Danish implementation, i.e. the Danish Data Protection Act. As several of my colleagues have said, this is something we are discussing a great deal these days. We have the NIS Directive, which covers at least four resorts, and we have the discussion on how the Danish data protection law should look, the exchange of information, etc. Then there are a lot of parallel tracks, which is why we cannot say from the SF today that we can automatically support this, because this is an update of the Cybersecurity Center Act, including a data protection law, where we quite disagree with some basic elements of it. As my colleagues have also mentioned, the Centre for Cybersecurity is being given an increasingly important role and is also being given increasing powers, which is why Parliament's responsibility to be able to handle it and ensure parliamentary control is increasing accordingly. I very much agree with my colleagues from the Alternative, Radical Left and Enhedslisten that we need to look at the Centre for Cybersecurity Construction now. This is the reason to say: Is it the right place or not? There, too, we are concerned by the SF. It has been said that this bill is really what to say about patching up some elements of it in the transfer that is taking place from the fact that the Centre for Cybersecurity is exempted from the Personal Data Act and then to the new Data Protection Act, but like the Centre for Cybersecurity, where the Minister could decide that the Personal Data Act should apply in whole or in part, it will also come into play in this bill that the Minister for Defence can decide whether the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act should apply. It's under number one. 2 in the comments to the draft law. I think we are seeing a slip in that we are giving more and more powers to ministers, that is to say powers that are outside the control of the Folketing, instead of saying that this is so important that we have to have clear rules to which the Folketing has nodded. What is to apply to the data protection law in these areas, especially for a Cybersecurity Centre that is being given more and more powers and a growing role? I think that is actually an independent criticism, namely that this is too important to leave it to the Minister to decide, and it is not about this specific minister who can decide overnight whether or not the Cybersecurity Centre should be exempted from the Data Protection Act. Finally, I very much agree with those of my fellow Members who have said that and which Mr. Martin Lidegaard also mentioned that this is a rather strange process, because we have so many loose ends, and we have so many parallel tracks where there are some very fundamental questions at stake about the exchange of data, about the criticism that several of us have raised, that the Danish data protection law does not follow the spirit of the regulation. In fact, we are fortunate enough to have, for once, a European regulation in which lobbyists have not succeeded in watering it down, but in which people are so sided. I also saw that the Minister of Industry had said that, in relation to the new data protection law and the whole discussion on data ethics, it was necessary to ensure that companies had the right to their own data and to the use of their own data. That is really, really fine, but why should that privilege apply only to companies and not to citizens? So there are many major questions of principle in relation to data, data usage and how it is protected, which remains unresolved, and therefore I agree with my colleagues that we need to have a discussion on this now, and it is also a good opportunity to discuss whether the Cybersecurity Centre is in the right place. As my colleague Mrs Flyvholm mentioned, there are a number of other countries which are very similar to us and which have it as civil authorities in different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131540	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131554	Conservatives support the bill. It's not really a big change that's going to happen to this bill. It is just a continuation of the legal situation that we already have. Some wordings need to be updated in the law because there are some new directives coming into force, and we must therefore refer to some other rules than we have done so far. But otherwise it is the same structure that we have with the Cybersecurity Centre and the same rules that apply to data protection that are already in force today. Then, of course, you can have a major discussion about anything that has nothing to do with the bill, that is, where the Centre for Cybersecurity should lie, and that debate is, of course, welcome. It just has nothing to do with the bill. We believe that the Cyber Security Centre is where it should be: the Defence Intelligence Service, in which we have great faith. We think it is very natural when it comes to threats to Denmark that it lies with the intelligence service, which has a good overview of the threats to Denmark, and which has the competences to defend Denmark, also against cyber threats. So we are satisfied with the construction that exists today. We would, of course, like to take the debate on whether it should be changed, but that is not really an argument for voting for or against the legislative proposal, which, of course, merely continues the legal situation that we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131718	There will be an opportunity to take the debate. There is one question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131722	But it is not true that it is just a small technicality. For what has happened is that we have actually received a data protection regulation from the European Union, which sets down a whole new regime on how to take care of citizens' data and corporate data, etc., and that is a completely new agenda. That is also why it fills up so much in the companies, in the organisations and in the authorities, how we should implement this properly. So it is a new paradigm, and that is why I do not quite think that just one person can say that it is a continuation and that we are now replacing some references to the Personal Data Act with some references to the regulation and the Data Protection Act. That was the one thing that was a comment. I also have a question for the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that it is fine as it is. But there is, of course, a continuation of the authority of a defence minister, whether or not the law should apply. Does the rapporteur agree that that authority should be with the Minister for Defence at all times?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131827	Yes, we agree with that. We believe that there needs to be special protection for the working methods of the intelligence services, and that is why, of course, there are rules on access to documents which are different for the intelligence services in relation to other authorities. But what is still in force is that the intelligence services cannot simply do what they want with the data they have in their possession. I have not been informed that this should mean, in substance, that there should be changes in how they process data. If Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has examples of what has changed, then I would like to hear it. At least it wasn't the product of the material I've been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315131917	It is also an exciting discussion. But that's actually not what I asked. I asked whether the rapporteur agreed with what has been the practice, namely that the Minister for Defence has the authority to decide whether or not the law should apply and that we are now continuing to do so. One thoughtful example: Mrs Eva Flyvholm will be the new Minister for Defence after the next elections and will decide that the law will apply in this area. I expect that Conservatives will be opposed to the Cybersecurity Centre being exempted from the Data Protection Act. So the question was actually about the authorisation of the Minister for Defence to decide at any time whether or not to apply the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132003	Well, I answered that, too. I said yes, we agree with that. Well, I think it is a very thoughtful example, I would say, with all due respect to Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132012	Thank you. It is certainly not here that we appoint ministers, but we can give the floor to the Minister for Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132024	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate on the draft law and, of course, also for the broad support I can see for the draft law. Some questions have naturally arisen during the debate here, which it would be natural to clarify during the committee's examination of the proposal. The Cybersecurity Center Act contains a number of references to the Personal Data Act and this bill proposes the references amended as a result of the application of the Data Protection Regulation and the proposed new Data Protection Act from 25 May 2018. It follows from the Personal Data Act that the law does not apply to intelligence services. The Cybersecurity Centre is part of the Defence Intelligence Service, and the Centre is therefore exempted from the Personal Data Act. However, it should be stressed that the core principles of the Personal Data Act apply to the Centre for Cybersecurity, and this includes among other things: requirements for treatment basis and for data minimisation. The difference is that the Centre is not subject to the obligation to provide information, the right of access and the right to object under the Personal Data Act. I believe that the system is appropriate and experience has shown that the system represents a good balance between, on the one hand, consideration of the specific characteristics of the centre and, on the other hand, consideration of personal data protection. It has also emerged from the debate that the aim of the draft law is to implement the necessary impact changes and, as far as possible, to continue the current legal position. This is due to the fact that the current regulation of the Centre for Cybersecurity processing of personal data has found an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of the particularities of the Centre's activities and, on the other hand, the need to ensure a high level of protection in relation to the processing of personal data. I think I can say that the supervision of the FE and the Cybersecurity Centre is in many ways more extensive than the supervision of civil authorities that also process data. You should remember that there is supervision of FE, which even has employees in FE, who have access to the data systems, to the IT systems, to the files, and who carry out checks on an ongoing basis, and that is more than can be said to apply in other areas. So exactly in relation to this insight and supervision, I think it is actually necessary to say that it is a very, very intense supervision that is here. Then you can ask about the location. The reason why the location in FE, Defence Intelligence, is the right one is that the cyber attacks that come on critical infrastructure do not come from Denmark, they come from abroad, they come from the big countries, and it is precisely the task of foreign intelligence to protect Denmark from such attacks. That is why, in my view, it is absolutely crucial that the Cybersecurity Centre should be located in the FE, because then there will be information about attacks which other countries have also experienced and which the intelligence services share with each other. It is therefore the case in the real world that intelligence services do not share knowledge with civil institutions, and therefore it is a great advantage that we have chosen this construction in Denmark or let me say that the previous government has chosen this construction in Denmark. I know that something similar has been carried out in England, because the construction is right. The cyber attacks that are coming do not come from Nykøbing Falster, but they come from all sorts of other places in this world that have experts, and that is why I think the construction we have chosen here is just the right one. I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made and I will look forward to the discussion that will take place on the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132534	Thank you. That discussion is already going to be a small corner of now. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132538	Thank you. After all, I fully agree with the Minister for Defence as regards the level and extent of the threat and that there is every reason to ensure international cooperation. But my question to the Minister for Defence is just: does the Minister for Defence not agree that the data protection regulation, which is to be implemented in Danish law through the Danish Data Protection Act by 25 May, introduces a new and higher level of protection of citizens' data, that is to say, that which will be exempted in the Center for Cybersecurity, and that one can imagine that citizens' data is therefore data from citizens who are not hackers or do hacker attacks can be shared with foreign powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132630	What is the purpose of Center for Cybersecurity is not to sit and look through personal data. They must register when attacks are being made from outside on infrastructure or on private companies or whatever it may be, and they must also be able to go in and mitigate attacks. They must be able to advise companies, etc. That's what's at the heart of it. Last summer there was a discussion in the field of health about whether the intelligence services were going to sit and look into medical records. I can reassure Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that there is nothing less of an interest in the intelligence service than Pedersen's intestinal problems. What interests the intelligence service is the attacks that come on our infrastructure, and that is why I think it has been shot at something when you start saying that we have a burning desire to sit and pry in people's medical records. We have an interest in protecting the health sector, the energy sector, the financial sector and the transport sector, because it is vital for Denmark, and there is the task of the Cybersecurity Centre to detect the attacks and combat the attacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132759	With all due respect, Minister, that's not what I said either. However, in a community governed by the law, legislation is being drawn up that limits how particularly powerful authorities can act within the framework of the law. And it's not about whether they have or don't have an interest in people's bowel problems or an interest in person-sensitive information. It is clearly some very, very skilled and conscientious people who work in the Center for Cybersecurity, but one can say that about so many parts of Danish society. That is why we are still making legislation that clearly limits the possibilities of using data and sharing data. There was my original question just as to whether the Minister does not agree that the new EU data protection regulation precisely sets a higher level with a fundamental principle that citizens' data should be protected as much as possible and that what exactly is the mandate should be defined, for example. for Cybersecurity Center.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132856	I'm just trying to point out that what is Center for Cybersecurity's task is to protect our systems from hacker attacks, and that's what's kind of the essence of it. When I hear the Left debating here today, it is as if the Centre for Cybersecurity is interested in all kinds of personal data that may be in different places. They don't care about that at all. They are interested in stopping attacks on critical infrastructure in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132927	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315132928	Well, one of the things I think is absolutely crucial here is that we put the structure of the Cybersecurity Centre in a sensible and appropriate way, and I simply do not think we have done that at this stage when we have placed it under the Secret Service of Defence. I wonder why the Secretary of Defense can be so sloppy when he says that this is the right way when we have other countries, such as the United States. Norway, Finland, France, the Netherlands, who are actually doing this in a completely different way; they have put it as civil authorities and, by the way, score somewhat higher than Denmark in terms of cybersecurity. It was more of a consideration that I think it's strange. However, as I hear the Minister for Defence talking about the law we are discussing today, it also provides a lower level of protection compared to, for example, the law we are discussing today. the right of access, etc.; in terms of being able to supervise the center's areas, compared to just rolling out what to say, the personal data law that we also treat in parallel, that is, simply rolling it out fully over the center's work. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133041	Not in my opinion, because what is crucial here is that we have oversight of the intelligence service in this area. So we have an independent institution here in Denmark with a national judge in charge who can go in and control these things. They also have employees in the intelligence service who can transfer to an employee and access the relevant employee's IT and check what is being processed there. So what I was trying to say was that there is in fact much more intensive supervision in this area than there really are in all other areas. That's why I think the location is the right one. We gain access to information about what is happening, from other intelligence services; we can tell others ourselves when we detect an attack, that they need to pay attention, etc. And there I just want to say that in the real world, it is not the case that intelligence services go around sharing their knowledge with all sorts of other authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133149	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133151	In the real world, I think there are a lot of things going on in the intelligence services that we do not really know anything about. And that is also one of the problems here. Basically, I do not think that there is any reason why the Centre for Cybersecurity or the authority that is responsible for our very, very crucial infrastructure security should be concealed more than is necessary. That authority is going to get more and more roles in the future, and it is going to have more and more data. That is why I would like to hear the Minister for Defence: is it not correct to understand that this supervision cannot simply access all the information it wants? You can only see what is being said... what can be put forward. There are only a few parts in which they can gain insight. Nor does supervision have the opportunity, like going out openly with the information they then get, because much of it needs to be discussed in a closed room.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133245	Now, Mrs Flyvholm, listen to this: an annual report is published, and Mrs Flyvholm often refers in debates to it if errors have been made in the intelligence service; she refers to the annual printed report which is being sent out, where supervision publishes the cases where there have been some errors. It is the case that in all major systems mistakes are made. What matters is that when mistakes are made, they are corrected. So, I think it is a little hypocritical when Mrs Flyvholm keeps talking about the fact that there is nothing when Mrs Flyvholm herself makes public reference to the errors made in the annual monitoring report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133327	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133329	I think it is rather a pity that the Minister is so nonchalant that, of course, they do not want to look into different patient records about various bowel diseases in the Center for Cybersecurity. This is another question we are raising here; it is the question of legal certainty for the individual citizen. This is therefore a matter of principle, and that is what we are asking the Minister to do. There is something I would really like an answer to. The Minister said that we are fully covered in relation to the level of the Personal Data Act and that it is very good what the Minister wants us to adopt here, but is it not true that the Minister can at any time say which parts should be covered by the Personal Data Act and which should not, so that it is up to the minister in office to decide these things at any time?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133422	It is not the case that I can restrict the legislation; there is no such authorization. But I would like to say to Rasmus Nordqvist that I do not understand at all the distinction between legal certainty and entering a medical file. That is actually what I see as legal certainty: that others cannot go in and see people's medical records. So I actually think we should try to read the annual reports of supervision and see how thoroughly this is actually being supervised. I think it can be said that this is more thorough supervision than there is in the Ministry of Transport, in the Ministry of Industry, in the Ministry of Health; there is no independent supervisory authority that is constantly in control.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133519	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133520	But can the Minister not explain to me what it means that the Minister for Defence can decide that chapters 8-10 of the Personal Data Act apply in whole or in part to the Centre for Cybersecurity, i.e. this part about the Minister being able to decide? For then the Minister will be able to decide that it will not apply. So what is meant by that paragraph, if it is not that the minister who is sitting at any time can go in and decide whether or not the Personal Data Act, that is, the legal certainty of citizens in relation to their data, covers this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133554	I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that I have just explained what the status is and what it is that you cannot do under the legislation here. There is no obligation to provide information, a right of access and a right of objection for the Cyber Security Centre. And everyone can tell themselves that, when it has something to do with intelligence services, when it has something to do with attacks coming from abroad, you probably cannot let it be subject to the ordinary rules of access so that you can search and know things. Because what is alpha and omega in such a job is that you don't reveal where you get the information and what methods you have to expose these attacks. So it's the natural thing that comes from a secret service. But I would like to repeat again that there is intensive supervision in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133656	With that, we thank the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133711	The negotiations have been opened and we will start with Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315133729	Thank you for that, President. In the social democracy we basically think it is a good idea to have stricter supervision of free schools and private schools. Indeed, we do not want to support schools that impede integration or work against Danish values such as freedom, folk rule and gender equality, and that is why we support the proposal, Bill No. L 178. Overall, the draft law contains two parts. A new approval procedure for the creation of new schools and a number of initiatives to strengthen the existing state supervision of free primary schools. In our view, it is both right and proper that we should have more control over the free schools and private schools that are emerging, and that is why we are also pleased that new schools that are shooting up have to go through an enhanced approval procedure. In the procedure, it has to include, among other things: is assessed whether the school is expected to support its activities in order to meet the demand for freedom and public governance, and the circle behind the school must be examined to ensure that it cannot be expected to influence the school's work in a direction that is not in line with these requirements. At the same time, supervision of free schools and private schools is strengthened through a number of initiatives. We particularly welcome the ban on receiving anonymous donations of more than DKK 20,000, so that we can ensure that schools are independent of, for example, non-democratic organisations or countries. In addition, a whistleblower scheme is established which allows anyone to inform the Ministry of Education if there is a suspicion that a school does not comply with the law or if one is witnessing other worrying conditions. In addition, it will be possible to deny a school the state subsidy without the school being under enhanced supervision. These are all very sensible measures, but it is important to stress that there are limits to how many times we can tighten up the supervision of all the free schools and all the private schools, because the truth is that the vast majority of schools work well and without problems. That is why we also preferred to see the treatment of symptoms dropped and instead tackled the root of the nettle, namely that there are still far too many free schools which are hampering integration and which will continue to do so, almost no matter how much we tighten the rules. Social democracy has proposed creating a completely new subsidy system for free schools and private schools so that we no longer support Muslim free schools which do not give pupils a chance to integrate. This requires a radical change in the way in which we set up the system and a new criterion for not receiving public support for private schools, where more than half of the pupils are bilingual. It is also the case that we are going to parallel social negotiations, and in this context we also think it is good to have a distribution of pupils, but unfortunately the government has just said that it should only be in the institutional and secondary fields. We think it would be good for the Minister to call for negotiations on the grant to the free schools and private schools so that we can put an end to this once and for all in the schools that are hampering integration. However, that does not change the fact that we are dealing today with a proposal that we support. I have had such a small card in my hand, in which I must say that the Radical Left is also voting in favour of L 178.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134049	Thank you. And there was a request for a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134054	I note the rapporteur's observations on the proposal for a maximum of 50%. bilingual in free schools. Why is it that the Social Democrats have not then made a proposal that could be dealt with in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134117	I do not think it is unknown to anyone that we have made a proposal that we think that 30%. is the maximum in both the free and private schools, but in fact also in the primary schools. It is in our game of ghetto, which we have put forward on the part of the Social Democratic Party. In fact, there are a lot of people in this country who have noticed, so if the Danish People's Party has not done so, there is no doubt that then you can at least get up to my office and get that proposal to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134145	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134147	I am thinking of the proposal for a maximum of 50%. bilingual in free schools, as Social Democracy has proposed in the media, but on which we have not yet seen a political proposal. It is in fact the case that it is the Danish People's Party that has to put it forward, because the Social Democracy has not been able to find out of it, even though I even called a meeting about it. So why is it that it has not been put in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134211	We have a very clear position on how many students must be in a school class to the maximum. It must reflect Danish society. It comes down to the Chamber and then we can discuss it there. Now the Danish People's Party has put it forward and we will discuss it next week or next week again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134227	In doing so, we would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. And the next in line is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134243	Thank you, President. Today is a good day for us to take a position on this bill. This is the second stage after the first stage, which was after all in 2016, when the Danish People's Party was supported by the then Minister of Education, Ellen Trane Nørby, to strengthen the supervision of free schools. And it was pretty good, and it was also a joy for us to finally get responsive to it. Because under the former Socialist-led government nothing happened. It was completely rejected that there were problems with Muslim free schools. I, together with Mrs Merete Riisager, who was the only citizen who showed interest in the case and who today is the Minister for Education, had a question debate in the Chamber about this very thing. And the Social Democrats refused that there were any problems at all. Then we, Mrs Merete Riisager and I, tried to have a hearing on Muslim free schools, and it was also completely rejected by the then chairman of the committee, Mr. Orla Sea. In addition, all other rapporteurs, including the bourgeois ones, thought that there were no problems, although there was plenty of documentation in both books and articles and other things. So it is of course very interesting for us to see the social democracy act in these years, and we are of course pleased that they have come to the realization that we have to do something for the supervision of the free schools. The second stage, which we are discussing today, is only another stage, and, as far as we are concerned, we obviously need to go further. What is good about this proposal is that in future you will have to be approved in order to be able to be set up as a free school. In the past, you just had to report it, and that's not gonna work. And you have to keep to certain things. This is especially the fact that the circle is being looked at in the seams. And then there will also be transparency regarding the economy and economic independence. After all, we have seen that a number of free schools have been subject to extreme Muslim organisations, and that just cannot be done. We are also pleased that, if this is adopted, the Ministry will be able to take the grant from a free school in future without prior supervision, and we are so pleased that we can now make unannounced visits and that observers will be deployed. There will be control of school rentals of buildings, and then we will also look at anonymous donations over 20,000 kroner, which will be banned. For us that is not enough, and we have simply proposed banning donations from abroad, because if you take the grants from free schools, they can obtain support from abroad, and therefore also money from extreme Saudi Muslim organisations to run free school in Denmark. There is nothing to stop them today. I have not really been able to get support for it in the Social Democracy, but perhaps they can change their attitude here in the future too. There will also be a tattletale scheme, which is what modern Danish calls a whistleblower scheme. That's a good thing. We have received many inquiries which have drawn attention to all these problems. Finally, I would just like to say that the Social Democrats have not made their proposal in this Chamber that there must be a maximum of 50 per cent. bilingual in Muslim free schools, so that government grants can be obtained even though I have held meetings with them. That is why my speech is particularly directed at the Social Democracy, which says all the right things in the media, but when it comes to negotiations and action in the Chamber, it lags behind. And that is why, in a few weeks' time, we will be putting forward the Social Democrats' proposal that free schools with a maximum of 50%. bilinguals can get state subsidies, down into the hall. And, of course, we hope that the Social Democrats will vote in favour. I have not really been able to find out what the rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind, thinks about her party's own proposal, which the Danish People's Party therefore puts forward. But something has to be done; this is the second stage, and for us there will also be a third stage. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134741	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There is a question from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134744	Oh, my God, that was quite a jamming speech! Can the rapporteur for education confirm that we, the Social Democratic Party, have asked in parallel social negotiations to negotiate Muslim free schools and these things, in other words when we are going to have the whole process of negotiation on parallel societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134813	I am not quoting from negotiations. But if the Social Democrats want us to take it up now, we can do it. I have noticed that the Social Democrats in these negotiations are very hesitant. There are, in fact, a number of good proposals in the field of education which we should be able to accept immediately after hearing the statements that have been made in the media. What I'm just saying is that the Social Democrats say all the right things in the media. I also expect action to follow. It is simply too bad that the Danish People's Party should put a motion for a resolution on the Social Democratic Party's own proposal for a maximum of 50%. bilingual in a free school, although I have met with the Social Democratic Party that we do it together. And that is what I am a little sorry about; there is just too little happening, I would say to the Social Democrats. And sometimes I can't really figure out what line there is, because there's one line from mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, there's another line from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, there's a third from Mrs. Annette Lind. We want to work with the Social Democratic Party on this, but you need to get a little better at taking action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134920	Then we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. No? I'm sorry! Annette Lind just gets the chance again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315134929	This is how I think it is because the Danish People's Party is sorry that they did not get the idea themselves. It is the case that we have actually presented a very, very clear and clear proposal, which very, very many Danes support. Then I would like to hear the rapporteur from DF: it is true that in these negotiations the government would like to make some allocations in the field of integration, and they would like to do so in the field of upper secondary education too, but Muslim free schools and the distribution in the field of primary education are not included at all, so we have presented this many times in the negotiations. So I would like to ask the Danish People's Party: does the Danish People's Party agree that a distribution should also be made in the primary and primary schools, where Muslim free schools are also included, in these negotiations, or are they just empty words?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135023	Now this bill is about Muslim free schools. We are not in favour of the compulsory distribution and the compulsory distribution of pupils. We have never done so either in the field of primary school or in the field of free school. What is our intention is to slow down the growth of Muslim free schools. We do that in part with this amendment proposal. We're not gonna solve all the problems. We will make it harder to set up Muslim free schools, there is no doubt about that, and we will also keep a better eye on them, thanks to among others. The Minister of Education was not thanks to the Social Democratic Party. I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135102	Then we go to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135105	Thank you. I'm also saying, "Oh, my God! For this has become a battleground, but not for what we actually stand for here: the legislative proposal we are going to be dealing with. This free school area is apparently a battleground for Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. Maybe you should take that fight somewhere else. That's one thing. But now the rapporteur himself says that the draft law we are discussing here today is about making it harder to set up Muslim free schools. That is not what I read in the text of the bill. I have read that this is a draft law which deals with a number of points which need to strengthen the supervision of all Danish free schools. Is that not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135152	The legal changes are so arranged that they apply to everyone, but where there have been the biggest problems, they have been in Muslim free schools. They have not been able to comply with the freedom and folk rule requirement; the circle of people has been really problematic; there has been a lack of transparency regarding the economy and independence of these Muslim free schools. So, even if it is not there, it is quite clear that they and the problems that have arisen from which the legislative proposal arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135221	I don't remember the exact numbers, but it's something about the fact that out of 27 or 29 Muslim free schools we have in Denmark, there are 7 or 9 under enhanced supervision. But it is true that more people are under increased supervision if you look at the total number of free schools in Denmark. This also means that there are a number of Muslim free schools which are not under enhanced supervision and which, as such, carry out the task that they should do in relation to the constitution and the law of free school. However, I would like to ask whether it is the rapporteur's view that free schools such as those which comply with the rules should also be restricted or closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135308	In the Danish People's Party we would prefer that there were no Muslim free schools. As far as I remember, and there the minister must just correct or inform us • is about half of the Muslim free schools under some form of supervision. We've already closed two, and maybe a third is on the way. The Turkish free schools under the DIKEV Foundation, which are supervised, are also part of it. So there are massive problems, and I simply do not understand that the alternative cannot see how much Muslim free schools constitute of the problem of free schools in general. It's really mysterious that you can't see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135351	Then we'll hear Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135354	Thanks for the speech. I was listening a little bit to the answers given by the rapporteur to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and then I wanted to ask: why would the DF support a proposal in the field of free school, which is about saying that there is a maximum. Must be 50 percent. With other ethnic origins, this is the proposal that DF puts forward but does not support the same objective in the area of primary education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135426	We are not in favour of forced distribution in the Danish People's Party, and I shall tell you why. Now I live in a ghetto area where there have been three school districts and three schools in the past. Now there are two school districts and two schools, although there is an increasing number of children. What does that mean? Yes, it is because parents use the free choice of school to send their children to the secondary schools, which then have about 30-35 per cent. bilingual students. And why do they do that? Yes, it is because parents want their children to receive Danish schooling. So they use the free choice of school to voluntarily spread. And if we go in with those desk exercises and force students on the basis of numbers, we get exactly the opposite. That's the background.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135518	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135519	But there is also the compulsory distribution of pupils who now attend free schools, where the proportion of pupils with other ethnic origins is 100 per cent. Personally, I also think it is a problem for integration that there are such schools. I mean, I can see the challenges in that too. I just don't understand the logic of the Danish People's Party. When it comes to free schools, you want to set a ceiling of 50 per cent. for the proportion of pupils with other ethnic origins, and one would like to impose them by law, but when it comes to the primary school area, where we have many more schools and where this is a problem and where we have to solve this integration, one will not do so. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135554	After all, it is the Social Democrats' proposal that we bring down to the Chamber because they cannot find out for themselves. This isn't a forcibly spread. After all, no one is forcing parents to send their children to a free school. All we're saying is that they won't get a government grant. But that is the social democracy's solution to a problem. We have had another proposal in the Chamber to which the Social Democrats voted against, and we will continue to press both this government and the future government to constantly tighten up the free school law so that in the end we do not have any more Muslim free schools in this country. That is our goal, and we are not hiding it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135631	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. The next is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315135642	Thank you. Today we are dealing first with L 178, which will strengthen the supervision of free schools. And then I guess there's some people sitting out there at the screens thinking, "Haven't you just done it, that is, tighten up supervision?" There we have to say: yes, as late as December 2016, we actually made legislative changes to strengthen the supervision of free and private schools. But it has also turned out that it has, unfortunately, required more. Unfortunately, it has become apparent that freedom has been abused in free primary schools. It has been shown that a few schools have worked against the Danish democratic values, and the draft law here particularly introduces a tightening of the approval procedure. Because it is the case today that only if you start a new free school will you announce, and with the bill here there will instead be an approval before you can start a new free school. I would also like to stress here in my rapporteur's speech that we are talking about the few. The vast majority of free and private schools are actually doing a fantastic job; they are well-functioning, they make sure to dress our children and our young people well to participate actively in a democratic society. The free primary schools actually contribute to a diverse but also varied educational provision. And free schools contribute to parents and children being free to choose the school best suited to their children. The freedom of free elections is very much the preserve of the Left. That is why it is important that we continue to protect the free primary schools, but we would also like to emphasise here that we do not accept that the few stray vessels which abuse the freedom of running a free and private school are allowed to get through. We cannot accept the teaching of anti-democratic thinking in certain schools and we cannot accept the schools associated with radicalisation, or associations or individuals who welcome radicalisation, and that is what the draft law here hopes will put an end to. So, yes, with the bill here, you could say that there we act again. And I also need to stress that in other areas, in relation to being approved as a school, it is already in place. That is why we may also be wondering why it has not been in place, perhaps even years ago, even in the field of open school. I'm thinking, among other things. That if you're going to start a post-school school, you've always had to have approval for many, many years, so that you could start a new post-school. All in all, I would like to say that I am very pleased with this proposal. I think that in this way we are actually going to put an end to, hopefully, some stingy vessels that would otherwise be allowed to develop. So the Left backs this proposal, and I also promised to send a message from the Conservatives saying that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140006	Thank you very much. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140009	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech, in which the rapporteur also focuses on the many values of free schools. I would like to hear a little bit about what could be done more than what is here. In fact, I think it was in connection with the whole discussion about bullying that we decided long ago that the public schools should make well-being measurements to ensure that the students thrive and that we should do everything we can in here from Christiansborg to help them thrive. In fact, in the original draft of the proposal for the then law on bullying there was that free schools and private schools should also have well-being surveys, but then it was taken out when the ministerial post went from a Left Minister to a Liberal Alliance minister. I would like to hear: is it really the position of the Left that free schools and private schools should also carry out well-being surveys so that we can ensure that children thrive and that people work with well-being?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140104	I would say that I actually think it would be quite natural that free schools also focus on the well-being of pupils. So, as the rapporteur of the Left, I do not wish to deny that it could be at stake at some point. It is in connection with the free schools that I think the balancing approach lies; they must also be allowed to be free, and there are also certain limits to what we should interfere with from Christiansborg. Conversely, I would also like to say that I sometimes receive inquiries from parents of pupils who go to free schools or have chosen a free school, and what they want is that perhaps the focus on the well-being of pupils has also increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140145	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140150	Thank you. I think that was a nice constructive response and I can expect nothing more or less than such a positive expression from a government party. So I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140202	Let's move on. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140206	Contrary to the Social Democrat rapporteur, it seems that the rapporteur of the Left recognizes that you should have listened to me and Mrs Merete Riisager in the previous assembly, where the Social Democracy sat in the Ministry of Education. I understand that the Left is really sorry that they did not listen to the calls to tighten up the legislation so that we can keep a better eye on, among other things. Muslim free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140237	I would like to start by stressing that I always listen. But I would also like to say that this does not mean that I will be acting tomorrow. I also think that we here from Christiansborg have an obligation to listen to several different and get input from several different places before we make decisions. In fact, I also think it is important that the decisions we take here at Christiansborg have a quality and that they are also long-lasting. Even though Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen may have been a little impatient in this area, at least I have seen it as an obligation that we also think carefully about, of course, before we make legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140318	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140322	I am glad that the rapporteur would like to listen. It's always good. But Mrs Merete Riisager and I tried to get a hearing on Muslim free schools on the feet with all the actors in the industry so that we could learn more. Unfortunately, the Left would not be a part of that. Has this decision been regretted today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140347	Oh, we're back in history. At least that was before I sat as rapporteur in this area. However, I can recall that there was something about a proposal for a hearing at the time. I don't want to stand here and say that I regret it. It is, of course, the case that there is a constant development in society, and we also have a responsibility to keep up with developments. I would say that I believe that, if Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen had proposed it a few months ago, would have liked to have supported it. However, I cannot comment on what the rapporteur on the Left had at that time for reasons to say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140419	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and move on to Mr Seligman's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315140427	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, it is often the case that we are dealing with the rules for running free primary schools, and it is relatively recently that we last dealt with a tightening of the rules. We in the Enhedslist believe that the proposal that is before us actually contains several excellent adjustments to the legislation, but at the same time there are also several proposals for amendments which we consider to be extremely problematic. We think it is good that the proposal envisages greater openness in the economy. We think it is good to remove the possibility of anonymous donations of more than DKK 20,000, and we agree that some sort of whistleblower scheme should be introduced in the area of • we can support that. On the other hand, we believe that there are considerable problems in relation to the stricter conditions for the creation of new schools, and we believe that there are problems in relation to the amended provisions on the possibility of depriving schools of their subsidies. If we start with the stricter conditions for setting up, the proposal is formulated in a way that creates a very unclear legal position for those who want to set up a new free school. I do not think anyone in this Chamber would challenge the fact that those who want to run schools for public funds must, of course, comply with the law. Nor do we in the Enhedslist believe that it is, as such, a problem to establish some kind of authorisation system. The rapporteur of the Left has just mentioned that it already exists in the area of post-school education. However, we believe that the specific proposal for a system of approval is even extremely problematic. We believe that the basis for approval is too unclear, and we find it difficult to see how the Minister of Education, with the proposed changes, should be able to take care of it, and now I quote: "It is documented that it can be expected that the new school will fulfil the freedom and the popular rule requirement." I mean, what's it like to document expectations now? It is clear that we can demand an undertaking to comply with the law when you want to run school, but it is by its very nature difficult to prove that you also intend to comply with the obligation. I do not think that the comments on the draft law provide satisfactory answers as to how this could be done. It is true that the comments state that there must be significant factors which have a not insignificant weight, but what it is then appears very loose and very unclear. However, the attempt is being made to exemplify what might be essential, but we do find it extremely problematic with the description that lies, that if there is a board member or an employee who has previously been associated with a free primary school, where there are obligations in relation to freedom and the folk government requirement, then that must be a major reason why you cannot get approval of your school. In other words, the fact that there is an employee at a school who has previously been to a school who was given a post must mean that you cannot get public support for running a free school. I would say that we simply do not think that the proposal contains the necessary legal certainty and that it offers the possibility of rejecting the approval of schools solely on the basis of their opinions and values. And we note that this is a view which is also expressed very clearly by the Free School Teachers' Association. We think that the comments made by the Christian free schools make it very clear that we have a serious problem here. Similarly, we believe that the proposal for new provisions on the withdrawal procedure is problematic. Here too there is no reason to discuss whether schools should comply with the law, so let us not waste time on it, but we think it is incredibly far-reaching that a school grant could be removed without having previously placed the school under tighter supervision. Because what happens if you stop the grant to the school? Well, then it happens that you de facto shut it down. If you are to run a school without a public grant, it is clear that it will come to a halt immediately, and this will have very major consequences both for the pupils and for the teachers. This may be necessary; we are not opposed to the closure of free schools which do not comply with the law, but we are very concerned if it does not take place on a proper legal basis. Then we risk hitting students and employees at the free schools unintentionally, or perhaps even deliberately. All in all, I would say that there are elements that we think are sensible. One can of course consider whether we should split up the proposal if there is broad agreement on the proposal for a whistleblower scheme and openness on the financial subsidies. However, the part dealing with the approval and withdrawal of subsidies seems to us to represent an incredibly dubious legal state, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141012	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mr President. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141017	Thank you. I had hoped that Enhedslisten would vote for this, but that will not happen. I have two questions. One is that Enhedslisten was also critical of the last law we made, where we strengthened supervision. Similarly, the Enhedslisten was last time critical of something and positive about something else. I took note of that. But how does Enhedslisten actually feel about that law from the last time? Has one been confirmed in his concern, or has it actually gone well? Because I actually think that what we did seems to have been an effective tool. I'd like to know what Enhedslisten thinks about it. The second is about this emergency button, where you can take the grant from private schools and free schools immediately, if you are really worried it is STUK who can do it. Does the Enhedslisten really believe that if there is a supervision that considers that a state of affairs in a school is so serious that one should close the school immediately, then one should nevertheless accept that the students meet in school for up to 3 months with such conditions, because that is what can happen today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141119	In my view, the Minister will have the power to do something about the latter already with the legislation in place, but we can try to clarify that in the committee work. I have no basis for assessing whether the tightening has had any beneficial effect. On the other hand, it has been my experience that the sharpenings that have taken place have had a very negative effect and have had free schools addressed in a very unpleasant way and have helped to create a suspicion of the way in which free schools are run. So I will not rule out that there may be some positive effects of it. I have not seen it documented anywhere; I think, first of all, that it has been problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141159	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141202	Thank you. It may be that we look at it differently. In fact, I believe that strengthening supervision has been a very good thing and that it has also helped to focus on some of the schools that are doing really bad and that are throwing a bad light on all the many schools that are doing good. Just a brief question: When the rapporteur looks at the good things that lie here • the ban on anonymous donations, whistleblower arrangements and such things that SF and Enhedslisten usually fight for in other contexts • does the Enhedslisten not assess that the good things, i.e. also more unannounced visits, still weigh heavier than the few small things that Enhedslisten believes are in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141246	We do not think that we can act with legal certainty. In other words, because there is a sensible proposal for a whistleblower scheme, we do not think it can be said that it is therefore not so important that there is legal certainty in relation to approving and closing schools. That doesn't make any sense. You can't weigh that up against each other. Therefore, it may be that the SF will help to consider whether we can divide this proposal up, so that exactly the things we agree on there is no reason why we are not trying to reach agreement on them. We are in one proposal, whereas the things in which we have openly different assessments, in other words in terms of legal certainty, are in another proposal, and we therefore share our views when we have to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141319	Thank you. The next one is sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141325	I am interested in the development of parties, and the Enhedslisten agreed with everyone else, with the exception of Mrs Merete Riisager and the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, not to agree to a hearing on Muslim free schools, nor did it support the text of the resolution during the question debate, and in general it was not felt that supervision should be strengthened. Now, Enhedslisten says yes to parts of the law amendment that we are discussing today, so what has brought Enhedslisten to that conclusion? What has happened in this development? Is there anything that has been noticed in the last 2, 3, 4 years that has done so much movement? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141422	Now I did not have the pleasure of being in the Folketing 3-4 years ago, so I cannot go into it in detail, but my immediate impression is that this is not the way the rapporteur says. It is very good to have openness about financial subsidies, not only for free schools, but also in other contexts, and that is a view that we have here in the Folketing in general. It is also quite generally our view that whistleblower schemes make sense in many places in our society. So it is not my impression that there has been any movement on our part here, but I think perhaps more that others have lifted some of the good ideas we have presented in other contexts into the open school area, and therefore I also say that there are good ideas, not least if they are inspired by us, there is no reason not to support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141508	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141511	So that means that the things that have been uncovered in connection with inter alia. Muslim free schools, haven't had any significant influence on Enhedslisten's policy? Some of these things are jihad material, extreme organisations that support free schools, lack of control over the economy, attempts to radicalise, etc. etc, and those things have had no effect at all on Enhedslisten's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141546	I can answer that precisely: no, it has not. We are in favour of freedom and popular rule, we are in favour of freedom of spirit in our schools and our educational system, and we have always had that view, so that is not new. In this way, we have not changed our attitude at all in our view of Muslim schools. Nor have we had the view that schools which did not comply with the law should continue to receive subsidies. There is nothing new in our position in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141615	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. The next line is Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141626	Thank you. I have to say, unfortunately, that I am only here on a stand-by basis, because the usual rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl, unfortunately has become ill. But in the Liberal Alliance, free and private schools have a very special place. They ensure that Danish families have the freedom to choose the very school that best meets the needs of their children. Free and private primary schools are also an important part of the Danish education system. One can say to some extent that they represent some very special Danish values, namely that we are a society that is largely based on freedom, freeness and trust. But when some schools then choose to break the confidence that we, as a society, have in their ability to manage the great responsibility that we have entrusted to them, then we, as politicians, will also have to respond. Although it may be difficult for a liberal like myself to tighten up the supervision of free and private schools, unfortunately it is only necessary for us to ensure in the future that Danish families have as much freedom as possible to organise their everyday life. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141753	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315141803	Thank you. I will start by saying that there are several elements of this bill that the alternative supports. We support the fact that the Ministry can participate as an observer at inter alia. meetings of the Board of Directors. We support the element that there should be a maximum of DKK 20,000. On anonymous donations we actually think it should be 5,000 DKK.; that is what we have written in our democracy package. However, we clearly support that element of the draft law. And we also very much support the whistleblower scheme. That also means that there are elements that we do not support, and I will come to them now. But that's why we're also going to try to split this bill, like what Enhedslisten mentioned. We will take this into account in committee because it would be a pity that we could not stand together as a united Parliament on the elements we all support. But, of course, we also have some challenges with a few of the elements. One is, it might be said, the lack of detail in relation to what is included in the principles of the approval system. We are not at all opposed to a system of approval for setting up a free school, which we support in principle. However, there are huge amounts of arbitrary wording, vague wording in the draft law, which creates uncertainty as to what exactly will be taken into account when applying for approval. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj has mentioned some of them. These were some of the same ones that I pointed out, for example. the fact that you have to prove that a school can be expected to comply with the freedom and the people's rule requirement. How do you document that you will be expected to do so? And then there are a number of references to, or it is stated in the bill in several places, that it may be so and so, it may also be so and so. That means, of course, that it must be implied that it could also be something quite third or fourth or tenth, and what is it? So it is not really because we do not support the idea of approval. We do. But we think it is arbitrary what will be the basis, and that worries us about the legal certainty that we think we should have when we want to start a free school. We therefore have no reason whatsoever to believe that the current minister and the current ministry would not be a good representative of what criteria or what would be the basis for setting up a free school. But what about the day there is another Minister of Education from another party? What about the day someone from the Danish People's Party sits? What are the criteria used? What about the day that sits one from the Alternative or Enhedslisten? What are the criteria that will be applied? So it is just to say: if you could spell out some more specific criteria and conditions for setting up a free school and having them included in an approval system, it is something quite different. Then we think it's really interesting to look at. The second issue with which we have challenges is the element of the enhanced supervision that one must be able to deprive a school of its basis of existence or the possibility of being a free primary school without prior enhanced supervision. This is again a problem in terms of legal certainty. For what are some of the elements that will be taken into account when, without having had stricter supervision, the subsidy is taken away? What is argued for in the draft law is the length of supervision that it may take up to 3 months to carry out enhanced supervision. If this is a problem, one might consider putting more resources into supervision, so that the task might be carried out more quickly. If it is only a problem of time that it takes too long today, why not try to speed up that process, but ensure that all the free schools placed under enhanced supervision receive the same treatment and come through the same professional criteria as to whether or not they should have withdrawn their grants? If it were defined that way, we would actually want to take a look at it. So it was just to point out that there are a lot of good elements in this that we support. We hope that there will be support to be able to split up the legislative proposal, and we will certainly also table some amendments to the elements that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142237	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142246	You can get a little flashback for the last time we tightened the supervision. We're not tightening up supervision for fun. We are tightening it up because we care about free schools because we think that free schools and private schools have a value for Denmark. Since they were created, free schools and private schools have served as educational alternatives to the primary school we know. It can, for example, be done. be if there is a free school that does not think it is the coolest in the world with ten national tests; then one could do a character-free or a test-free school. Or if you want to do a school that I might not think was the best, that is, with twice as many tests as you have in the public schools, you can do it too. The principle is that you can build some schools that use a different pedagogy or that have a different basis of value as long as it respects freedom and popular rule. It is good for Denmark that we have it, and it is also quite unique. There are more and more children going to these free schools and private schools. We must ensure that these children are well and that they thrive. We must ensure that they are not indoctrinated; we must ensure that what they learn is in line with what is happening in primary school. That's why I've already asked as a council member before I was elected to the Folketing why the supervision of these schools is so weak. When so many kids go to these schools, why aren't we sharp enough on what's going on out there? It is not, of course, about the fact that we do not trust the free school teachers who are out there or that we do not trust the school board members. It's just that when you spend so much money on something where our kids go, there must of course also be strong supervision. That's why I was really happy when you tightened the supervision last time. I think the last year has shown that it was necessary. There are several schools that have been closed down. There are several schools that have been placed under enhanced supervision. The tools that we have provided, the more money for more unannounced visits have worked. Now it is time to evaluate it and see if there is anything more we can do, and that is there. That's why we're adopting this bill today. We say that there must be stricter requirements on the criteria we set in order to become a free school. We are making an emergency button, not an emergency button, but an emergency button, so if a free school or a private school does not meet the freedom and public government requirement to such an extent that the Ministry considers that it must be closed immediately and that the pupils are given a different offer, yes, of course you can. This is similar to if a child is treated terribly badly at home and you have to remove the child immediately. Then you do it because you take care of the baby. We're saying we're gonna ban anonymous donations over $20,000. We want a whistleblower system. We have fought for this in the municipalities, I think, another victory. And there will be even more unannounced visits so that we can strengthen supervision. All in all, this will mean that we can become even sharper in finding private schools and free schools that do not treat children properly, which do not fulfil their responsibilities, so that the schools that comply with the law can have peace to run the good school that they want to run. I don't think we're in the finish line. I think there's more to be done. I find it strange that free schools and private schools, which are paid by the Danish state, can receive large donations from abroad. I therefore agree that, as a starting point, it should be said that free schools and private schools should not have money from abroad. They are financed by the Danish state. Why, then, should they be supported by funds from outside? Then you can make a hole, like... states that if they are looking for a special development project in the European Union, or whatever, there must be room for it. But as a starting point it must be the case that schools funded by the Danish state should not be financed by funds abroad that we do not know about. I think that is a new step. I think we should get even better track of the supervisors that are in relation to the school. I think we should have even better control of the censorship, i.e. those who keep an eye on how the exams are going. But we have also agreed in the circle that these are things we will come back to. So I'll look forward to it. Then I'll just add a few words to this about Muslim free schools. I believe that when we strengthen supervision, we do so to keep an eye on the fact that our children are well in all schools, not just in the Muslims. But the other way round, we must not be blind to what has happened. A bell-clear investigation has been carried out into which schools inform the most. There you can just see that the public schools inform more than the free schools, and in the open school area there is a marked difference between how much the Muslim free schools inform and the other free schools inform. It does send me some worries. It also sends some signs of concern when we see that there are several Muslim free schools under enhanced supervision. That is also why we are strengthening supervision today, both so that we can come after the Muslim free schools, which obviously do not comply with the rules, but also so that we can come after the others who do not. So all in all, I am glad that supervision is being strengthened today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142747	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142756	Thank you. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who disagrees with the desire for proper professional supervision. I think I have heard this across the board, including those elements of this bill which strengthen the ability of supervision itself to do their job. Compared with the fact that the grant can be taken from schools without stricter supervision, the draft law says: "The proposal will facilitate a faster procedure where there are obvious and compelling reasons to conclude that there is insufficient certainty that a free primary school complies with the freedom and the public government requirement. Can the rapporteur not be concerned that the definition or value attached to the two concepts can differ from one minister in office to the next, depending on the political conviction of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142848	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142852	No, I actually find that when you write in the bill that there must be serious reasons, then the minister must be able to explain it. After all, it is our job as Parliament to control the government, which is also in all other contexts. So whether it's an obvious case, like B.T. writes about where it is quite clear why you close the school immediately, or whether it is a matter that lies on the verge, then, as part of the Folketing, I will go in and ask for a statement and make sure that the minister complies with the rules. So no, I'm not worried about that. I am more concerned about the situations where there may be a school, where there are some quite unreasonable things going on and where we accept that perhaps 100 or 200 pupils should be taken for several months before action is taken, because we have to go through this enhanced supervision. I think it is good to have an emergency button and, of course, it should only be used in the quite general cases. But I actually trust that we can control that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142940	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315142943	Thank you. But my concern is quite really about something else. Now the rapporteur says that the Minister must of course be able to argue for it if, for example, we are to be able to argue for it. close a school without tighter supervision. But argue for it according to what? The rapporteur says that the Minister must, of course, prove that he or she has complied with the rules. But if these are the rules of free school law, they should be respected, otherwise there is a violation of law. So the point is, obvious and serious compared to what? What are the criteria we are setting out to be used as a framework for the argument that the grant can be taken from a free school without increased supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143025	These will be the same criteria as those laid down in the law today, i.e. that we must respect the freedom and the folk rule requirement, and that education must measure up to what is going to be achieved in a primary school. Then it will normally be that way, I think, and it will continue to be after this bill, but it has to be time to show, and then we can evaluate it together that in most cases there will be stricter supervision if there is doubt as to whether the school is doing it properly. But if there is really such a serious case that STUK, the supervisory authorities, considers that this should be closed immediately for the sake of the children, then I am actually sure that it is quite good for the children that we have them moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143100	There are two more brief points to make, and the first is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143106	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. I can say that I am very pleased that the SF also wants to safeguard freedom for free schools. Because there is no doubt that where the degree of freedom is, of course, a little at stake is when we make more and more supervisory requirements, one can say. I would really like to know whether the SF's rapporteur could perhaps say a little about when we are going to go too far, so I know that this is a big issue when we do not still have free schools. That is actually where I think the concern is, at least for me personally, that is, if we interfere too much with these schools too, and where we actually, it can be said, take that responsibility away from the parents. I fully agree with and am fully committed to the objectives of what we are now adopting today. But I'm thinking, among other things. on some of what we also talked about when I gave a speech, in other words in relation to the well-being of the students, etc. How far do we go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143221	We must go so far that we always ensure the child's best interests, whether a child attends a primary school or a free school. And that's why I think we should do well-being surveys in free schools and private schools. Whatever form of school there is, we must be sure that children thrive and that they have a legal basis, for example. when they are printed. That is why I believe that we can go further there. I do not think we should go further in relation to teaching and value. I believe that what makes the free schools strong is that they can do pedagogy in other ways than primary school. So, for example, I'm gonna... not to determine how many tests there should be or that they should now take elements from the primary school reform. And I also believe that the fact that the world can be viewed in other ways than the majority of the population does is fine as long as it respects freedom and the demands of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143310	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143312	Thank you. In relation to the donations, if I have to ask a question about it too, I fully agree that there could be places at least in relation to foreign donations where one could look at it more closely; we have also agreed on that. What is SF's attitude towards donations, including domestic ones? So I'm wondering if SF also wants an increased tightening in relation to donations, for example. if this is the case with sponsor bike racing, etc., which there are a lot of free and private schools holding to make the economy of the school stick together. What is SF's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143353	I think that's something I'd like to discuss. But my starting point in the debate will be that I think there should be strong control over it. We need to know exactly where the schools are being supported from. Well, where's the money coming from? I think that when it is the case that we spend as many billions on a school system as the free and private school system we have, we must also know where it is that they get support from when they do not only receive support from the state. And I do not think it is the right way to ban it when it is domestic, but I would argue that there must be strong control over it. But I'm ready to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143425	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143429	It is therefore liberating when rapporteurs admit that one has become wiser and also put into words why one has become wiser here because of the problems with the many Muslim free schools. I think others in this Chamber could learn something from this. So thank you for that. My question is about foreign donations. The Danish People's Party has previously proposed banning foreign donations to free schools in order to prevent extreme Muslim organisations from gaining control over free schools in Denmark. Could SF be interested in joining the Danish People's Party in a proposal to simply ban foreign donations to free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143520	Well, we actually proposed it in the negotiations we had in the area of agreement that led to this bill. And then I actually think what we shook was that we looked at it later. So I hope that this is something that could be addressed in that area of agreement. If that is not the case, and if I have misunderstood it, I would like to go into a work with Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen to see if you could ban foreign donations. But I think that after talking to the Free School Association some kind of cat nickname is needed, for example. can be supported by the EU • some of the money they spend on projects or from other funds that have been approved as well. Maybe you could make an approval list like that. Now I'm just standing here brainstorming from the platform. But the starting point is that I do not think that Danish school should be financed by foreign funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143611	That is a clear speech, and I should like to thank you for that. I mean, I'm working on it, and when I'm a little bit further, I'm gonna contact Mr. Simpson. Jacob Mark, and then we sit down together. And then we can hope that others in this Chamber are as open as Mr. Jacob Mark. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143628	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143630	There are no more authors to this rapporteur and I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315143639	I would like to start by thanking the broad circle of parties behind the agreement of 7 November 2017 on enhanced supervision of free primary schools. The draft law, which we are considering at first reading today, is the implementation of this agreement. The draft law strengthens the procedure for the creation of new free primary schools and at the same time strengthens the supervision of a number of initiatives. The free primary schools form an important part of the democratic culture in Denmark, and it is unique that we have a free and private school tradition in Denmark. Both conceptually and educationally, the free primary schools help to improve the quality of our entire school system, and most of the free primary schools do a good and important job. We have to protect that. At the same time, however, we must ensure that schools meet two general requirements: meet the requirement, that is to say, that education is in line with what is generally required in primary school, and then the requirement that freedom and popular government must influence the functioning of the school, regardless of which values and perceptions the school is otherwise based on. On 6 December 2016, a broad majority of the Folketing adopted legislative amendments with tighter supervisory tools to the free primary schools. The amendments to the Act took effect on 1 January 2017. However, recent cases in which individual schools have abused their freedom to undermine democratic values have shown that there is a need to strengthen the supervision of free primary schools even more. We will not accept that some schools work in direct contradiction to the free school idea and the values on which our society is based. The draft law contains a number of concrete measures, and I would like to highlight some of the most significant ones here. With the bill, we will introduce a new approval system. It shall ensure that newly created free primary schools from the first day indicate that they will comply with the requirements of the Free School Act for freedom, democracy and independence. It must also be the case that a school can obtain State subsidies without prior increased supervision. This will allow for a rapid response in very serious cases where it is quite obvious that the school has failed to comply with the freedom and the popular rule requirement or has provided a course that does not meet the requirement. With the proposal, we are, in general, strengthening the supervision of the current requirement for independence. It will be possible for the Minister of Education to decide, as part of the supervision of compliance with the independence requirement, that the Ministry participate as an observer in the board meetings of a free primary school and, where appropriate, in general meetings and parent meetings as part of the supervision. In addition, we propose that a free primary school should not receive anonymous donations of more than DKK 20,000. Another measure is the establishment of a whistleblower scheme, which allows everyone to contact the Ministry of Education anonymously if they know that there are possible offences or are worrying conditions in a free primary school. We have also proposed that a large number of the proposals should be temporary as a result of their intrusive nature towards schools. In addition, the draft law contains minor amendments to the law on free school and changes to the law on primary school. It's a tough diet, but unfortunately it's necessary. For freedom, equality and democracy are the foundations of our society. The proposal for a better framework for the supervision of free primary schools must help to ensure that only those schools which have organized their school activities comply with the conditions laid down in the Free School Act. It is a reasonable requirement to make school provision that, in addition to providing a professional level that is in line with primary school, they also provide school throughout their activities in a way that prepares pupils for a free and democratic society such as the Danish one. We must strike a good balance between freedom on the one hand and supervision on the other. The stumbled vessels should not destroy it for everyone else, and that is why this bill is necessary and important. I would like to thank you for the constructive and thorough discussions we have had in the Chamber today, and I look forward to any questions that may arise during the committee's reading. Finally, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for our journey together in this area. We share a love for the Danish free school tradition, and at the same time we are determined to stop subsidies and opportunities for schools that collide with freedom and the popular rule requirement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144116	Two brief comments have been made for the time being. The first is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144127	Thank you. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think that these are some excellent measures and there is a need for some sharpening in this area. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think that there are limits to how many times we can continue to tighten up the supervision of all free and private schools. As the Left rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, said, it is true that by far, the vast majority of free and private schools are actually doing very well. When is it that the minister will tackle the root of the nettle and talk about the Muslim free schools and do the supervision exactly at the Muslim free schools and not like cutting all free and private schools over a comb?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144209	This is a very interesting question which we must remember to hide for posterity. It is my view that social democracy's regulatory powers towards free schools are almost insatiable. The rapporteur himself has said to everything that we want only half of the children attending a free primary school today to do so in the future. It's unclear what kind of kids it is. It may be, they are Muslim children, it may be, those children are Christians, and it may be some very other children I don't know. At any rate, I know that there are many Social Democrats who also make use of the freedom that lies in choosing a free primary school. I think they should keep doing that, and I think it should be up to people themselves if they comply with the law, whether they want to choose one type of school or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144253	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144256	There is absolutely no doubt that we think that primary school should be the natural first choice, and we also believe that fewer people should attend free and private schools. But that doesn't change the fact that many of the free and private schools that are doing very well are doing very well, and here we are all cutting our heads off and not tackling where there are problems, and that is precisely at Muslim free schools. So I didn't get an answer as to when the minister will address the Muslim free schools in order to sharpen these things, so we're talking exactly about the Muslim free schools and not everyone else. And will the Minister help to discuss this now that we are in the process of discussing and negotiating parallel societies? Will the Minister be involved in discussing Muslim free schools in relation to that? I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144341	It's like turning the world inside out. For as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said, it was exactly the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party that asked to be made wiser in this area at all, because we could see that there were some problems. It was rejected purely in the Social Democratic Party. You wouldn't look at it at all, because there was no problem. And now the rapporteur says that the fundamental principles of freedom of belief in society, that is, that people have the right to act according to their beliefs, will be rejected. It's crazy, and it's actually hard to give a brief answer to something like that. But let us hide it from posterity, for it may be interesting to take up such a question and answer to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144421	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144425	It does not matter which parties are in power. Nor does it matter which people sit as ministers, and I was pleased when Mrs Merete Riisager was appointed Minister of Education. But of course I was also a little suspicious, because you never know what happens to people when they become ministers. It often happens that you run away from what you've meant in the past. In the Minister's case, she didn't run away from it. What she and I tried to do during the period when the Social Democracy was in power, she stood by. And I really want to thank you for that, because it is an example to follow. I would also like to thank the Minister for knowing what this is all about. She understands that we need to take action against the environments that use the law of free school to spread their Islamic extreme agenda. So thank you for your cooperation. It has been a pleasure and I hope that we can continue this and further tighten the law if needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144548	Thank you very much for that recognition. It's great to get such recognition. I'm very happy about that. What we are preoccupied with in the government, and which the Danish People's Party is also concerned with, is whether things are working or whether real change is actually taking place. And that is what is happening at the moment. It may not be as fast as you want in the Danish People's Party, but we agree on the direction. We agree that we do not accept that schools completely undermine the principles that are to be expected of a free school based on that we will not accept. And that is also why we are adopting this bill today. The rapporteur also knows that I am doing this with a trembling heart, because of course I am concerned about what can happen to free schools, even in the future, if there is a minister whose regulatory powers are huge. And perhaps they even have a goal that only half of the children attending the free primary school today should do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144646	Does the author wish to speak on a second brief point? The questioner does not. So thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144706	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144730	Thank you very much for that, President. Unfortunately, we in Denmark have major problems with people who repeatedly set up new businesses and cheat on VAT and taxes. Cheating on VAT and taxes is a problem that costs the Danish Treasury billions of dollars. The draft law we are discussing today intends to put an end to this fraud and deliberate evasion by exploiting the new technology. This can be done by using and merging the many databases available to public authorities. The idea is that better coordination and cooperation between Danish Business Administration, SKAT and Payout Denmark etc. To expose the illegals and make them stop. It is our expectation that the exploitation of new technology will lead to more effective and intelligent control of those who do not want to comply with laws and regulations and who repeatedly try to cheat on VAT and taxes. As a society, we cannot accept the possibility of cheating the Danish Treasury. As both Payout Denmark and SKAT writes in their consultation answer, this will have great potential in terms of their work in identifying potential scammers. Of course, we support this on the part of the Social Democratic Party. There is no doubt that cooperation between authorities in areas where this makes sense is necessary, and that is why we are also prepared for the authorities to use and use the information already held by the authorities. For the Social Democratic Party, it is of course important that the final proposal complies with all applicable and future laws on personal data security and data processing. The draft law even gives the Minister very broad powers to lay down the guidelines and rules for the collection and processing of data. More consultation answers demand clearer rules, and the Social Democratic Party wants to find out in the further committee's work whether it is appropriate for such broad powers to be given to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144944	You're welcome. There are no brief comments right now. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315144953	Thank you very much. I will follow up where the Social Democrat rapporteur left off. After all, we in the Danish People's Party have also read through the hearings that have been held, and of course we also think that some of them give us reason to have the Minister clarify and clarify what is up and down in relation to the criticisms that are being made. But it shouldn't change the fact that we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill. It is, of course, a bill designed to strengthen the fight against organised fraud, and it is intended to implement this agreement, on which a very broad majority of Parliament's parties agree. I think it is in fact only Enhedslisten, who is not included in the final agreement. This helps to provide a greater degree of cooperation between SKAT and the Danish Business Authority. This is all quite reasonable. We just need to be sure that it is also compatible with the data registration rules that must also apply, i.e. that if there is particularly sensitive information, it may be personal, I would have said, or others, then these powers to the Danish Business Administration must also be within a reasonable framework. We are confident and also have a belief that it will be possible to do so. I would like to say before I conclude that this is a new law, which only applies to the processing of data by the Danish Business Administration. We have had discussions in the past that we should be careful not to create too many different individual legislations in Denmark. There are, after all, other agencies and other councils and other boards in other places where data can be processed which can be used in relation to fraud and anything else, so one could therefore imagine that perhaps over time there could be so many different laws, depending on the data requirements and permissions that we would give. And there it might be interesting, I think, and for the government's information, if you could get some of this together in a major registration law, so that you do not have to put in place detailed legislation for each administration under the various Councils of Resorts. However, as I said, the intention and content are quite reasonable. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145221	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Left Party, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145230	Thank you. Organized fraud with VAT and taxes is a challenge for the tax authorities in Denmark and also in other countries, and we are so concerned that we strengthen the tax administration's ability to perform better and more intelligent controls. There is a broad political agreement on this in the Folketing. These are all parties of the Folketing with the exception of the Enhedslisten. And the bill that we are now discussing translates one of the actions of the agreement that has been reached, and it is also in line with the government's common public digitalisation strategy. As the two previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law provides for the possibility of carrying out data-driven checks, among other things. in connection with the registration of undertakings. When setting up companies, the registration process begins with the Danish Business Administration, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that an intelligent control is located here. This allows the Danish Business Administration to take action against companies even before they are registered. Thus, there is the possibility of taking measures against companies which are considered to have an increased risk of committing fraud against VAT and excise duties. We are doing so, just as the Socialist rapporteur said, with the proposal we are introducing the possibility of using the new technology, what we call machine learning, so that the data and search patterns that exist are simply optimized so that we have an effective, intelligent and data-driven control effort which will also help to identify new types of fraud patterns. In addition, the bill allows the Danish Business Authority to collate its own data between areas, so that the Board can streamline the use of its own data for control and supervision purposes. This means that the data available will be used to ensure effective control. It is, of course, somewhat inappropriate if there is relevant information which is not used to intervene against people who intend to set up a company with the aim of cheating the Treasury of financial resources. It is therefore a question of having effective protection. So it is basically quite reasonable that we make use of the data that are available and that we use new technologies to optimize control, so that skilled companies who do their job must compete with like-minded people, and thus it is not companies that cheat and cheat and evade taxes and VAT that win consumer favor. It must be fair and fair and fair competition, and this means, of course, that those who cheat on the weight should also know that there is a very, very high risk that the public authorities will get hold of them and that no one can avoid paying the taxes they have to pay. That is quite reasonable and it is technologically advanced in the shoes. In other words, we are also delighted that we are using the new technological opportunities to optimise the public sector. That is why, of course, we support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145548	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145557	This bill is intended to provide the legal framework for the processing of data by the Danish Business Authority for the use of intelligent control. It is a coinage of parts of the agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative. This is the agreement that is about strengthened control and guidance. It is an agreement with a great deal of good action in, an agreement in which Enhedslisten can support all the initiatives included in the agreement. But it is also an agreement that Enhedslisten is not part of, because when we reached the final alleraller's last meeting of the negotiations and discussed the financing it was in the last few minutes of that negotiation that we simply did not manage to remove the part of the funding that is about that part of this has been financed by undermining driving arrangements for rehabilitation for older people. We simply do not want to be involved in this. We want to help strengthen tax control, but in the same way to reduce driving arrangements for older people for rehabilitation, we simply think that we are unacceptable, especially because we know that when we employ tax workers in this area, there is no real need for funding, because these tax workers are not just earning their own wages, they earn much more than their own wages. So there is really no need for funding at all, and when the funding then became a deterioration in driving arrangements for older people for rehabilitation, unfortunately in the last few minutes of the debate we had to say that we liked the content but that the funding was simply unacceptable. However, precisely because this is one of the actions of the agreement that is being implemented here, we are of course in favour of the legislative proposal. It must also be said, however, that the draft law is much more detailed than the political agreement that has been made, and it is always somewhat more flexible in a legislative proposal what the content of the cooperation between the authorities is, that is, when you see the concrete legislative text and the comments on the legislative text. However, like Mrs Karin Gaardsted, I have to say that this is a very broad framework for the collection of data which has been set up here, and I fully agree with Mrs Karin Gaardsted that this is something that we should delve into the committee procedure. This is not something I can say which was part of the negotiations that we had over at the Treasury, i.e. at this level of detail. I think that is perhaps also important to mention today. But I fully agree that it is very comprehensive and that these are very, very broad rules that we simply need to look at in committee. That really is part of it too, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby said, this is about the fact that we have a lot of legislative proposals at the moment, which are about data interconnection and data usage. There, too, when we have all the various legislative proposals that come down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we can look at what the common denominator is for this or how we ensure that there will be common rules in this area. I must also say that there we on the Enhedslisten do not have a position that there should be some other or lesser legal certainty for people who run a business, in relation to people who are in another place in life or who are living in another way. So legal certainty must, as a general rule, be considered in the same way. However, there is clearly a need to delve into the rules on registration and interconnection, but we are, as I also said, in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145941	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315145944	Thank you. The proposal here translates parts of the agreement on enhanced control and guidance in the field of taxation. We have had a common political ambition to take tough action against companies set up for the purpose of fraud and crime. This is why it will be possible to use so-called machine learning to identify potentially cheating companies. This requires the power to collate information from different authorities and from publicly available sources. We can support that. In view of the fact that crime can change rapidly, that criminals can change behaviour, we also think that it is quite good that the Minister of Industry is empowered to extend the co-driving of information from other sources. The important thing here is that information is only used for the sole purpose of catching criminals. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150102	[Sounds out]... here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150109	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also very pleased to be in the agreement and think that both the intention and timing are very good. We need to put an end to this type of fraud. I do not want to repeat what my fellow rapporteurs have said about the vigilance with regard to data interconnection, but I agree. We must look at this in the committee work. I also think it's important to say as one of those who can stand up here and be a little crazy and tough in the tone when it comes to running data and the need to think Privacy by design into our new solutions, that then we also have to take along with us and it's not just because we're in the agreement here that it's new country, also for the government. Therefore, we must, of course, be open to the fact that it is both to the best of our ability and from available knowledge, and that it would be new to all government parties who should be in this situation right now and make such massive changes in the way we use data. This does not mean that we are less critical and attentive, and that is also true of committee work, but it is clear that it is a new country. So let's see if we can't incorporate some of these critical consultation answers, including from the Lawyers' Council, that you can't really see for yourself what's on you and get something done about it. However, it is a very good agreement that will hopefully put an end to the possibility of fraud that has existed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150231	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is as far as I can see, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150240	As a number of my fellow Members have said, this is an agreement which is also included in the Radical Left. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all parties, and this is also true of the Enhedslisten, although you ended up not participating, for the cooperation to do something about both tax havens and tax fraud. I think we all agree that something needs to be done about that. This bill allows the Ministry of Business and their administration to run data together from other places, so that you can see whether a company that has been set up, or at least the person behind it, cheats on taxes or has done so in the past. It is a good idea to use the different registers and then run them the same to get checked cross-checks. We are in favour of this, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150331	Thank you. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150351	Thank you very much. The draft law here, as several have mentioned, aims to strengthen the digital control of companies during the registration phase in order to reduce fraud with VAT and tax. The legislative proposal, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is the implementation of this broad agreement that we made on strengthening the control and guidance of companies, in which we actually get 135 more years' work for control, and we set aside nearly 0.5 billion. kr. further to tax control. So this is a very good agreement, we think from the conservative side. By carrying out a so-called intelligent control based on data and algorithms, it will be easier even before a company registers itself to detect and stop attempts at cheating and fraud, and at the same time the increased use of co-driving data will give the Danish Business Authority better opportunity to guide companies that may inadvertently be affected by this new control, i.e. may be prevented from registering their business. The proposed method has also been recommended by the auditors in their report on effective control. It is important to find a good balance in the control effort so that we target the efforts where the risk is greatest without creating a large bureaucratic system that hits all the law-abiding. That's why we think this new tool is really sensible. This can help track down potential scammers very early in the process and thus limit the possibility of them getting started at all. It is, of course, unacceptable if some people are organized using our common fund to cheat on money to which they are not entitled, and we must, of course, fight that kind of cheating. But the good thing about this system is that at the same time it can also be used to improve guidance for the vast majority, fortunately, law-abiding and real companies. It is important that we set up a system for those who are unbureaucratic and user-friendly. So at least we think it's good that this technology can be used to carry out both of these tasks. So, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150557	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so I give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150609	Thank you very much for the many positive comments. The legislative proposal must ensure the legal framework for us to establish more intelligent controls when companies are set up. This must prevent companies from being set up and used for organised fraud. The draft law, as several of the rapporteurs have mentioned, is the implementation of one of the measures aimed at strengthening the fight against organised fraud, in the political agreement, an agreement for enhanced control and guidance in the tax field, which we in the government entered into with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative. The intelligent control means we need to use new technology, we call it machine learning, to identify signs of fraud. This will give businesses a better chance of finding companies that are set up for fraud purposes. The bill ensures that business can collect and process information from other public authorities as well as from publicly available sources. This is necessary if it is to be possible to establish an intelligent control as early as the registration phase. The bill also allows the Danish Business Authority to pass on information to other public authorities for the purposes of their control and supervisory tasks. The cooperation between the various authorities, and not least between the tax authorities and the Danish Business Authority, is essential for us to succeed in better counteracting the creation of companies for organised fraud. We will strengthen this by ensuring better sharing of data between the authorities. The control itself and any decision to carry out checks on companies are, of course, carried out by the authorities. The use of machine learning and data sharing is used to provide control officers with a much better basis for carrying out this control. It is my clear view that this legislative proposal provides a framework for more effective and targeted control of businesses. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and hope for a constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150826	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150845	The debate is open, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315150911	Thank you. After all, L 175, which we are the first to deal with today, stems from the tragic fatal accident in the port of Copenhagen in 2017, when two young American exchange students lost their lives. That is why we have also decided in the past, on the basis of the same tragic accident, that per year should be fixed. 1 January this year, demands for water scooter certificates are being introduced, and with this bill we are taking another step. The bill provides for liability insurance with compulsory liability for damage caused by something as literal as: speedboats with a hull length of less than 15 metres, water scooters and similar vessels for which training is required for the master of the vessel. In other words, this bill must ensure that there is insurance coverage if accidents occur in the future involving, among other things: Water scooters. The liability insurance must cover both personal injury and loss of breadwinner, and it can therefore be said that this bill is slightly different, by introducing objective liability for personal injury and loss of breadwinner, whereas damage to property will continue to be replaced under the usual known rules. The reason for introducing objective liability in the event of personal injury and loss of dependants in the event of an accident caused by speedboats and water scooters is such that the victim should not be left with a great financial burden and the risk of legal proceedings. In other words, with this bill we will ensure the injured in the event of personal injury and loss of breadwinner. This also means that the vessel may not be used without the presentation of a certificate proving the existence of liability insurance and, furthermore, the bill also provides for the possibility of confiscation of the vessels in question by what we call madness sailing, which today's maritime safety law does not allow. Hopefully, with the Water Scooter Certificate Act and this bill, we can avoid cases like the one we saw in the harbour of Copenhagen in 2017, and if such an accident should occur in the future, we have ensured with this bill that the victim can be compensated, which today can be very difficult. With those words, the Social Democratic Party can also support the bill. I must say that if the radical rapporteur does not get there, they will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151115	Thank you. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151124	Thank you, Madam President. The accident, which should never have occurred, but which nevertheless occurred on 7 May 2017, is why we are now introducing legislation to minimise the problems of careless and crazy sailing with water scooter, jet skis and smaller speedboats. The latter, however, does not seem to me to be the big problem, since a speedboat of less than 15 metres cannot be maneuvered in the same crazy way as can be done with water scooter and jet skis. As a trained navigator and with my work as a driver of commercial craft in the harbour of Copenhagen, I have experienced daily since 2010 in the months of May to September how big a problem it really is that there are water scooters and jet skis in the harbour. Of course, there are many who sail as they must, namely to get on the water and enjoy it, but since the speed limits in the port are 7, 11 and 15 km/h respectively, very few are complying with this, and that is where the problems arise. For the young people do not necessarily have the brake that is needed to sail as they should. That's why the miserable thing happened. They sail up to 100 km/h. In between other small boats, and often they sail straight towards other boats to shortly before confrontation to turn sharply to the right or left and thus send cascades of water up over others who walk on the water, and not least the thousands of poor tourists who sail around with the canal cruise boats in the harbour of Copenhagen. It is therefore high time for us to have laws that will help to stop this madness and which will mean that, among other things, we will be able to do something about it. must have a speedboat certificate when it comes to small speedboats, but now also from 1 January 2018 a water scooter certificate if you want to sail with a water scooter or jet ski. Furthermore, all small boats must have liability insurance based on culpa liability, which is linked to the individual boat, and, last but not least, the police and port authorities must have the opportunity to seize a vessel if it is repeatedly sailed recklessly or you exceed the speed limits over and over again. However, we know from the experience of all clubs and operators in the ports and on the water that what we want to put into effect with this bill is not enough to stop any madness leaders. More police are needed here in our larger ports, for example. In the harbour of Copenhagen you have to make it impossible for the water scooters to sail through the ladder tables in the south under the Sjælland Bridge. Of course, this does not apply to rowing boats, canoes and kayaks. They still have to be able to get through if you block them off. In the Danish People's Party, we would like to support this bill, L 175, but at the same time look forward to our motion for a resolution, B 42, becoming law as soon as possible, as one of the most important things is to give municipalities the right to ban water scooters and jet skiing at certain beaches and in certain major ports during the summer months. I say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151445	So does the President. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the course of our speeches, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151457	Thank you. As both the previous rapporteurs mentioned, this is the source of the tragic water-scooting accident that was in the harbour of Copenhagen last year, when two young people tragically lost their lives. On top of this accident, the rules on sailing have been tightened up, and now we are also coming in the area of the Minister of Industry with further measures to remedy the situation. First, as I said, there is the introduction of compulsory liability insurance and an objective liability for personal injury and loss caused by speedboats with a hull length of less than 15 metres, water scooters and similar vessels for which training is required for the master of the vessel or any mate. Just as it is already compulsory today to have liability insurance for your car, motorbike, scooter or moped, we also introduce the requirement that there should be liability insurance on these vessels at sea, which can of course sail at very high speed. The proposal will strengthen safety at sea and ensure that, if there is damage to either persons or things, there is therefore financial certainty that you can be compensated after a possible accident, and therefore liability insurance must include personal injury, loss of breadwinner and damage to property within the limits of liability laid down in the Maritime Act. When it comes to the movement of water, there are no road signs or intersections, so it is important that the rules governing safe navigation be observed, and therefore the bill also allows vessels to be confiscated if they are used for so-called crazy sailing or are repeatedly navigated or treated insecurely and recklessly. Finally, the proposal adjusts some of the grant provisions in relation to the Maritime Authority's supervision of the provisions of the Maritime Law. I think it is quite reasonable for us to have a legislative response on top of a tragic accident. We have taken the initiative in the past, and now we are also making sure that vessels can be confiscated and that insurance is required so that the accident should happen again, there is therefore financial security for the victims. We hope, of course, that it will never be applied and that we will not see anyone sailing recklessly and at the risk of others' lives and ability, but if the unthinkable happens, we will of course ensure that things are in place. It makes very good sense for us to update the legislation in this area, and we, of course, support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151800	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315151807	Thank you. I said during the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 42 from the Danish People's Party, that although we were certainly in favour of the resolution, it was a bit like kicking in an open door because we were aware that the minister was on the way with a bill. Having seen the bill now, I would like to say that it was a little wrong to say that. I would rather say that it is a question of the two things supplementing each other in an excellent way, because I agree with the rapporteur of the DF that the draft law is not sufficient to that extent. However, if this is seen in the context of the resolution, which was also widely endorsed by me when we dealt with the B 42 motion for a resolution, I think we certainly have something that works. There are three steps in this bill. There are, among other things: the compulsory liability insurance and the possibility of confiscation of vessels. We certainly think that is a very good idea. So I do not want to say that this is a problem, and we will certainly end up with that too, so I can tell you right now to vote for this bill, but it is of course always problematic when you start applying objective responsibility to different things. Although I know that it is being done elsewhere, and although I know very well that the Enhedslisten has helped to do so in the area of traffic law, we believe that we must always stop when we face such an objective responsibility. However, I would like to say that we are actually pleased with the change that has taken place from the legislative proposal that was sent in consultation to the legislative proposal that is now being put forward, in that it has been established that the objective responsibility lies with the person using the vessel and not necessarily with the owner. This is what may be a little problematical and, for that matter, not with the landlord, as I understand it, but precisely with the person using the vessel and causing the accident which may, of course, have tragic consequences, as we saw it. That is why we are actually pleased with the change that has taken place. We can see that it has come in after the hearing from the Lawyers' Society, or whatever the hell it is called. I don't remember, but it doesn't matter because we think it's good. Then we can also see in the consultation note and it also makes us happy that we have actually considered and are working on introducing a registration system, license plate system, or whatever it may be. In fact, we believe that this is essential in the end if we are to ensure that the rules are applied in this area. This was also one of the things that DF's rapporteur, Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, mentioned that this is really about police resources and the possibility of enforcement. After all, the National Police have also given a hearing answer in which they question whether you have the resources to do this or whether you have a way of doing it. And there is no doubt that if you get a registration of the vessels in question they have not been registered today in the form of a license plate system or whatever you can imagine, then you have come really, really far. So we see the comments in the consultation note on the part of the Ministry as being on the way as if it were going to be addressed; you can't reach it in this assembly, but it'll probably come in the next assembly. Apparently, there are some technical issues that need to be settled. Everything is in order, peace with it, but we look forward to something coming, because that is what will ensure that the legislative proposal makes sense at the end of the day, because if you cannot enforce some rules you adopt, it can almost be of no consequence. So, with those comments, I can inform you that the Enhedslisten will certainly vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152213	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152223	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here comes in the wake of the rather terrible water scooter accident that we saw last year. We must always be careful to make legislation on the basis of individual cases, but the restrictions proposed here are relatively limited and sensible. In relation to the possibility of harming others, speedboats and water scooters remind us of cars, and when you introduce a requirement for liability insurance and assign objective liability, the rules are quite parallel to the rules for drivers, and that is quite fair to me. It is a very good thing that we are making precise legislation here which deals only with those vessels that have the potential to incur other serious damage and that we have not tightened up in relation to other pleasure craft. Similarly, I think it is a good thing that we have not created new rules for the very large and expensive vessels, where we have not seen this type of accident and where they are probably not possible either. The proposal also allows us to confiscate vessels used for so-called crazy sailing. I have to admit, I think it's such a weird solution. I have absolutely no objection to punishing people who in this way put other people's lives at risk, really, really, really hard, but this punishment of confiscating has always seemed a little silly to me. This is because, if they have an expensive vessel, they will be hit harder by crazy sailors than if they have a cheap one, and I think that is a little inappropriate. In both cases, severe punishment should be imposed. The rules seem to me a little illogical, but the rules are again parallel to the rules on motorism, and after all I do not think this is a major objection. And if the Minister of Business gets a little annoyed that I'm saying that, I understand, because it's only something I got to think about when I had to make the speech for this bill. But you can say that this means that if you have a low income, but have chosen to spend a lot of money on an expensive water scooter, you are penalised more than if you have a very high income, but have chosen to spend money on a cheaper vessel. But again: there are parallels to carism, which is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152451	Thank you. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152459	Like the other rapporteurs, I would also like to say that, in a tragic backdrop, we have had a good legislative proposal. In the alternative, we support both the confiscation and the guarantee that an injured person will actually receive a proper insurance sum. We think that is quite reasonable. As Mr. Henning Hyllested among others mentioned • I can't actually remember if he was the only one • the idea of license plates is quite interesting. One thing is that you can secure registration, but you also have the opportunity to look at whether there might be a registration fee in relation to the environmental impact that such vessels can have. So we support and think that this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152549	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152555	We are here today on a very sad background, that is to say we have seen a terrible accident in the harbour of Copenhagen, where more people lost their lives, and where I think we all woke up to a shock that it could happen. I also think that many of us have experienced how crazy has been sailed with both speedboats and water scooters boats in the harbour of Copenhagen, but also up the beaches around. That is why it is an area where there can be no lawlessness, but where rules actually have to be in place, as is the case with all other traffic. That is why we think it is a very good proposal made by the Minister for Industry, so that vessels can be confiscated and that there must be compulsory liability insurance for water scooters and speedboats, so that damage can also be covered and someone can be held liable if they have caused damage. Of course, we hope most of all that this will have a preventive effect, so we will never again experience anything like what we experienced last summer and which came very close to many of us in a very terrible way. So we support the bill by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152708	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152724	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here is aimed at tightening up the requirements for speedboats, water scooters and similar vessels. After all, this is a bill that comes in the wake of this tragic fatal accident in the port of Copenhagen, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and it has of course shown that there is a need to tighten up the rules in relation to carrying pleasure craft on the water. Unfortunately, there have been many examples of what is called madness sailing, and that is why there is also a need to create legislation where there are greater demands and where there are also some more sanctions, for example. confiscation of the vessel, as proposed in the bill here. The bill also lays down requirements for a so-called water scooter certificate and liability insurance, which you must have before you can operate a water scooter. In addition, there is an objective responsibility for personal injury imposed by the master of the vessel, which, after all, makes the victim somewhat better if the accident is out. So we also think that this is a really sensible tightening-up, so that, for example, we can do something about it. avoids having to go to court with the financial consequences that it may have if you have been injured. At the same time, I would also like to acknowledge that it has been decided that damage to property should continue to be replaced in accordance with the general rules, i.e. according to culpa responsibility, because this creates a better balance in the legislative proposal, I think. When you read more of the consultation answers, you can also see that there are more people who have to mention this challenge. For the risk of introducing a general objective responsibility would be to make it considerably more expensive for all yachts to take out compulsory liability insurance, which is why I think there is, in fact, a very sensible balance in the draft law here, which sets out objective liability. This means, on the one hand, taking the side of the weaker party in connection with personal injury, as you know from, for example. traffic law, while on the other hand it does not seriously affect all yachts in the form of increased costs of travelling at sea. With these comments, however, I should like to say that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152936	Thank you. The next speaker is the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315152945	Thank you and thank you for all the positive comments. The proposal we are debating today must be seen in the wake of the serious and very tragic water-scooting accident in the port of Copenhagen last year. It was quite awful, and it happened, of course, that we had to react. So the government wants to strengthen the safety of water scooters, just as the government wants to improve the economic situation of those who are injured in the event of an accident anyway. This is being done in concrete terms by proposing to tighten up the rules for speedboats, water scooters and similar vessels. The draft law proposes three stricter rules. Firstly, a general compulsory liability insurance is proposed. Insurance shall cover both material damage and cases where persons are injured or killed. Secondly, an objective responsibility is proposed in cases where persons are injured or killed. Thirdly, the draft law gives greater scope for the confiscation of vessels. Here we are giving a clear signal that confiscation must take place when water scooters and speedboats are used for ruthless sailing, so-called madness sailing, when it is considered necessary to prevent further violations. The stricter rules contained in the bill concern speedboats with a hull length of less than 15 metres, water scooters and similar vessels for which training is required for the master of the vessel or, where applicable, the master of the vessel. This will include the fastest recreational craft, with the greatest demands on the watchfulness of the sailors and where it is estimated that there is the greatest risk of causing other damage. I think that with this bill we have found a fine balance between, on the one hand, the strengthening of safety at sea and the safeguarding of victims and, on the other hand, the need not to impose unnecessary burdens on recreational sailors. I look forward to further consideration of the draft law and hope for constructive discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315153202	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315153222	The debate is open and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315153258	It is a good legislative proposal which aims to ensure that consumers in Denmark and, in concrete terms, ensure that insurance customers continue to cover damage if the insurance company in which they have taken out insurance should go bankrupt. In other words, it is a proposal which, I hope, will be very rarely applied, but which, of course, must be there as a safety net for citizens who can suddenly find themselves in a situation that will destroy their economic opportunities for the rest of their lives. The proposal is based on the experience of the insurance company Gable Insurance from Liechtenstein, which went bankrupt in November 2016. Here all the Danes who had taken out insurance in their Danish company, called Houseowners' Insurance, suddenly stood without cover for their change of ownership insurance. Fortunately, a majority in this Parliament joined forces to secure the bankrupt customers who faced acute problems. The legislation we adopted at the time ensured that Danish insurance companies would be members of the Guarantee Fund, but there was uncertainty as to whether we could require foreign companies providing insurance in Denmark to be required to be members of the Guarantee Fund. Therefore, the scheme became voluntary and the voluntary nature of foreign companies has meant that only 3 out of approx. 500 foreign companies have signed up and paid to the Guarantee Fund. There is of course not good enough, as this means that there are many Danes who can stand without security if their foreign insurance company should go bankrupt. It is therefore good that the European Commission has now confirmed to the FSA that it is in line with Solvency II that insurance companies providing insurance to customers in Denmark must be members of and must make contributions to the Guarantee Fund. It is good that we can now create equality before the law and create clarity so that insured persons in Denmark will be guaranteed in future, regardless of where the insurance company in which they have drawn an insurance contract is based. The draft law ensures that the Guarantee Fund enters into and provides cover for all in the event of bankruptcy. So for the financing of the fund: how is it to be done? Yes, the foreign non-life insurance companies which, with this bill, will be members of the Guarantee Fund will have to make a one-off contribution to ensure that there is an appropriate asset in the Guarantee Fund. The one-off contribution is set at DKK 50. per policy for a number of consumer insurance contracts signed by foreign insurance companies in Denmark, which have already been subscribed at the time of the company's entry into the fund. It is proposed that the one-off contribution may not be less than DKK 100,000. Then there is a change in the coverage of the Guarantee Fund. On the entry into force of the Act, the Guarantee Fund will cover only the undertaking held by insurance companies in Denmark for risks in Denmark. In other words, the Fund no longer covers direct insurance by Danish companies in other countries within the EU and countries with which the EU has concluded agreements in the financial field. In order to ensure that those currently covered by the Guarantee Fund, which will no longer be covered after 1 January 2019, the companies must inform each customer in the autumn of 2018 that their insurance remains valid but that they are not secured in the event of the possible bankruptcy of the Danish company. Then there's a change in the coverage period with this bill for nonlife insurance contracts that can't be rewritten in the event of an insurance company going bankrupt. This means that the Guarantee Fund covers claims under a change of ownership insurance, a building damage insurance and a salesman's liability over the life of the insurance in order to avoid that policy holders and insured persons are without insurance cover in the event of the bankruptcy of a company. Finally, I would like to say that there are elements in this legislative proposal that I would like to ask about during the committee procedure, because it is important that we ensure that there are enough funds in the Guarantee Fund and if there is a bankruptcy where the fund is supposed to cover customers and provide compensation for damage. I refer to the powers granted to the Minister for Business and Industry with the proposal and the regulations which the Minister is required to issue. Overall, this is a very, very good proposal which the Social Democrats can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315153725	Thank you. The next rapporteur in the series of speakers is Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315153735	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you look back a little bit, this case reminds me of such a really good old Olsen-Band movie. There are some corrupt, creative business people, in this case a Liechtenstein-based insurance company that sells some incredibly cheap change of ownership insurance. And the Danes are a merchant, and when you get a good offer, you sometimes say yes. It was over 26,000 different real estate buyers in Denmark who did so during the time when they offered their insurance. And it turned out that the offer was anything but good; the price was low, but the quality was incredibly poor. And the company ended up going bankrupt, and then they had some worthless insurance. It was therefore, of course, nice that PensionDanmark or the Insurance Fund, in relation to insurance and pension, went in and agreed to make an agreement so that one could ensure that one could give a better legal position for these thousands of Danish property owners who had these worthless insurances. It was something which was implemented through a political agreement and which has also been implemented in Danish legislation in advance. However, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also made clear, it was as if we had forgotten something when some might still be able to be creative in their approach to how to offer these assurances. It was, of course, if it was foreign companies that still want to offer their insurance services to Danish real estate buyers, and this applies both to change of ownership insurances, building damage insurances and to these salesmen's liability insurances. What we are now getting into the law here is quite clear that we are making greater demands on foreign companies who want to offer their insurance to Danish home buyers. And it makes sense for us to have a minimum policy premium that we have to pay, and it is even better that we also opt for a relatively high one-off contribution which must apply to these many foreign insurance companies. It is important for the Danish People's Party that we improve the legal position of the many real estate buyers. It is important that you have great confidence and confidence in the insurance offered on the Danish market. Many don't buy very many properties during a life, others think it's fun to move. But it's also very characteristic that it's some very serious consequences it can have if you suddenly have a house that has these qualities that don't work, it can be mold, it can be constructional sloppy and other hidden things and flaws and it's missing, and then you have a worthless insurance. So in the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that we are now closing this creative element with the addition that will then be introduced to the law with regard to Bill L 176. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154056	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154108	Thank you. As already mentioned, the history is that Gable Insurance went bankrupt on 19 November 2016. Normally, it is not something you are very interested in in Denmark that an insurance company based in Liechtenstein goes bankrupt, but it turned out in relation to customers who had bought, among other things. change of ownership insurance in Houseowners Insurance that it was really insurance that was at Gable Insurance. Not everyone had bought a change of ownership insurance, for example, who was aware that it was really a Liechtenstein company. It is also quite a different matter from how one had marketed oneself, but leave it at that. The reality was that we faced a problem for 26,000 Danish homeowners. And I'm glad that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament came together on the bus and got a change of law that ensured that the insurance customers in Denmark who thought they had bought an insurance cover covered by the Guarantee Fund and it can be said that some of them have at least been easily lured into the understanding we held our hands on, and we spread the Guarantee Fund's work to cover also in this case, even if there was no previous legal basis for it. We have also subsequently agreed that other insurance companies from EU and EEA countries can join the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. It may well be that we have slightly different figures • I think it is five companies that I have been informed have chosen to join the fund. But we are now moving on with this bill, because here we are ensuring that it is made a requirement that direct signifying non-life insurance companies from other EU and EEA countries, which, through branch or cross-border service activities, take out insurance in Denmark, must be a member of the Guarantee Fund and therefore also pay to the Guarantee Fund. In this way, we ensure that the situation that arose in November 2016 cannot be repeated. We therefore ensure that when Danes buy non-life insurance, they are covered by the guarantee scheme, so they should not be worried that the insurance they have taken out to cover themselves against potentially very, very large losses will be rendered worthless in the event of the insurance company going bankrupt. And that specifically means that no matter where your company is located, you get cover. We also ensure that when new members come along and therefore have to be covered for a greater risk, they must of course also pay a contribution, but this is a one-off contribution of DKK 50. per policy, but at least DKK 100,000, so that we ensure that there is also the financial volume of the Guarantee Fund which can ensure that bankruptcies occur, there is money to cover up so that the policy holders are guaranteed. It can of course be said that in isolation it is really, really fine, and so is it, but there is just one element that we need to be aware that it does not then make it easier for foreign insurance companies to establish themselves in Denmark. Normally we are in favour of making it as easy as possible for companies to set up offices and businesses in Denmark; it promotes competition and benefits consumers. We are making this a little more difficult here, but I think the purpose is so sensible that it is quite okay. If you want to run an insurance business in Denmark, you have to pay the 50 DKK. per policy ensuring that there is a cover in the event of bankruptcy of the company. There is also a slight change in relation to the fact that in future the coverage of the Fund will cover only the activities of insurance companies in Denmark and that the coverage period will be extended for certain non-life insurance contracts which cannot be repeated in the event of the insolvency of the insurance company. These are, for example, change of ownership insurances that have been mentioned in the past. As I said, this is based on a concrete example that created great uncertainty for many homeowners and policy holders. We have responded to them through previous initiatives, and now we are taking care to eliminate the risk that similar situations may arise. This makes a great deal of sense, and of course we support it on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154603	Thank you. There were no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154617	After all, the previous rapporteurs have given ample account of the content of the law, and I can also just say that we in the Enhedslisten support this bill. It is a step in the right direction when it comes to ensuring transparency for customers that they know what kind of product they are buying and how they are covered. And under the rules in force in the European Union, it is as far as we can get in relation to getting as many foreign companies as possible to live up to the rules we have here in Denmark. After all, we would like to go further and make rules that were simply applicable to everyone. But it is a step in the right direction and it can ensure us against repeating some of the problems we saw in Gable Insurance. So, we should not have crawlers in the insurance market on the Danish market, and that is why it is positive. It can also be seen that the Consumer Council Think and practically all other consultation parties support the intention of the proposal. So we can support the proposal, and I should announce from the SF and from the Alternative that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154738	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154746	Thank you. The proposal here forces all non-life insurance companies operating in Denmark to be members of the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. After all, this is a relatively logical consequence of using the fund to cover when Gable Insurance went bankrupt. If you are not politically willing to leave people who have opted for insurance without cover to face the consequences in the event of bankruptcy, then you will have to enforce insurance with cover. It is, of course, an entirely untenable situation to be able to benefit from the Guarantee Fund without having contributed to it. In this light, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154830	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Take it easy; it's just going a little fast here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315154847	You get to faster than you just expected. We are here on the basis of the situation we experienced in 2016, with people who had taken out change of ownership insurance at Houseowners' Insurance, owned by Gable Insurance, who went bankrupt; so there were a lot of people • I think it was 26,000 people • with valueless change of ownership insurance. After all, we quickly got together and made an agreement to remedy the acute problem of this kind, but it is not enough to stop the accident; we must also ensure that it does not happen again. That is why today we have a very good legislative proposal, which is about including foreign companies operating in Denmark under the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. This is a lump sum of DKK 50. per policy you have in Denmark, and then a minimum amount of DKK 100,000, so you help build the fund's wealth. This also means that you are helping to pay if things go wrong and you again see bankruptcies for companies operating abroad. At the same time, the scope of the fund is being narrowed down, and this is something that we in the Radical Left think is very sensible. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155001	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beyer de Ryke. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155012	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here is intended to ensure that insured persons in Denmark have a secure legal position in the event that foreign insurance companies operating in Denmark go bankrupt, as we do, for example. I saw it in this case about Gable Insurance. We have previously dealt with legislative proposals that have secured the customers involved in Gable Insurance coverage through the fund, and we have also enabled foreign insurance companies to obtain cover through the fund. With the bill that we are now debating, we make it a requirement to be a member of the fund, whether you are based in Denmark or another EU country, if you are operating on the Danish market. In this way, Danish consumers will be better protected and it will be more transparent to be an insured person. Then there has been some discussion about whether it was 3 or 5 registered. I have noted here that it was 1%, but it must be 5 out of the 500 foreign insurance companies registered today. And in the remaining 99 percent. It can be said that the Danish consumer is faced with a rather opaque situation in relation to how to be covered in the event of bankruptcy. That is why we think it is a very good legislative proposal that creates some uniformity and greater transparency. It is certainly something that ensures greater security when you take out insurance, that you know that it is the same rules that apply. So, of course, we can support that from the conservative side. Then a framework will be set up for how to contribute to the fund as a foreign insurance company, so that the foreign companies will contribute to the fund, just as they will also benefit from it if they go bankrupt, and also in relation to how they can market themselves against Danish customers. So, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155202	Thank you. Secondly, I give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155210	I think the bill has been well received here today. I am pleased about that, because it is also intended to protect Danish policy holders if an insurance company goes bankrupt. The bill is designed to ensure that Danish policy holders are equally well covered, regardless of whether their insurance company is established in Denmark or another EU or EEA country. The need for an adjustment of the rules became very clear when Gable Insurance went bankrupt in autumn 2016, after which the company's Danish policy holders were without coverage. In concrete terms, the draft law requires all non-life insurance companies operating in Denmark to be members of the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. Last autumn a change of law was introduced which allowed foreign companies to become members of the fund. I already indicated at that time that a compulsory scheme is a good idea and that we should work towards ensuring that insured persons in Denmark have a guarantee scheme in their backs if their insurance company goes bankrupt even if the company is foreign. Now we take the next step and demand that if a non-life insurance company from another EU or EEA country wants to take out insurance in Denmark, it should be a member of the Guarantee Fund. With the bill, we ensure that all Danish insurers are members of the Guarantee Fund if they have taken out a consumer insurance for risks here in Denmark, regardless of where the EU insurance company comes from. The draft law also requires foreign members to contribute to the Guarantee Fund's assets. A contribution shall be paid to the Guarantee Fund when an insurance company becomes a member of the Fund. The one-off contribution will depend on the number of Danish policies, but will be at least DKK 100,000. The lump sum must be paid both by new Danish non-life insurance companies established after the entry into force of the law and by the EU or EEA non-life insurance companies which are now to be members of the Guarantee Fund. With the bill, we also change the coverage of the Guarantee Fund, so only damage in Denmark is covered. This means that the fund no longer covers the business of Danish non-life insurance companies in other EU or EEA countries. Here it will be up to a possible guarantee scheme in the country concerned to cover. As insurance companies get more cross-border activities, more and more companies offer insurance not only in Denmark but also abroad. It is therefore necessary to limit the coverage of the Guarantee Fund, otherwise the Fund will have to cover more and more risks abroad. A definition is also better consistent with the original objective of the Guarantee Fund, namely to ensure that Danish policy holders are covered by insurance contracts signed in Denmark. By contrast, if a Danish insurer has a property abroad or a car registered in a country outside Denmark and is insured through an insurance company based in Denmark, damage to the property or car will not be covered by the Danish Guarantee Fund if the insurance company goes bankrupt. Finally, the draft law extends the Guarantee Fund's coverage of claims under change of ownership insurance, building damage insurance and selling liability insurance to the entire life of the insurance. These assurances cannot be repeated and, by extending the coverage of the Guarantee Fund, we prevent policy holders from standing without insurance cover in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company. Thank you again for your comments. I will, of course, answer all possible questions during the committee procedure, which I look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155556	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, so thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155616	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315155641	Thank you. This is, after all, a bill arising from the agreement we made in the autumn on cooperative housing and more robust cooperative housing associations, and it is from the Social Democrats' point of view a very good agreement and a very good bill, which we believe will help to secure the future of the cooperative housing sector and to ensure that we will see fewer of the unfortunate cases of bankrupt cooperative housing associations, especially in the metropolitan area. The cooperative housing associations that are being formed will be more robust and, compared to the cooperative housing associations that have unfortunately been formed on an uncertain basis, there will be clear rules on how to deal with them. What is most crucial in the Social Democratic Bill is the possibility of limiting the pricing of value assessments. It means a great deal to us that a fixed standard is made for how to price cohabitants and that the proposal that has come from the Danish Real estate association will apply. This will make it no longer possible for a small group of valuers to offer very high valuations and thereby tempt a current resident group to set the price very high, which will, of course, most often go beyond those who will subsequently be forced to put the assessment within the applicable rules, and therefore there will be some people who will get into trouble. We also believe in principle in the Social Democratic Party that cooperative housing is a form of housing which must lie somewhere between a owner's residence and a tenant's residence, which is why it is also important for us that prices are not set free and that cooperative housing is not equated with owner's housing. That is actually what matters most to us. Then there are some elements in this bill, including maintenance plans. Here we think it is important to make them as 15-year-olds at the foundation, so that we know what the burden is and so that we avoid speculation. We also believe that it is important that the possibility of financing the creation of a cooperative housing association should be changed so that it is not possible to take out purely debt-free loans. We believe that it is important to establish a cooperative housing association, and we believe that it is in line with the cooperative housing idea that you also deduct from the loans you take from the cooperative housing association. So we also think it is central that the foundation is done with the aim that you can also pay off the cooperative housing association you have formed. We believe that this is a relevant objection to be raised by ABF in this context, in relation to when the waiting time is measured in order to redeploy the loans. We think that this should be considered further. Then there's the big discussion in this proposal, and it's Section 4 of the Cooperative Housing Act which deals with what happens to those who live in a bankrupt cooperative housing association and what rent they should be paid to. There we see it as a compromise in the debate that has been that we have chosen to make a six-year period in which people have to pay the same thing that they have paid on average over the last four years, and of course, as we can see in the consultation answers, there is a very great deal of disagreement about that. On the one hand, there is a group of people who believe that from the outset a relatively low-cost rent should be reduced, and then on the other hand there are those who represent the owners of these dwellings who believe that from the beginning and in general they should be able to set the rent free. We actually think it's very good that you're in the middle of something like that. In some places, there has been a very heated debate about this, among other things. in the social media and in the press, and we believe that the model proposed by the Ministry of Business and Industry with adding an addition to the rental, so that we do not necessarily create another new rental method, is really healthy, and we support that. So on the whole, Social Democracy backs the proposal and we look forward to seeing some more robust cooperative associations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160111	Thank you very much, sir. Kaare Dybvad, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. I forgot to say anything). The rapporteur may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160117	I'm sorry. I should like to say that I welcome the Radical Left and say that they are in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160123	Thank you so much for that service information. Welcome to sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160134	The Danish People's Party's housing rapporteur, Per Nørhave, has unfortunately, like so many others, been hit by the flu and has no opportunity to be here today, and I have promised to read his rapporteur's speech, although I am very much opposed to reading speeches to others, but someone has to do so. That's the way it is. L 177 is, after all, a proposal to amend the cooperative housing law. It is the implementation of an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left from November 2017. The intention of the bill is that newly established cooperative housing associations should be more robust and viable in economic terms to be able to cope. In the past, not least in the context of the crisis, which started 10 years ago or so, there have been examples of start-ups starting on an excessively slender economic basis. If the cooperative housing sector is to continue to be a possible form of housing, it requires the creation of new cooperative housing associations to be built on a sound basis which will ensure the future viability of the association. In this way, the bill should help to ensure that the cooperative housing form will continue to contribute to the diversity of housing offers in Denmark. At the same time, there will be a tightening of the requirements for the founding budgets, which will in future cover a period of at least 15 years compared with the current ten years. Not only should the cooperative housing association be able to provide greater own-funding in the formation of the association via the shareholders, but it should also be possible to make own-payment, which should help to ensure the cooperative association and the individual shareholder a good foundation to start on. According to the draft law, it is recommended at the same time that compulsory maintenance plans be introduced for the properties. These plans are to be revised on a regular basis and to take 15 years into the future. This in turn helps to ensure that a cooperative housing association is established on as solid a financial basis as possible, not only in a start-up phase, but also in the years after. It is important for most people that in future they also know how much their housing costs are. This should help inform the shareholders of the costs that may be likely to be incurred in the association for the next 15 years. Rules shall be laid down for value assessments. We in the Danish People's Party think this is really important, and requirements must be laid down as to which groups of people can carry out these value assessments. This is a proposal that should help the cooperative housing associations always build on a robust economic basis and help to provide the shareholders with an insight on as enlightened a basis as possible. As has been said, it is a matter of conciliation and the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160436	Thank you. A new service provision: it is no duty to give your rapporteur's speech, it is a right you have. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315160449	Thank you. There have been some examples of poorly run cooperative housing associations, cooperative housing associations, which were probably formed on a not very robust basis, and this has had major consequences for a number of residents of the cooperative housing associations concerned. This was an unsustainable situation, and a working group was set up by the Minister of Business at the beginning of 2017, which later made a number of recommendations which led to a broad political agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party in November. It is quite reasonable that there is broad political support for the rules governing an important form of housing in Denmark as cohabitants. So the proposal that we have before us translates that agreement, and it basically aims to ensure a more secure and more robust cooperative housing market with better conditions, especially when new associations are established. The proposal thus supports a flexible housing market where there is freedom of choice, where there is trust between the parties, and this is a key issue, because buying a dwelling or obtaining a cooperative residence certificate and thus the right to live in a cooperative housing association are very important decisions for each and every family, both financially and personally. So it makes good sense, of course, that we get updated the requirements that are needed when you set up a cooperative housing association. At the risk of repeating the previous rapporteurs, I shall try to be brief. Up to now, maintenance plans have been required to be drawn up only for 10 years. This will be extended so that there will be maintenance plans and a foundation budget for the first 15 years of the life of a new cooperative housing association. It makes very good sense for you to have a slightly longer perspective, especially in view of the fact that if there are non-payment loans, they run for 10 years, and it would of course be very sad if you have set up a cooperative housing association on a high level of mortgage-free loans and then postponed some maintenance costs, because then it will be really, really expensive this year 11. It is therefore quite reasonable to increase the period to 15 years. We also limit the proportion of loans that finance the cooperative housing association, which can be unpaid. This, of course, also helps to ensure a more robust economy in the cooperative when the debts of the association are repaid. A general clause is also introduced in relation to the work of the boards of directors, and it should provide more clarity as to the responsibilities and duties of the board of directors of the association. Then we extend the limitation period for advisory liability from 3 to 6 years. There is a general limitation period of 10 years from the date on which the advice has been carried out, but that is to say, the period one has when one discovers that there is something wrong and wants to make liability against counsellors is extended from 3 to 6 years. I would like to make it clear here that this is not necessarily a proposal that was on the list of the Left in the course of the negotiations. This is because it was not so many years ago that a very, very thorough work was carried out, a report which meant that we had uniform obsolescence rules in general, so that very different obsolescence rules were not applied, depending on the law in which they stood. We really think that was a quite sensible principle, but it has been a wish here, and when we negotiate, we have to listen to the wishes of different parties in order to get things into a higher unity. So we'll take that with us. As the Social Democratic rapporteur also mentioned: what are the rules if a cooperative housing association goes bankrupt? What, then, are the conditions that should apply to the former shareholder and now tenant? It has been a subject that has taken a great deal of heart, but I hope that we have found a quite reasonable balance. Finally, a legal basis is being introduced to lay down detailed rules for value assessment and, of course, there has been a great deal of discussion about this over time. So it is very sensible to ensure a uniform approach because it is implemented at the level of the Minister's announcement. So we will solve some problems and result in an agreement that will ensure more resilience around newly established cooperative housing associations. This is a very good idea, and that is why we support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161002	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. And then we welcome Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161016	Thank you. In the eyes of Enhedslisten, the residential form is a good one. It contains good elements for both the rental and owner housing form. The common ownership between the residents of the total property provides or, at least, has the historically cheaper housing and also makes it partly still away, a resident community and democracy and the possibility of active co-ownership. It is still a good alternative to owner-occupied housing to some extent, as the square meter price is still lower and therefore, especially in the big cities, ordinary employees and others with low incomes will be able to obtain a housing that is to pay, i.e. to the extent that the cooperative housing association's economy is healthy. Unfortunately, we have seen a marked increase in housing prices in general, and this has also affected the cooperative housing sector, especially in large cities. This has meant that if you look at only today in relation to 20 years ago, you can see that we are faced with a situation in which cooperative housing does not in the same way constitute a real alternative for many employees in the low part of the pay scale, because prices, due to the pressure on the housing market, have risen and, of course, also because of the pricing of the forms of borrowing carried out by the bourgeois government in the 00s. However, what we are discussing today are some concrete measures which, in our view, are far-reaching and which can help to improve the current situation in the cooperative housing sector. We would like to see more cohabitation units being built or more properties being taken over as cohabitation units, and that is why we must also be careful in relation to rules which restrict the possibility of creating new cooperatives. In relation to the limitation of repayment-free loans and this waiting period, you might also ask yourself what this means for the possibility of creating new cooperative housing associations. Therefore, it will also be nice to have an overview of how many housing associations have not complied with the proposed rules in the last few years. But again we are immediately in favour of the measure. However, with regard to the proposal to fix rents in connection with the transition from a shareholder to a tenant, we believe that the proposal is moving in the wrong direction, in other words that it should not be subject to the general rules on rentals. It is very good to clarify the rules, but there are already sensible provisions in the Housing Regulation Act on cost-related rents, and they think Enhedslisten should also apply in this case. In relation to the value assessments, we are really, really happy that there is tightening up. To put it mildly, it has been a crazy development that has been, a crazy market where it has been the case that you have been able to shop between different valuers to push up the co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co- Of course, this is not nice and, of course, it should not be so. The cooperative housing association should preferably be for those who live in it and not for those who move out of it. So it is good that the requirements for valuers are being tightened up. We would like to see this opportunity completely phased out with valuers, not least when we get a well-functioning public property assessment here in the coming years. It is not certain that it will mean lower assessments, but one can at least hope that there will be greater transparency. We can also support the intention of greater transparency in cooperative housing associations, and we welcome the fact that certain key information is required at general meetings. The proposal for boards and board members can also be positive, but one can of course be concerned whether it will mean that some of the voluntary forces, who are lifting the tasks in these associations, will be frightened away from doing so. We would not want to end up in a situation where it is difficult to recruit members to the board, but again it is something that can be discussed in committee, so that there is a proper balance in these rules. So all in all, this is a bill that is moving in the right direction compared to today, and therefore Enhedslisten can also support it. We look forward to the committee reading. And I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they are sceptical about the proposal. However, I have not been told why.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161524	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, and warm welcome to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161531	Thank you. The proposal here translates the agreement on robust cooperative housing. The proposal ensures, inter alia, that cooperative housing associations must be economically viable when they are established, that the possibility of repayment-free loans is limited and that the rules on value-based valuations are clarified. In the context of the financial crisis, we saw that many were equally clever in relation to the financing of cooperatives. Small amounts of money were shot in and the values pumped up using shady valuers. There were examples of gambling with swap loans, and we saw many cooperative housing associations in general where the economy was not in control. I think the best thing to do is to ensure a greater degree of market organisation of the cooperative housing market. One could, for example: allow cooperatives to transform into owners' associations, and even better we could abolish maximum prices, because then we would not have seen any of these bankruptcies at all. However, in order for the market to function, it requires the seller and buyer to have information about what is being traded. Many of those who buy a cohabitation do not have a chance to know whether they have gone too far in a given value assessment or how uncertain the economy of a cooperative is. So I think it is a good thing to create transparent conditions so as to minimise the risk of people getting into a serious economic mess. And since we are part of the agreement, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161708	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161715	Thank you. I had some doubts about this at the end, because the rapporteur said that he wanted prices to be set free and that it should be possible to switch to owner-occupied housing so that it would no longer be cooperative housing. At the same time, however, we support the proposal, which, in all respects, limits the possibility of setting prices free, which makes it more difficult to raise prices and makes more restrictive and more comprehensive regulations on how to set the price. However, I understand that the rapporteur agrees with this proposal, so that a more restrictive pricing for co-operative housing should be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161756	Well, I'm gonna be honest with you and tell you that if we were the ones with the power, it probably wouldn't have looked like this. Then we would have got more market in, and we had, for example, more market in. the abolition of maximum prices. When we had the hearing about it and I asked about it and all the experts were sitting there... there was complete silence. And that was clearly an indication that, if you are an economist, you are well aware that the maximum prices are therefore this regulation of the market from an economic point of view is problematic. But that is what it is like to be in government; sometimes you go along with things that you don't think are going in the right direction. Those are the terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161843	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur recognises that this is moving in a more socialist direction. However, the rapporteur feels that there are particularly positive experiences from abroad, for example. from Oslo, where the cooperative housing associations have been set free? In other words, what has happened is that prices on the housing market have risen and that, in general, prices have also risen. Is that what you want if you had the power? And now you have the power because you are in government, but if you had the power in the form of 90 mandates, was that what you were really interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315161914	Yes, we want a much more free residential market. After all, the social democratic governance of Copenhagen has been counterproductive in many areas. In other words, special requirements have been imposed on the size of the dwellings, reduced the supply of small, affordable housing, too few building sites have been offered and thus kept the supply of housing down, which has pushed prices up so that such a classic insider/outsider problem is present. So the socialist housing policy, which we have in Denmark and which the rapporteur himself recognises, poses a lot of problems. It hasn't been good. I am in favour of a liberal housing market where supply and demand can be adapted to each other, because there are plenty of hidden costs of the opposite and lots of injustices by the opposite. I think that is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162017	Let us remember that the second brief remark is only in 30 seconds. Thank you for your contribution. Joachim B. Olsen. Then we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Some will ask where the Radicals and the SF went, but the SF and the Radicals did not want to use their rapporteur's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162042	Thank you. The aim of the bill, which we are dealing with here, is to implement a series of initiatives in the area of cooperative housing, which will ensure that the cooperative housing associations become more robust economically, so that in future we avoid some of the cases we have had in the past on distressed and bankrupt cooperative housing associations. The bill is also the implementation of an agreement made by a wide range of parties in the Folketing on the basis of the recommendations of the Working Group of the Ministry of Industry. There we have agreed to implement a number of initiatives. Common to the initiatives is that they should help to strengthen the economic resilience of the associations. The first thing to be introduced is to tighten up the requirements for the formation of cooperative housing associations, so that more demands are made on the foundation budget and maintenance plan, so that they have to last for 15 years as opposed to 10 years today. In addition, the requirements for the use by associations of repayment-free loans and the requirements for own financing are being tightened up. All of this helps to create a better and more healthy economy for the associations, both in connection with the foundation, but of course also in the longer term, in that the demand for the duration of the budget is also increased. Then I would like to mention the value assessment initiative, because the assessments are, after all, one of the key issues in determining the price of shares and financing and refinancing. That is why, of course, there must also be a valuer who has a knowledge of the pricing and market developments of rental property, which the cooperative housing associations must be assessed on the basis of, so it is obviously some of the things that have very major consequences if the assessment is made imprecise or wrong. That is why I think it is very sensible for more clear rules to be laid down on training requirements and so on. In connection with this. All in all, however, we think it is sensible to create more robust, newly established cooperative housing associations, so that we avoid these challenges that we have seen in the past with cooperative housing associations. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162305	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. And then we've come to the Minister of Business. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162314	Thank you for your many positive comments. The bill implements the actions of the broad political agreement in the cooperative housing area concluded between the government, S, DF and Radical in November last year. It is an agreement that contains good measures that, overall, should contribute to the promotion of a more robust cooperative housing sector. The aim of the bill is to create a stable framework for cooperative housing associations so that healthy and viable cooperative housing associations can be established only in the future. More stable framework contributes to the security of both current and future shareholders by living in a cooperative housing association. As a form of housing, cooperatives are a good alternative to citizens who do not want to rent or own. The bill thus contributes not only to security, flexibility and choice for the shareholders; the bill also contributes to a varied housing offer in Denmark. The draft law lays down basic requirements for the formation of cooperative housing associations, so that they are formed on a viable basis. For example, the limitation of the possibility of obtaining repayment-free loans helps to ensure that the debt of the cooperative housing associations is repaid, so as to build up a resilience against fluctuations in the property value or unforeseen maintenance costs. The bill also clarifies what the board's tasks and responsibilities are, so that the day-to-day operation of the cooperative housing association is maintained. The draft law also provides for detailed rules on valuations. I will use the legal basis to raise the industry's new strict norm and guidance for valuer ratings to the level of announcement. This will mean that all valuers must follow industry standards and guidance. In this way, the uncertainty that has existed for market players and greater security for shareholders will be brought to the fore. Then the bill clarifies the conditions to which a shareholder is transferred as a tenant in the future, hopefully in rare cases where a cooperative housing association should go bankrupt. The bill thus gets around well and contains elements that regulate the cooperative housing association throughout its existence. It is my clear view that with this bill we ensure more robust cooperative housing associations so that we can maintain a varied supply of housing in Denmark. And in those words, I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162547	Thank you, Minister. No one was praying for short remarks, so we are about to end the debate. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162610	The negotiations have been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162640	Thank you for that, President. As the President has just mentioned, this is a draft law which contains edits and changes to no less than three different laws. In other words, it is kind of a collection in the field of health of some things that need to be adjusted and addressed. The first point of the draft law here concerns the granting of an authorisation for osteopaths. Osteopater is a professional group working in the health sector. Osteopaths examine and prevent dysfunctions throughout the body and treat joints, muscles, connective tissue, vessels and nerves with osteopathic manipulative techniques to normalize the body's functions. I mention this merely to give a picture of what osteopaths are. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is quite right to give an authorisation here, also because the osteopaths are working with things in the body that can lead to a risk to patients, and therefore it is quite right that it should be put into a fixed framework with an authorisation. This is a framework which will also mean that certain training requirements are laid down, that there are requirements for supervision of the work of the osteopaths and that, of course, their professional work can also be complained about. There is one point on which we in the Social Democratic Party have reservations, and that is the same thing that the Medical Association has also expressed in their response to the hearing. It is a reservation that osteopaths must also be able to manipulate the spine. This is a discussion we have had in the past in Parliament, where the Social Democrats also expressed their reservations about it. The second point of this draft law is that for dentists, oral surgeons and jaw surgeons employed in public hospitals, they must be corrected in relation to their area of activity, so that in future they will not have to work under the authority of a doctor's delegation, but can do so on their own professional judgement. It is simply because this area has developed over the years, and therefore there is now a need for clarification. The third element of the bill concerns rules for the detention of inhabited somatic patients. It is also an area where we have recently made new laws, and it has then been discovered that there are simply some directly incorrect references to the conditions of the law so that the law cannot actually be fulfilled. That is why it is quite right for the Ministry of Health to have these things adjusted as quickly as possible, and that is what is happening now. In other words, the Social Democratic Party can support these three elements of the bill, and I have promised to say from my colleague from the Radical Left, who has been prevented because of negotiations in another ministry, that they also support the bill as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315162957	It is we who say thank you and we welcome Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315163004	A little over a year ago, the Danish People's Party tabled an amendment to a bill that we should authorise osteopaths, but at that time they were not ready for it. But the Minister promised to look at it and work on the proposal. I would like to congratulate the Minister on that, that is to say the Minister has followed it up one hundred per cent and now ensures that osteopaths are approved. It is not always the case with agreements that are hoped for when we enter into them in this Chamber, so thank you once again for having worked very well together on this, so we now see a legislative proposal in this area. Many people probably don't know what a osteopath is, I certainly didn't know that a few years ago, and some people think it has something to do with cheese, but it hasn't. When I was injured myself and needed help in health care, I was allowed to try osteopathy myself, because as the health rapporteur, some people sometimes get advice from some people, and some people said that I should try such an osteopath. At least I had it tested myself and had a talk about what it was all about. Osteopathy is a manual profession. It is recognised and authorised in eight European countries, including England, France, Finland, Iceland and Switzerland, and most osteopaths have read cheeseopathy part-time over 5 years, provided they are physiotherapists, or they have read osteopathy as a full-time training in countries where osteopathy is already recognised and authorised. Having said that, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is important to provide citizens with a knowledge of who has taken the right education, so that we ensure the best quality, whether it is self-paid or publicly paid. We know that the web is being searched around, and today the web search may lead to some suggestions, on the basis that an ad has been paid for, and then it can be difficult to find out who has the best education. That is one of the reasons why we think authorisation is extremely important, in other words for not harming people, but instead helping them. We also want more of our health professionals to be authorized, and here I would just like to mention pharmacists, chemists, paramedics and acupuncturers. In relation to the last with acupuncturers, we are very pleased that the Minister has removed the proposal for medically-qualified acupuncture from this proposal, but we will also be looking forward to working on the area, as we need to ensure the best help for our citizens. Another part of the proposal is to extend the specialist dental, oral and jaw surgery field, so that their field of activity also includes breakthroughs in skin and the conduct of operations in a larger area than is currently the case. In connection with breakthroughs of skin, it is important because you can then enter from the cheek side instead of having to enter through the mouth. The last part of the proposal is a written correction, as the rapporteur before me put it, in the proposal on coercion. We warmly support the proposals and look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315163339	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315163348	Today we are discussing a three-part bill. Firstly, it is a licensing system for osteopaths, then it is an extension of the field of activity of dentists, and, last but not least, the draft law makes a false reference to the conditions of the law on the use of coercion in the somatic treatment of permanent incapacity. I must be honest and admit that until a few years ago I had no idea what professionalism a osteopath possesses. But fortunately I have become wiser, and I now understand that the work of osteopaths is a bit like the work of both chiropractors and physiotherapists, but without being quite the same. Osteopaths are in close contact with patients, and for us in the Left, patient safety is crucial. With an authorisation system, we first and foremost create greater security for patients. Danish patients should be able to take care of a osteopath and know that the skills are in order, just as they should know that there is an opportunity to seek compensation for the patient replacement scheme in case there is an error in the treatment. An authorisation is required, and this means that the Patient Safety Management Board will supervise. The training for osteopathism differs from the traditional licensing courses we have in Denmark, such as: the training for physiotherapist or nurse, doctor or chiropractor because there is no Danish education. The idea is that candidates for osteopatautorisation must have an educational background similar to a professional bachelor's degree programme. And that corresponds to the level of a physiotherapist. In addition, a minimum of 1,000 hours of clinical training in osteopathy will be required as a condition for obtaining authorisation. So a license like osteopath isn't something you sleep on. Nor do you sleep in special training as a dental, oral and jaw surgeon. Dental, oral and jaw surgery is a highly specialised field of expertise. Therefore, it makes good sense that this particular specialist group with this bill will have the opportunity to perform reconstructive jaw surgery as a result of malformations or trauma to the facial skeleton. It may also be surgical treatment after e.g. a cancer in the head and neck region. As is the case today, this kind of surgery is being carried out on the delegation of a doctor, and that is completely unnecessary. Danish jaw surgeons are extremely talented, and in my time as a clinic assistant I have seen many examples of how jaw surgeons can conjure and recreate facial forms and structures that you hardly think are possible. Last but not least, this bill proposes an amendment to the law on the use of coercion in the somatic treatment of patients with permanent disability. The change is necessary as an error in the law means that the conditions for detention of patients who are not forced into hospital cannot be met. In the last session we discussed L 185 on the use of coercion by somatic treatment of permanent inhabile, and with the bill, which was adopted with broad support from the parties of the Folketing, we wanted to change the rules at that time. The rules meant that a doctor or dentist could not treat a permanently incompetent person who either in words or in deeds opposed the treatment, and this meant and still means that some citizens do not receive the treatment they obviously need. I said at the time in my speech that it sounds brutal that the law in hand can be enforced, but if we think about caring for the patient, it makes sense. It is not care to let an elderly dement person walk around with a broken hip after a fall, and it is not care to let a mentally handicapped person walk around with a tooth abscess, like fluids with inflammation, and it is not care to leave any people in the lurch and not let them get treatment for obvious painful or acute disorders. And I'm still of the same opinion. Therefore, it is also important for patients that the error be corrected so that the law on the use of coercion in the somatic treatment of permanent inhabile works as intended. This means, in particular, that a head doctor or doctor may decide to withhold or return a permanent inhabilical patient who is not forced into hospital if the patient's guardian or immediate relatives so agree. We must take care of Danish patients, both those who can take care of themselves and those who, for one reason or another, cannot take care of themselves. Treatment is care, and we all deserve it when it is needed. The Left can support the bill as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315163822	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann and welcome Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315163831	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, I can start by saying that we can also support the legislative proposal that is here. My colleague has, of course, explained the content very well, and I would like to make a few comments on a few of the points contained in the draft law. Firstly, I also think it is very positive that osteopaths can now be authorised. This means that we can ensure a high level of professionalism through the requirements for which training is to be provided. This also means that patients who go to a osteopath can have a number of rights, such as: in relation to complaints about the treatment and also to compensation in the public system. I think that this is a fine decision following on from the decision we have taken in the past to amend the law so that it is not only chiropractors who can perform manipulation treatment. It was, moreover, an adjustment of the legislation, one might say, to the reality as there is, because we know that both osteopaths that we are talking about here today, physiotherapists, body-sds therapists, masseurs and others have actually been doing manipulation treatment for many years. Mrs Liselott Blixt raised a broader debate on health care authorisation and mentioned a number of other professional groups that are not authorised today, and I think that this is a good opportunity to say that I think it would be wise if we looked at the picture together. What exactly does it look like out there? Why is it that there are some groups in our healthcare system that are a fully integrated part? Many of them are also publicly paid courses which play an important role in our health care, but which do not yet have a licence. So a call to the Minister to make such a survey so that we can have a comprehensive discussion of this, I think is appropriate. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister for listening to the many hearings which have called on the Minister to play a part of the original bill, which concerned acupuncturers' ability to perform acupuncture on the chest, out of the bill and instead look again at that area, and I am at least ready on behalf of the Enhedslisten to discuss how we can both ensure patient safety, but also ensure that there will continue to be an opportunity to have acupuncture in Denmark. In relation to the other two elements of the bill, we can support the fact that we as a specialist dental practitioner should be able to extend our area of activity, and the last part, which is about correcting an error in a previous law, we can also support this, and I am well aware that we did not support the original law, but it should not prevent us from supporting the correction of an error that occurred in the original draft law. So those were the comments on behalf of the Enhedslisten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164147	Thank you very much, and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164156	Thank you. I will start with one of the points that have been taken out of the original legislative proposal. I think it is very positive that consultation responses and input from the actors involved are being listened to. That is why the proposal on regulating acupuncture on the chest has been withdrawn from this proposal so that we can work on it and hopefully find a better solution. So there are three proposals to be considered today. It has been a wish from Danish osteopaths to be authorized, and this request is met with this bill, which is just proposing the approval of the osteopaths. This means that in future they will be subject to the general obligations of the other groups of authorised healthcare professionals and that patients treated by authorised osteopaths will be allowed to complain about the treatment during possible mistreatment. It is then proposed that the field of activity of dentists should be extended so that dentists can carry out dental surgery without having to work under the delegation of doctors. It is a proposal that means less bureaucracy, without compromising patient safety, as dentists are currently carrying out and trained to carry out highly specialised treatments. The third proposal is a correction of a wrong reference in a previous law on the detention of inhabile somatic patients. Detention and coercion are certainly not liberal values, but in this context it is a measure which is very much in demand by patients and relatives who must otherwise see that their loved ones cannot get the help they really need to avoid severe suffering and perhaps death. I firmly believe that we should listen to this. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164354	Thank you very much, and welcome to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164402	As mentioned above, L 170 consists of three parts. It proposes the introduction of an authorisation system for osteopaths and, as part of this, proposes the protection of the title of osteopath and reserves the right of authorised osteopaths to perform manipulation treatment of the vertebral column. In addition, the applicant for authorisation as osteopath must comply with certain training requirements. Those who are authorised will be subject to the general obligations applicable to other groups of authorised healthcare professionals. In addition, they will be supervised by the Board of Patient Safety. It is also proposed that it be possible for patients treated by authorised osteopaths to complain about treatment to the Disciplinary Board of the Health Service and to seek compensation under the Patient Compensation Scheme. In the alternative, we are in favour of alternative treatment, that is to say treatment, which constitutes alternatives to the medical and conventional treatment methods, and therefore we are very sympathetic to the granting of authorisation for osteopaths. A osteopath DO is a 5-year training course, and a osteopath works with the whole body and treats muscles, joints and organs with his hands. So we are very positive about that part of the proposal, and we are also positive about the other two parts. The second part is, of course, about extending the field of activity of dentists. It is not appropriate for a professional group to carry out treatments which they are competent to carry out on a delegation from another professional group. So we are also positive about that part of the bill. The last part is about correcting a technical error in the original law, and we have no objection to that, so with those comments the alternative can support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164616	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments, and we therefore move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164626	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, this draft law will deal with issues as diverse as extending the self-employed activities of dentists, authorizing osteopaths and forced treatment of permanent inhabiles. I have mentioned earlier and I say it again again that I think it is a bad thing to put forward legislative proposals that contain such different provisions as are the case here. However, the SF acknowledges that an error in the health law's provision on the treatment of patients with a permanent disability is corrected so that the legislation in this very sensitive area is both given the necessary flexibility and formulated so that it can be understood correctly. We therefore have no comment to make on that part of the bill. The SF also welcomes the fact that the company of specialist dental practitioners is regulated in the legislation to adapt it to the actual reality. Self-employed competence in the field of surgery must, of course, also be recognised in terms of legislation. SF therefore also has no further comments on that part of the bill. And yet, in the SF, we also believe that it makes sense to draw attention to a few comments in the consultation answers, which, although they do not concern the activities of the specialist dental practitioners. However, both nurses and dental practitioners have pointed out that there could also be a need, in relation to other disciplines, to adapt the law on authorisation to the actual reality. I could add here that there is a need to look at the actual company for social and health assistants or for ergotherapists. And there could certainly be several disciplines that might need an update of their business areas. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Health, in his comments on the hearing answer, actually recognises that there may be a need to look at the activities of other professional groups, so, like the position of Enhedslisten, there must also be a call from the SF to continue working on it. The third part of the bill is about something quite third, namely authorisation for osteopaths. This is not the first time in history that an alternative form of treatment is recognised in the Health Act and approved. The benefits for patients are clear, since authorisation not only ensures that treatment is covered by the Patient Complaints Authority's rules for patients' replacements, but also guarantees that treatment is recognised. It certainly speaks in favour of recognising the proposal for authorisation for osteopaths. In the same way, it is in itself a quality assurance that it is the Danish Health Authority which issues the authorization to a particular subject area. The alternative, after all, is that it is the subject itself that approves itself. The SF therefore votes in favour of the overall draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164908	Thank you very much. Welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315164920	Thank you very much. This bill deals with the authorisation of osteopaths, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned. It is also an extension of the powers of dentists and a correction to the bill on the detention of inhabile somatic patients. This is a small collection of important measures. We will ensure that patients in a osteopath improve their conditions while at the same time ensuring that we make demands on the registered osteopaths. We ensure that dental, oral and jaw surgery is carried out by the most competent experts without wasting medical resources. Finally, we are making sure that a small misreference is made in the legislation on the detention of inhabited somatic patients. These are three measures which the Conservative People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315165017	Thank you very much. Then we've come to the Minister of Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315165026	Thank you for your comments on the draft law, which I really do not need to repeat. It's nice to be able to come at the end, so you don't have to tell them either what osteopaths are doing or what it means for the jaw surgeons and specialist dentists in dental, oral and jaw surgery that they are now allowed to perform specialised operations independently and without the need for a doctor. That is why I would just like to say that I think, in many ways, that this is also an expression of the need for our legislation in this area to keep up with time and development, both in relation to the skills that are being built up, in terms of new forms of training, in terms of patient safety in this area, but it must also be ensured that when we can see a business area moving in different areas and specialisation, we will suddenly find ourselves in a very weird situation, because, as a highly specialised dentist, we find that we are subject to a doctor rather than being able to have an independent business area, we must, of course, be able to adapt the law. Similarly, in the area of osteopathic disease, where I welcome the support that has been given, both here in the Chamber, but also from the association Danske Osteopathater, in relation to the fact that we are now getting an authorisation system through. And, as Mrs Liselott Blixt also said, this is a matter which many parties, not least the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur, have devoted a great deal of effort to highlighting and drawing the attention of us, that is to say, what opportunities and perspectives lie in the fact that in Denmark too we are getting an update of the legislation in this area and getting a licensing system for the osteopaths, so that we are just reaching a level where we do not believe that it is about cheese, as the rapporteur said, but about a very good qualified treatment for some patients who then come into safer hands and frameworks, because we are now setting up a system of authorisation which both gives them access to complaints, but also ensures that if you walk in the door of a health care professional who has an osteopath, you are sure what it is for a level to be lived up to by the health professional. Some have also said that there is one element that has been taken out. I think that is also important to say. When we can see from the consultation answers that there is a broad recognition that we need to ensure patient safety when we speak acupuncture in the breast region, then we have also listened that the model that was immediately professionally set may not be the right one, that then we have given ourselves time for the patient safety agency to find the right model. I think it is worth noting that, from the point of view of the hearings, there is basically support for tightening up in this area, also in the light of some tragic cases which, in the most serious cases, have led to death due to punctured lungs due to needle acupuncture in the chest region. That is why it is important to say from my side too that this is not, of course, a question of the fact that then attention will disappear from this area where we need to ensure patient safety. We just have to do it the right way. I am, of course, at the disposal of any questions that may be raised and hope that we can have a good committee dealing with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315165356	Thank you very much to the Minister. No more of you have asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly, and if none of you object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315165413	This agenda has also made its mark in terms of gender equality in the Folketing. It is only a week ago that it was 8 March, and it is almost full of it, because a very, very large proportion of the rapporteurs today are women. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health. It is a motion for a resolution, so that is why the Minister is first allowed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315165510	Thank you, and thank you. I was just confused for a moment about whether it was the question we had first because one of the questioners appeared, but B 59 is, after all, a resolution tabled by the SF which deals with medicines-free treatment in psychiatric medicine. There is no doubt that efforts for people with mental illness are very high on this government's agenda, and so I would also like to reiterate what I stated in this Chamber in connection with the debate on Question F 4 on a long-term plan for psychiatry last December, namely that there is a need to prioritise psychiatry in Denmark. That is why the government, together with the Danish People's Party, agreed with the adoption text of F4 to draw up a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry, in other words a new action plan for the psychiatric field, which I actually saw other parties also support, albeit not supported by the adoption, also in the light of the review of psychiatry which I, as Minister and the government, launched last year. For people with mental disorders, as well as people with somatic disorders, a coherent effort of high and uniform quality must be offered. I would also like to start by stating that I am certainly in favour of psychiatry being able to offer patients a variety of interventions, including interventions that are not about medicine, but I do not see it as an ideal that patients should be entitled to medicines-free treatment in a medicine-free department. On the other hand, it is a fundamental right that all patients should be involved and consulted and that the necessary efforts should be made. And what suits the individual and what is necessarily the right one month is not necessarily the right one month later. There has to be an individual organisation of the efforts being made in our treatment system, including in psychiatry. I also think it is extremely important to distinguish between drug-free treatment, which encounters skepticism in the professional environments in relation to talking about entire drug-free departments, and then having additional offers for medicine in the psychiatric system. For me, the central issue is, of course, to a large extent that, with patient involvement, attention should also be paid to what is important for the patient, what is the patient's individual needs and resources, which should be the starting point for the patient's course. Decisions about the patient or the patient's treatment should be taken with the patient to a large extent, and I think that is also well established in the chapter of the Health Act on patient involvement. Of course, this is also true in psychiatry, where we can see and also hear that there are patients who sometimes demand more involvement and also demand some treatment methods that they do not feel they meet adequately. It can also be said that this principle applies both to the somatics and to psychiatry, i.e. that the health care system is there for patients and must therefore also be based on what creates value for the patient. This requires real and active involvement, and fortunately over a number of years there has also been an increasing focus on patients' self-determination and involvement in treatment, including in the psychiatric area. I am also pleased, if we look at the development of psychopharmaceutical consumption, that it is going the right way. The fact that in most cases medical treatment for mental disorders should not be the first choice and that there are a large number of alternatives to medical treatment is evidence of the increasing attention of doctors. At the same time, it is so important to remember that for some people with mental disorders, it may be especially those who need action in regional psychiatry, then medicine-free treatment is not the most effective or the most valuable offer. Therefore, allow me to give an insight into what I think there should be the starting point for the treatment in psychiatry, namely not to make it so square and so narrowly divided, but to have a nuanced approach to it, but also to have some nuanced options that can be adapted to the individual patient. We have a number of professional guides and guidelines that support the proper use of medicines and not least additional medicines, so in many cases it should also be clear that medicines are not the first choice and that additional offers must be there and are very beneficial to people with mental disorders. The Danish Health Authority states that in psychiatric practice the aim is to step up the treatment strategy and therefore also, depending on the severity of the mental illness and what we see out there, strongly recommends starting with advice, guidance, training of the patient in the disease, and then using nonmedical intervention, which can usually be either therapeutic based on evidence, or if it is not sufficient to evaluate the need for medical treatment in accordance with current guidelines and professional recommendations. In the psychiatry of children and young people, which we have also had the opportunity to discuss in consultation, nonmedical treatment is, in the vast majority of cases, the first choice. That is not to say that I am trying to paint such a beautiful painting, but I think that one should be careful not to talk about psychiatry and make psychiatry such a place where only medicines and pills are like what is happening. I do not think this is a good thing either for patients or for the reputation of psychiatry in general, nor do I think it is a fair picture of the psychiatry that we have, and also the many initiatives, attempts and efforts that are being made in the country to ensure that treatment offers more and more than just medical treatment. We have also seen it with the coining of the rate pool for drug-free trials in psychiatry, which was only translated into the second experiment. In the first attempt, no one even had a basis and a desire in their applications, as well as being part of the way in which the pool was set up, and therefore the question of drug-free treatment meets with a great deal of professional resistance. We could also see that in connection with the coining of that pool. The professional environments have raised the debate as to whether it is technically justifiable to reduce the medication for seriously ill people who need hospitalization in psychiatric conditions, and it has also been pointed out that medicines can often be an important supplement to other therapies and that medicines can be of crucial importance to the overall outcome of treatment. As far as Norwegian experience is concerned, the introduction of the medicines-free treatment services in Norway is only now being effectively put in place, even though it was launched politically in 2016. I also think it is worth noting that there has been such a long-standing debate between healthcare professionals and patients' associations in relation to what to do here, but unfortunately the experience and evidence in this area are scarce, and that is why the desire for a venture pool project that could help to give us some knowledge in Denmark is also coming. Nor has Norway been determined whether the drug-free departments are the long-term solution. Instead, drug-free departments have been defined as development projects, and therefore there is a national evaluation of medicines-free treatment in Norway. It is clear that this is also something that we must follow from Denmark both in the regions and also at the Danish Health Authority. There is no doubt that there are many places in our psychiatry where we need to do better. As I also began by saying, we need a psychiatry that involves the patient much more and also asks what is important in relation to the patient's course of treatment. This requires a strong organisational and also management focus and also an effort in this area to create the right framework for staff, to break up in some places with a culture and to listen to and involve the patient much more. As I said, it also requires attention to the culture that in some places may be in relation to what tools you use, and also a broader both investment and recognition of the alternatives to medicine. That's one of them. I also expect some of what we have allocated money to with the rate pool in several rounds, and I also expect with the economic agreement that we made as a government with the regions last year, when 1⁄2 billion was set aside. kr. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done. And if we look at our pool agreement, we set aside some 400 million. kr. More than 4 years to psychiatric treatment, and not least to some of the early interventions, where there is no focus on medicine, and also to avoid that so many special children and young people get acquainted with treatment psychiatric treatment. So the government cannot support the proposal to set aside separate funds to impose on the regions the establishment of drug-free treatment services in psychiatry. We do not believe that this is the right way to go, and we also believe it is important that the investment pool project for which we have allocated money jointly is allowed to be developed, that we evaluate it and that we take in the experience. And as I also started by saying, in 2018 we have a task ahead of us in order to make a long-term plan of action for psychiatry, where I have also asked the Danish Health Authority to make their professional recommendations this spring, and where there will also be an involvement of both the actors in the field and also the Danish Parliament in ensuring the development of psychiatry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170502	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170508	Thank you. After all, we are about to have a debate on this SF proposal, and I think it is important that we have a debate on as precise a basis as possible. I'm not reading this SF proposal as a matter of medicine-free section. Nor do I read it, as I think the Minister for Health said, as a right for patients to choose what treatment they receive. As I read it, it is a matter of ensuring that it is a tool or a tool that is on the shelf across the country, so that in the treatment you can also draw on other forms of treatment than medicine. And if that is the content of the proposal, I think it is important that this is also how we discuss it, in other words that we ensure that other forms of treatment than only medicines are available throughout the country. So I just want to know whether this is the same way that the minister reads the proposal, that is, that it is not really a medicine-free section, and that it is not a question of choosing, as a patient, what treatment you receive, but of ensuring that there are alternatives that you can draw on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170628	I can say that the way I read the proposal is that it is about choosing a strategy that is medicinal. If it is to be read in such a way that it is also about alternative therapies that do not include medicines, then it is very much happening in psychiatry today. I therefore welcome it if we can support it even more, and I think that is what we have done with a number of appropriations, including in the allocation we made with the regions last year in relation to the economic agreement, in other words, that the regions as operators should develop psychiatry. This applies both to halving the use of coercion by 2020, but it is also about investing, both the building investments we make in psychiatry, and other things. And if that's what this is all about, I don't understand the need for it, because that's what we're doing. So no, I don't read it that way that it's more solved. I read it as a matter of real medicine-free treatment as well as sections of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170723	In other words, what the proposal says is that it is important, among other things, for the proposers to state that the proposal should not be seen as an opposition to psychopharmaceuticals in general. The debate should not be about whether you are for or against medicine, but rather about ensuring that all relevant treatment offers are available for the patient. So as I read it, it's about prioritising it and making sure that we have the many tools that we know there's evidence of that having an effect for people with mental illness; that you can also actually pull on them out there. So I hope that, in this debate at least, we can clarify whether that is the content. Because in that case I hear the Minister of Health as a positive one that it should then we can discuss whether it is fully rolled out today; whether this problem has been resolved or whether we should prioritise the solution to it. In any case, I think it is important that we have a debate on the right basis, and so I read it in the way that it is about ensuring that these offers are available to therapists and patients out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170824	But these offers are, of course, if we talk about alternatives to medicine in such a broad way, available and have to be available. It is also part of the whole plan for the development of the new psychiatric hospitals, i.e. that there must be alternatives other than only medical treatment. I therefore think that this is a different discussion from what I read in the proposal. But the rapporteur can then elaborate on that. Then I would also say in relation to funding that if this is what you want to finance in relation to a long-term development of psychiatry, then I think you will fall short. Well, if this is about what kind of lines should be in relation to developing psychiatry, then I think it's much more natural to take it up as part of the discussion about the long-term plan of action for psychiatry that we are going to discuss here this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170914	It is precisely Mrs Trine Torp who has the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315170918	I am very pleased that Mrs Stine Brix mentioned that it is not actually the case that it should be read as medical-free departments, but that it is really about extending the palette of treatment options and ensuring that they are present everywhere. It may be that the Minister for Health says they are, but I just don't think that's what patients experience. In other words, just today there has been a study of patients from the regions which has been published and shows that far too many patients in psychiatry do not feel that they are benefiting from the treatment. So people do not get the treatment that is needed to get well or to get better, and there I think that a proposal like this is an attempt to create more treatment options so that people really get a treatment that they also experience as beneficial to them. So I just want to hear the Minister: now that I am going to elaborate this way, does the Minister still have a great deal of opposition to the proposal we have put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171026	Well, that depends entirely on what the rapporteur is saying now. I assume that it is the LUP figures that are being referred to, and they show to a large extent that there is a need for a long-term development plan for psychiatry; there is a need for us to set the political direction for some things as well. I do not read the figures in such a way that there is a need for people to be medically withdrawn or not to meet a medical offer at all. It's a combination of things, and it's important that our psychiatry can accommodate it. I just said in my introduction that I think we should be careful not to be too square in relation to the approach, i.e. whether it is one or the other. Offering medication also as a supplement to other treatment is an important part of much of our patient treatment in psychiatry and must be, and I very much see that it is in psychiatry today. So, if it is not because you want to have a discussion about completely medicines-free treatment, then perhaps I do not really understand why the proposal is being put forward as it stands here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171126	But it's actually not so squarely formulated. I think that if you read the proposal one more time, you can see that it is actually an attempt not to be square, an attempt to say that patients out there are very different. However, there are a great many patients who are unable to opt out of medicine, although it could benefit them either to step out of it or not to be in medical treatment at all because there are no alternatives. And these are the alternatives we want to create a wider range of. So I just want to know whether the Minister has shot it to the corner in relation to this further debate on a comprehensive action plan, or whether the Minister can today indicate that the government is also interested in extending the palette of alternatives to medical treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171218	We've expanded the palette, we're going to expand the palette. If you look at the construction of the new psychiatric hospitals, the palette is expanded by the way they are designed, both in terms of what activities can take place and in terms of how you can have other therapeutic approaches. We have in our psychiatry today a wide range of different treatments. I just made it clear in my introduction, and I will bear in mind that I think it is too narrow, like making it a either-or. It is a both- and for a very many patients, and it must be present in psychiatry. And I also very much experience that this is what you work with locally. There are also patients who very much need medical care because otherwise their condition will deteriorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171300	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we go to the rapporteurs, and now it's Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171311	Thank you, President. I would say to the authors and others that I do not think I have read the motion for a resolution here incorrectly. I think I have read it correctly, namely that this is about medicines-free treatment and not medical-free services. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very good that the SF is taking the initiative to focus not only on what is professional in psychiatry, but also to a large extent on what offers and opportunities there are for patients. There must be the right offers in psychiatry, they must be present. It should be the case that the patient receives the treatment that is precisely the best treatment for the individual patient. There are absolutely indispensable basic principles in our treatment system in Denmark, and they apply both in the somatics, and they also apply in psychiatry. It is the doctor, it is the psychiatrist who, in cooperation with the patient and possibly with the relatives, must always make a treatment plan where the patient's wishes are heard, meet with professionalism and information. It is important that we are supported by the patient's desire to recover in the best possible way, and that is, of course, what the doctor or psychiatrist must meet. When it comes to medicines as an element of treatment, it is always an individual assessment where the doctor's responsibility is, of course, to ensure that the treatment and use of medicines exactly comply with professional recommendations and guidelines that exist in this area, that the patient is informed of it, that a patient's consent for treatment is given or, as in this case, not to receive medical treatment. Although the doctor may recommend it, it is and it will be, and it must always be the patient who makes the decision. We are talking about something quite different if we are talking about really difficult, severely ill patients who cannot take care of themselves and where there is forced treatment. There must be no automatic in relation to medication being prescribed or prescribed. As I say, it must always be based on a professional assessment, it must be put up for the patient, it must be the best thing for the patient, where the patient is told what effect can be predicted from a medical treatment, but of course also which side effects can be expected. In all psychiatric treatment, the conversation is the most important tool. The patients referred to treatment in the treatment psychiatry, as the Minister said, the regional psychiatry, are often characterised by the fact that they are very ill. Therefore, there is often a need for both multidisciplinary treatment and a treatment which consists of different elements. The medicines-free methods are an important part of patient treatment and the prevention of possible relapses in psychiatric illness, and that is my impression, that is the impression of social democracy, even after we have been looking into it, that these are principles that are applied and offered in all regions. The medicines-free methods are a particularly important method to make use of when it is severely ill patients with really complicated disease cycles where the medical treatment is not sufficient and cannot stand alone. The methods are gentle, they are without side effects, and they also contribute to the commitment and responsibility of the individual patient, who is so important, in terms of improving the patient's health, thus enabling the treatment to take place on the patient's premises and making it possible to build up tools to tackle one's own disease. When we look at what are package treatment courses in all five regions, we see that investigation, non-medical treatment, medical treatment and focusing on coherence are what all five regions are building their psychiatric treatment packages on. When I say this here, it is in order to say that we in the Socialist Group do not see the need to focus on what is the aim of the resolution here, namely that the government should be required to ensure that medicines-free treatment services are established in the treatment psychiatry in all regions. Our impression is that we cannot therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, and it is primarily because we do not think it is necessary, and then the starting point of the psychiatry is, and it is, whether it is with or without medicine, that it always happens with informed consent. As I said before, it is an absolute principle, and therefore, if the patient says that the patient does not want to receive medical treatment and that offer must of course be there, it must of course be respected. We also have some scepticism about funding, but let that not be the main argument. I should like to return to the question of what offers the five regions offer to patients. There is, of course, a wealth of offers in relation to what one might say are cognitive therapies, which are on the shelf and which they use. As I said, the Socialists do not believe that the content of the resolution is needed here, and that is why we do not support it. I have promised to say from my colleague from the Radical Left who, on the basis of some discussions in another ministry, cannot be here that they do not support the motion for a resolution as it stands here either. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171944	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315171948	Thank you. I can, of course, very much agree with the rapporteur on all this about having proper professional judgements and informed consent from the patient. I am very much in agreement with that. Whether there is a need or not, it could at least be fine to try to identify what kind of offers there are. I think it was a year ago that a very large group of junior doctors and psychologists in children's and youth psychiatry in a joint discussion paper described how they actually often had to resort to medical treatment for children and young people because they could not provide some other treatment services. There are also other psychiatrists who have sometimes said that they think that medicine and psychopharmaceuticals became the first choice, which was like primary access to treatment. There is some picture with the hammer and nailed, that if you only have a hammer, you also have it with nails everywhere. So it also has a meaning in how to describe and professionally evaluate a sick person's suffering. I would like to ask the rapporteur just to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172105	Thank you very much. We must first state that there are very, very many patients who are treated in the treatment psychiatric system without receiving medical treatment. And that's good. You only need medication when it can be good for the patient, and the patient accepts it. I think the rapporteur is right to say that we need to be able to do so, and we have to ensure that the details of this are kept to a minimum. That is also why I praised and said that it is very good that we are having this debate, because everyone in this Chamber who is responsible for psychiatry knows that psychiatry is under pressure on capacity, primarily in terms of professional staff, and it is an accident that it is the situation in our welfare country. We know that in Slagelse there is a new psychiatric hospital with empty beds, empty wards, and it is certainly not because there are no patients to lay in those beds, but you do not have the professional staff to care for patients. That is why it may be true, as the rapporteur says, that in certain situations medical treatment may be resorted to in a discussion with the patient and with the consent of the patient and with the consent of the patient to what is being done. But the Socialist wish is, of course, to have those tools on the shelf. It may be conversation, it may be environmental therapy, it may be the development of masterring strategies, it may be crisis management, it may be physical activity, and it may be patient involvement, all the other parts, i.e. the non-medical therapy part, which we know all helps to support cognitive treatment. So I very much agree with the rapporteur that we need to focus on this. We will also help to ensure that we can have a proper coverage of this, but I think that both the rapporteur and I will be confronted with it when we visit psychiatric departments, that there are many who receive non-pharmacological treatment, but we also know how pressured the departments are in terms of staffing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172314	It is true that there are many who do not get psychopharmaceuticals in their treatment, but there are also very many who do. I also believe that the rapporteur is aware of the stories in the psychiatry of patients who experience that it may well be that they give consent, but that they do so because the doctor tells them that it is the treatment that can be offered to them and that you cannot offer them anything else. So it's actually about making sure there's really an alternative for these patients. And a large number of illnesses can actually be treated without psychopharmaceuticals if you have the right methods available.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172354	Yeah, but that's right. However, neither the rapporteur nor I should be the ones to say which patients should have what methods of treatment; it should be based on a professional assessment in our health services. However, I agree with the rapporteur when he stresses that professionals may sometimes feel compelled to offer different treatment to what they think was the ideal treatment because of capacity challenges. This is the challenge that is the greatest challenge for all of us who bear responsibility for health care, including for psychiatry. We have to solve that challenge, and from the Socialist side we say: cost what it wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172436	I am very grateful to the Social Democrat rapporteur for her very thorough presentation and to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172446	I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. I think this is a good opportunity to talk about the challenges we have in psychiatry. Having said that, I am of course surprised by the proposal. I am thinking of the fact that the proposers were also involved in the rate pool, where we agreed to set aside money for this area in 2016. This is something that I have been working on for many years, and that is why it was also one of the things that I brought with me when we agreed in the rate pool that we had to ensure that there was medicine-free treatment. By that time I had looked at how to do it in Norway. Unfortunately, I hear from the Minister today that it is only now that it has begun to run. Unfortunately, this is something that has been discussed many times in health circles here in the Parliamentary Assembly... does it go back 20 years? Either way, it's the same thing we're talking about. In relation to the inspiration from Norway, what we wanted at the time was to set up an experimental scheme with a drug-free section as part of the existing psychiatric section. Aid for the withdrawal and reduction of the consumption of medicines was also to be ensured here. A total of 10.2 million was allocated. kr. targeted regions, and the project was to be set up in one region and then evaluated. So I think we should wait for this evaluation. Because there have actually been a great many knots in relation to the regions wanting to do so here, and there have been a great many criticisms, which I think is really a pity. Because I would like to see something more than just medicine put in place, also in view of what we hear out in psychiatry. It is not long ago that in the Region of Zealand there was a debate about how many of the patients who were there told that the only thing they were offered was medicine. They didn't get any conversations, and they didn't see a psychologist. They were there for weeks before they were put in, and I think that is really, really sad, and I think we should do something about that in the long run. But I think this proposal is very similar to what we have set in motion and where it is the capital that has got this money to participate in the project. The content of this project was precisely to establish a treatment environment in a psychiatric section, where people with mental disorders could be treated both without medication and with a focus on decreasing and escalating existing drug use and using other forms of therapy and activities. The section should focus on recovery and the involvement of patients and relatives in the treatment. One of the reasons for the treatment was psychotherapy, psychoeducation, music therapy, mindfulness, physical activity, environmental therapy and family therapy, i.e. some of the things I see in the proposal that lies here. So, to me, these are two very similar offers, and if there is something I have misunderstood, then I would like to hear it from the authors. However, the motion for a resolution states that it is proposed that a number of offers be made to patients for whom it is estimated that the effect of drug-free treatment services will be best defined on the basis of certain diagnoses. I guess it's the same as what you do in the capital. It also says it with the escalation and termination of medication. It is the same as the proposal that we have all been involved in deciding in the rate pool. It will be evaluated, and what can be used as treatment methods is mindfulness, music therapy and psychotherapy. What I have read out is exactly the same as what we did in connection with the bet pool. So to me, this is a proposal equal to what we have actually set in motion in the capital at 10.2 million. kr., to which only two of us have been calling, which many have criticized, and which we find incredibly difficult to implement. I so wish we could have it in all five regions, so I fully agree with the proposers that this should be something we made a lot more of. Having said that, I would like to say that I hope that the Capital Region, with the project that we have all set aside with the pool, will have a proper project that can be evaluated and that can then be rolled out in the other regions. Because then we will have some of what the authors of the motion for a resolution say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172946	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315172950	Thank you. I think there is a difference between whether you call something a drug-free episode or whether you have a drug-free offer. Because you can have a department where there are both medical offers and medicines-free offers. So there's actually a difference. I was just as surprised that no one applied for that pool, and I believe that the rapporteur and I share the ambition that we should actually have another kind of medicine. At least I read back in September last year that the rapporteur has said that it should be possible to have psychiatric treatment without medication: I myself have worked in psychiatry, and I know that a conversation often helps troubled patients better than medicine, and then it does not harm the way the medicine does. That's the kind of statement I was happy about. So I've been thinking the same way: what's with those departments? That's why I'm trying to go another way. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also thinks that we may have to think differently from the project we have in the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173058	When I came forward with the suggestion that we should have a medicine-free section, it was my opinion that one should have a section that was completely drug-free and that offered all these things that I have listed. But I would like to say that after we had had it out and there had been no applications for the first round, there was a slight change, so there is actually now that you can get both medicine and not medicine on the section. So it has actually become what the rapporteur is proposing: it will be a section where some people are receiving medicines and you look at escalation and degressivity, and other activities can play their part to see if you can minimise the use of medicines. So it has become what the rapporteur would have liked, although I would have liked to have seen something else. Because I think that when you work in a section and you focus on this being without medication, you have a completely different way of thinking, and I'd rather have a department where it's mixed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173153	What is the difference is that we want it here throughout the country. I have also thought that the reason why the rate pool was not applied may have been that it was the rate pool because the regions are tired of every time they launch some initiatives to reduce the scale of coercion or do something else good for psychiatry, then it is temporary pools. That is why we have proposed a different approach. Then does the rapporteur share my ambition that this should be national and that it should have permanent funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173230	That is exactly what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I hope that the evaluation we receive from the capital will enable us to see that this is something that helps and that we can get it out in all regions. If the rapporteur then says that it should not be covered with the rate pool, then I would like to hear, when the rapporteur comes up here, how to finance this proposal. That is what I am missing from the proposal, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173251	Thank you very much to Mrs Liselott Blixt and welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173259	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the creation of medicines-free treatment services in psychiatry. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we in the Left are concerned that we can offer a wide range of treatment services in the field of psychiatry, treatment services that must support each other and be adapted to the individual patient. People with mental disorders, like all patients in the Danish healthcare system, must be offered a coherent effort and treatment of high quality, and I am fully in line with the proposers in terms of medical treatment, which cannot always stand alone. People are different and have different preferences, including people who have a mental disorder. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we think about getting the whole palette in play. Medical treatment, mindfulness, cognitive treatment, music therapy, ergo- and physiotherapy are just a few examples of different initiatives and different treatments that different people with different diagnoses will probably be able to benefit from at different stages of a disease course, just as I am also convinced that catching an early-stage mental disorder will be much more likely to engage in drug-free offers and the patient will experience a beneficial effect in relation to people who have gone longer with a given disorder. An early effort is far preferable. The idea of drug-free sections in psychiatry is not entirely foreign in a Danish context. With the 2017-2020 Rate Pool Agreement, more than 10 million were allocated. kr. It is not a secret that this particular pool gave rise to professional discussions on when and how alternative therapies should be used, and it has been a challenge to obtain qualified applications for the pool funds. But it is a discussion that is both healthy and important from my chair. The proposers are inspired by the Norwegian model. It is also healthy from my chair that we in Denmark are inspired by the experiences we experience in countries with which we usually compare ourselves. But it is also no secret that Norway was also faced with great scepticism about leaving the medicines-free offers alone, and in Norway it has also been difficult to attract doctors to the medical-free departments, unfortunately. We should, of course, avoid such a situation in Denmark. In the Left, we are concerned with ensuring good health care across somatics and psychiatry. Since the change of government, we have raised health care by more than 4 billion. kr., and it is money that has also benefited the psychiatry. My heart is particularly beating for children and young people, and for us in the Left it is and has been a clear priority to ensure better opportunities for early detection and early action in relation to our children and young people. I am therefore incredibly pleased that, together in the pool of rates, we have prioritised more than 200 million. kr. In the case of the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that this is the case in the case of Spain and Portugal. We must avoid our young people becoming patients in the psychiatry at all, and part of the answer is that we are becoming more skilled and more targeted when it comes to taunting young people who, for one reason or another, are miserable. As I mentioned earlier, early action can determine whether young people can be helped with medicines-free offers rather than medical treatment. Fortunately, the figures speak their clear language, because we are on the right track in reducing the consumption of medicines among both children and young people and adults. Let me give you two examples. The number of children starting treatment with antidepressants has decreased by 50 per cent. from 2010 to 2016, and the number of adults treated with psychopharmaceuticals has decreased by 10%. From 2010 to 2016. Does that mean everything's okay? No, there are still challenges, among others. in relation to the sleeping agent melatonin, which is still widely given to young people, although consumption is decreasing. Having said that, I welcome many of the initiatives taken to ensure a better psychiatry. The work on the close and coherent health care system and the entire management review initiated by the Minister for Health are just two examples of how we constantly look at how we can both ensure a strengthened and better and more coherent treatment for those concerned: Danish patients. There should be no doubt that we in the Left are 100% on the side of the patients. Overall, I can say that we share SF's intention, namely to ensure that there are relevant both medical and non-medical treatments available to patients with mental disorders, but we cannot support the model set out by SF. In the Left, we would like to see the allocated funds from the rate pool given time to work, just as it is not quite clear to us how the SF envisages funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173749	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. And welcome to Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315173756	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for tabling this motion for a resolution and putting the debate on drug-free treatment in the psychiatry on the agenda. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the proposal. We want to be involved in discussing how to implement it in concrete terms, but I will come back to that. I think it is very important that patients with psychic management have access to a better and more versatile treatment offer than medicine alone, and I actually hear my colleagues here before me. It may be cognitive therapy, as we know has documented effects on some mental disorders, music therapy, environmental therapy, exercise and mindfulness, which have also shown effect. The good thing about these types of treatments is that we know that they don't have the same types of side effects as we unfortunately do with the medicine. And for some patients, it can be a really, really good help. For others, it can be a really good help in interacting with a medical treatment. As I read the proposal, it is about ensuring that these offers are actually present throughout the country, so therapists and patients have the opportunity to use it and use the offers for which there is a documented effect. Several have raised the issue of whether it has already been fulfilled today. I cannot say that on the basis of the knowledge I have. That is my impression, but it is nothing more than an impression that there are places in psychiatry where you do not in practice offer the things you know have an effect. It may be due to lack of resources, it may be a lack of time or of staff. But perhaps a way forward could be to provide that knowledge: What does it really look like in the individual departments? What do they actually have at their disposal, and what do they actually use out there? We already have some of that knowledge, and some have referred to the development of children's and young psychiatry, but it could be an indication of how we could move on a little. From Enhedslisten's side we have previously raised the discussion here in the Danish Parliament about the need for a comprehensive plan for psychiatry. Several of the other rapporteurs here today have also referred to the discussion we had at the beginning of December. I still think that is the most important thing we need to do for psychiatry, because we need to see this discussion in a whole with regard to how psychiatry is being developed. The discussion about coercion and the discussion about self-determination and the involvement of patients and relatives is linked to the possibility of having access to more versatile treatment. This is not least about the discussion about the resources available and how we build a psychiatry that can deal with the very big challenge that we were presented with in the health profile that was published here 11⁄2 weeks ago, where we can see that mental diseases are growing rapidly. It is therefore a question of how we build a health service that can deal with that challenge, and we must also look at that together. I think that's what I was gonna say. My proposal would be that we should discuss, on the one hand, whether there is a need for a survey, but, of course, that this discussion should also be part of the plan for the overall development of psychiatry, because I kind of agree with the rapporteurs who believe that it should belong there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174141	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174144	First of all, thank you very much for your support for the proposal. When I want to ask a question, it is actually because I think about some of what the rapporteur said, i.e. that we do not really know what is of offer. And maybe we're gonna need a map like that. But I have, for example. Asked how many people actually get psychopharmaceuticals as part of their treatment, and we can see that it simply varies from region to region and from hospital to hospital and department to department, that is, from zero patients in adult psychiatry and up to 42 per cent. of the adult patients receiving psychopharmaceuticals as part of their treatment. And in children's and youth's psychiatry it varies from 4%. 53 per cent. What does the rapporteur think about these variations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174238	I think these are some very remarkable figures, and this might well suggest that the feeling that I have that it is not really everywhere that other forms of treatment than medicine are present is correct. What I said wasn't that we don't know. I said I don't know. It may well be that others have an overview of what it really is out there and what it really is for some tools you have on the shelves. However, I would certainly like to see what we know about it, and if we do not have an overview of it, and if it is just something that one should say I just have an ambition about in every region, but that is not the reality, then I think we have a huge problem, and then I think that SF's proposal hits spot on. And I think we should take that discussion seriously rather than just say that this is already happening. Because I'm not sure that's the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174333	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174342	Thank you. Psychiatry has certainly not been high enough for a long period of time, and people with mental illness are very vulnerable people who really need help. We find that people are rejected when they themselves seek help and are desperate because they know that they need help and that they can be a danger to themselves and to others. And yet they are rejected, and I think that is one of the major problems. Sometimes things end up as these poor people feared: they become a danger to themselves and others, and then you have to resort to coercion, which we do so much to avoid. It is terrible for the people who are sick and it is terrible for the people who suffer, who are attacked or affected by family tragedies or who are otherwise affected. It also happens that the police must be involved, which could perhaps have been avoided if these vulnerable people had been accepted in the first place. We have just made some major efforts in the psychiatric field, but we are far from achieving it, and we must continue to focus on psychiatry. It is therefore also high on the agenda of the Liberal Alliance. The government has set in motion work to review the psychiatric area, and there is a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry, including focusing on treatments other than medicine. I would like to thank Trine Torp of the SF for focusing on the consumption of medicines so that we can have a relevant discussion. I really believe that the discussion and the focus are important. I just think that this proposal is patching up the measures that we have already set in motion. One of the many interventions in the psychiatric area is precisely the focus on smaller medications. A total of 10.2 million has been allocated at national level. kr. for a drug-free trial pool to test new treatment methods, including forms of therapy and activities. I think we should wait to see the outcome of this before doing anything else. In addition, 200 million has been set aside. kr. to more and better competences to increase physical activity and multidisciplinary competences. The number of physiotherapists has increased by 12%, as has the size of other staff for activities, for example: music therapists and teachers and sports consultants have doubled from 2012 to 2016. In addition, the regions with the 2018 Economic Agreement got 500 million. kr. to a boost to health care, which should also raise treatment provision in psychiatry. In order to minimise the risk that people will find themselves in a situation where they are mentally ill and in need of medicine, there is a focus on early action, and initiatives have also been launched here with a significant boost of efforts towards children and young people with mental problems. There has also been a decline in many areas in the use of psychopharmaceuticals and in the number of people treated with antidepressants. This applies to children, adolescents and adults alike. So I think that the ideas behind the proposal are very positive, but it is patching up all the many initiatives that have been launched and from which I think we should see some results. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174723	Thank you to Mrs Kattrup and welcome to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315174729	Thank you for the floor. We are also very pleased that the SF has tabled this resolution, as it is something that has long been on the agenda of the Alternative. Last year, for example, I tabled a motion for a resolution on the establishment of complementary health care centres with a desire to have a more holistic approach. In our health policy we also have a desire to have psychiatric houses with medicines. In addition, as several have mentioned, it is very important to focus on psychiatry, so as a starting point we are positive about SF's proposals. We are, like the proposers, concerned. If I'm also going to mention some figures... that's what some people have done in the past... that's 7%. of the population in 2016, and it's just over 400,000 Danes, on antidepressants. According to Better Psychiatry, more than three out of four relatives are concerned about the health of the sick because of the medicine, and 51 percent. the psychiatrists believe that the amount of medication prescribed in psychiatric therapy is too high; that is, just over half of psychiatrists believe that too much medication is prescribed in psychiatric medicine. I think this is important in this context. We believe that there should be other offers to support citizens' health in a wider and more holistic perspective. We recognise that there are patients who need psychopharmaceuticals, but we also recognise that there are patients who want to use alternative treatments and who do not want psychopharmaceuticals. For us, it is important that the users of psychiatry have a say in the treatment they want and the treatment they do not want. Drug-free treatment services are therefore also about meeting a more open dialogue with patients and respecting their free will and self-determination. The proposers cite Norway as an example. As the first country in the world since 1 June 2016, Norway has introduced a psychiatric treatment in which patients with mental disorders are entitled to choose their own treatment. They have a real alternative to medicine, such as psychotherapy, environmental therapy and family therapy. In connection with this, the Norwegian Minister for Health wrote in a press release: "No one should be forced to take medicine as long as there are other ways of providing necessary care and treatment. ▪ I would also like to mention England as an example. In England, mindfulness NBCT is approved by what is equivalent to our Health Service, i.e. the National Health Service, and it is approved for the treatment of e.g. recurrent depression. So it has to be said that we in Denmark are not very progressive, at least not quite so progressive, unfortunately, in this area. I would also like to stress at the same time that we think it is important for more research to be carried out in this area, in other words complementary non-medical treatment methods, so that we can better document the impact of this. In this way, it will also be a really easier choice to make in health care. We are also aware that it may be problematic to talk about medicines-free treatment in relation to some groups of patients and that there will be some groups of patients who will not be able to decide for themselves what kind of treatment they should receive. Finally, I would like to say that a national plan of action is needed in psychiatry, and we stressed this in December when, together with the Enhedslisten, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF, we tabled a proposal for adoption to give a significant priority to psychiatry. Against this background, I would like to say that we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175217	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. And then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175233	Thank you. The proposal here concerns the establishment of medicines-free treatment services in psychiatry in all regions. At the Conservative People's Party, psychiatry is high on the agenda, and we agree that it is only positive when treatment can be done without the need for medication. However, we must recognise that we do not fully understand the basis of this proposal. We have already allocated 10.2 million from the rate pool. kr. to an experimental scheme. We understand the idea behind the proposal here, but we believe that it is an unnecessary step to take before the experimental system has reached its end and been evaluated. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175326	Thank you so much. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175334	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. Thanks to Enhedslisten and the alternative for being positive, but also thanks to the rest of the parties for being very aware of this with how much medicine, psychopharmaceuticals, we use in our psychiatry, and also for recognising the idea behind the proposal. I am listening to the fact that it might actually be very good, as well as getting an overview of what offers there are and how accessible they really are to citizens. Some say that they think that there are already offers to be made; others want to wait for some of the things we have put in the lake, and the Minister points out that there will be future development work on psychiatry. I think we may also agree that we want a psychiatry that gives people hope of getting better and getting better; that the movement towards such a psychiatry must be a movement that focuses on recovery. I also believe that many of us think that there is a value in giving people the freedom to choose and create real alternatives for citizens. And hopefully we do not have a social interest in making people's lives worse. However, just as some people feel helped by psychopharmaceuticals, there are also a lot of people who experience the opposite, namely that the medicine helps to worsen their situation or has no effect. And many also experience severe side effects and health consequences. I therefore believe that we have an ethical obligation to create alternatives for the sake of the individual, but also because it will benefit society. Studies have shown that there is a large correlation between being in psychopharmaceutical therapy and being a persistent patient in psychiatry. What comes first may not be known, but at least there is a connection, and thus the patient will also be away from the labour market and participation in social life. And I guess that's not the effect we really want. The national guidelines on adult, child and youth psychiatry advise that action be taken, for example. We are not in a position to do so, but we are not in a position to do so, and we are not in a position to do so. It has a large group of younger doctors and psychologists among others. written about in a joint speech and there are psychiatrists who have appeared and have said that medicine is the first choice after diagnosis has been made. So psychiatry too often ends up with a standard idea of treating psychiatric diagnoses without being obliged to try with less intrusive means that can be treated with no bad side effects. The proposal that we have examined today concerns the establishment of medicines-free treatment services in treatment psychiatric services in all regions. The intention of the proposal is to start a real debate and a change that focuses on the fact that psychopharmaceuticals should not always be the first, primary and only solution. We believe in the SF that there is a fundamental need to change a culture in which psychopharmaceuticals are seen as the most important tool in the treatment of people's mental problems. That is why it is so crucial that we ensure that there are medicines-free offers available throughout the country. So the debate is not about for or against medicine, but about ensuring that the right treatment offers are always available for the patient. There are a large number of research projects showing the benefits and positive effects of treatment methods such as cognitive therapy, mindfulness and music therapy, and many of the rapporteurs have also mentioned this. As the comments on the proposal also mention, Norway has taken the lead in medicines-free treatment. In 2016, the Norwegian Government ensured that drug-free treatment services should be available in all health regions of the country. And those offers have not only had to ensure that there were alternatives to the treatment with psychopharmaceuticals, but they have also aimed wider to also provide assistance for the escalation and termination of medical treatment. This is the model and approach we believe that it would be advantageous to transfer to Denmark. We want to focus on diversifying treatment with more opportunities so that all citizens are not cut across the board. Because if you have only a hammer, as I said earlier in the debate, you only see nails. New tools and new opportunities are needed. If the psychiatry staff are given other tools, it will also be possible to see psychological problems more nuanced. And that is why a drug-free offer in all regions is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175845	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175849	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I said in my rapporteur's speech that medical treatment in psychiatry as well as in somatics must never become such a standard treatment. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the Social Democrats that medical treatment can be the right first choice for psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175918	Yes, there is no doubt that one can be in a very painful state where psychopharmaceuticals are necessary. There are also a lot of people I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech who actually believe that they benefit from psychopharmaceuticals. So it is not a question of for or against medical treatment, but a question of extending the palette of options that is so that one is not forced to have psychopharmaceuticals if one can actually be helped by other methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315175953	I very much agree with that. There are no patients to be forced into anything unless they are so ill that they have to be subjected to forced treatment. That is why there must also be an offer. I gave the impression that what I experience when I visit psychiatric wards and am in contact with psychiatric management is that you have the offer that is needed if the patient is perhaps offered medical treatment, but says that that is not what you want. Then there must be the other offers. The reason why I rise and ask the question is simply that we also have an obligation as politicians to help defend the right thing in giving medical treatment to psychiatric patients when it is appropriate, and from a professional judgement it is considered to be the right thing to do and very often in combination with therapies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180052	Yes, we also have an obligation, I think, to listen to the many patients who find it too difficult to get treatment other than medical treatment and who think that the treatment they receive with psychopharmaceuticals gives them some side effects that they would like to be outside, but where they may not dare step out of the medication they are given it may not be a good idea either, if you do not put anything instead, but they are in a situation where they really do not have any alternatives to pharmacological treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180129	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Trine Torp. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180150	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 20 March 2018. I would like to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mrs Stine Brix, for her explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180225	Thank you for that, President. This is the last item on the agenda, but it is one of the most important issues when it comes to our health policy. Denmark's first smoke-free generation in 2030 is an ambitious goal, and it is an important goal. If we achieve that goal, it will mean that thousands of children who are growing up right now will be saved from tobacco death. It will be a historic boost to Danish public health and it will be a significant leap forward for more equality in health. So thank you to the former Left Government for joining such an ambitious goal and putting that objective on the agenda. I can only warmly support that, and as a questioner we can only warmly support it. Unfortunately, there is currently no prospect of us getting close to achieving that goal. The brand new health profile shows that more young people are smoking today than four years ago. After many years of going the right way, things are going the wrong way. This contrasts sharply with our neighbouring Nordic countries, where the proportion of young people who smoke is much lower than in Denmark. We need to do more, and this applies to a great many actors: schools, retail trade, municipalities, civil society organisations and the Health Authority. They're all in progress, but we're missing here in the Folketing. We have a huge responsibility, because it is we here in the Folketing who have the power to make decisions that can be absolutely crucial to saving thousands of lives. It's as simple as that. The decisions we make or do not make are of great importance to the children and young people who are growing up right now. Are they to be the first generation to be free from smoke, free from diseases caused by smoking such as lung cancer, COPD, heart disease and asthma and free from premature deaths? Or should we continue as we are now, knowing that this will mean that one in ten of those between the ages of 11 and 17 today will die of tobacco? That is why we, the Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, have today called for a debate in this Chamber. I hope that we will have a good and constructive debate on what we can do, but first I will read out the question put to the Minister, which is as follows: what is the government's assessment of tobacco impact on public health, and what will the government specifically do to achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, as set out in the cancer plan IV? I look forward to hearing the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180527	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. We shall now proceed to the Minister's reply. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315180534	Thank you for the question. After all, smoking is a huge public health problem. It's the biggest killer if we look at the numbers. Smoking causes 13,600 additional deaths among ex-smokers and smokers compared to non-smokers each year. And if you look at the figures and the risks, you know that the figures say that you smoke 15 cigarettes or more a day, you shorten your lifespan by up to 10 years compared to the one who never smokes. That's because all forms of smoking damage the body. Smoking increases the risk of more than 15 different cancers. The rapporteur for the questioners mentioned some of them. And that is also why, as a government, we have a special focus on preventing children and young people from taking over the bad habits of their parents. That is why smoking is one of the areas where prevention efforts need to be strengthened, especially among children and young people, and where, of course, both the government and the Danish Parliament, but also a large number of other actors, we must focus on it because we have a special responsibility in relation to children and young people. The government has an ambitious goal of getting Denmark's first smoke-free generation by 2030, i.e. an ambition that no children and young people should smoke in Denmark by 2030. This is an objective shared by the Cancer Society, the Heart Association and many more, and it is to a large extent a national vision and objective that must be gathered up locally, both by individuals in relation to personal responsibility, also in relation to taking a position on their own health, a parental responsibility in relation to ensuring that children and young people do not take over the bad habits of their parents, but also locally in both municipalities and regions and in schools, who have a responsibility to have an attitude to it and a smoking policy. There is another place where you can pick it up locally, and we have seen that today, when Magasin's supermarket as the first supermarket in northern Europe has chosen to remove cigarettes from the shelves, or when we saw in December that the OK Plus tank in Roskilde chose to put the cigarettes under the counter. These are initiatives that I would like to commend and highlight, because it is also a question of taking responsibility locally, of having a position that does not want to expose children and young people to cigarettes, of having a position on this and of sharing the ambition that we should have a smoke-free generation, a generation in which children and young people do not start smoking. Unfortunately, we can see from the figures that there are too many children and young people, unfortunately also more, than there were just a few years ago, who both take a party smoke, but where the feast smoke also grows firmly and becomes a daily consumption of cigarettes. 40 children and young people each day start smoking in Denmark in a way where smoking grows firm and becomes a habit, and we know that it has major health consequences. That is why it is also important, when we talk about prevention policy, when we talk about achieving the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, that we then also ensure that each individual takes responsibility. Each of us has a responsibility for our health. We also have a responsibility as politicians, both in relation to the policy we are pursuing, but also in relation to the initiatives we are taking, to take targeted initiatives in relation to some of the groups that we can see are particularly vulnerable, not least children and young people. There is no doubt that if two 14-year-old girlfriends are thinking about buying a pack of cigarettes for the first school party, perhaps because they misunderstood it is a bit cool or because one of the older ones smokes, it is important that we somehow relate to what makes them do it. What actually makes them think in the first place? This is very much what the BUT WHY campaign, for which we have jointly allocated money, is about to do. With it, we must try to see if we cannot speak the languages of young people so that we can ensure that young people each take responsibility and understand the consequences of smoking. But most of all, the campaign must make them wonder whether they even need those cigarettes and what they really give of added value to them, so that they are asked the question but why? and laughed at him the smart guy in the campaign, who shuts the cigarette in a cool way to seem extra tough, but the fact is actually quite a mess. You can easily have strong communities without having a cigarette in your mouth. I think it is very important that we do not neglect the fact that in many ways many of the campaigns that have been carried out have been brushed off on young people, not because they do not know that smoking is unhealthy, but because the way we have talked about it has not related to the place in life that they are. Therefore, some would like to belittle the value of campaigns targeted at young people. I think it is important that we also increase the responsibility for information in order to get young people to take a position, because we can see that, in fact, the campaign already, with the first evaluations, of the campaign, shows that it leads young people to take a position, to talk about smoke, and has also caused some of the smokers to shut down cigarettes. It may be that they have seen one of those videos from the youtubes that they are following and that they have told us that it is ridiculous to start smoking just to be smart, and perhaps that is exactly what makes them consider doing it and that it is not just the moralizing index finger or the discussion of bans that one thinks can push anything that does it. Of course, young people get their impressions from many and from much more than only where the campaign is. Parents play a crucial role, and parents have to take responsibility. Each of us must talk to our children about the consequences of smoking, and we also know that children of parents with a clear attitude that smoking is bad are less likely to smoke. In this week, the Danish Health Authority will start the next phase of the campaign, where parents will also be on board, and where you will be included. can be counseled to talk to your children about smoking. And this is about taking responsibility in several places, everywhere. This applies both to personal responsibility and to the responsibility of organisations, in schools and in retail trade, precisely to ensure that we achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. If the parents of these two 14-year-old girls smoke, we also know that there is a much greater risk that these girls will choose to buy a pack of cigarettes and start smoking. That is why we must also include the older generation, for which everything else is equal to make choices for ourselves and for which we, as a government, have no objective, because our focus is on children and young people, because we think we have a special responsibility towards children and young people. However, there is no doubt that the changes to the layout of the cigarette packages have two thirds of the package of information on the Stopline, whose number is on the cigarette packages, and which have special offers of free smoking cessation medicines, which has also been included as part of the Cancer Plan IV and which has been concluded as financed by the rate pool, are also important initiatives to ensure that smoking cessation offers are present in those groups where we also know that it can be really difficult to quit smoking. As I have said, schools, both heads of schools and teachers, but not least the boards of schools, also have a responsibility for having a policy at each educational institution, and that they actually relate to how to affect the two friends and their classmates, both if you are a vocational school, a production school and, for that matter, a high school or a primary school around the country's municipalities. It is in relation to how to teach how to take the discussion about it, but of course also, in relation to whether you have a smoking policy, whether you as a vocational school think it is smart to sell cigarettes in the canteen at the vocational school, or whether you actually have a policy about a smoke-free workplace. Of course, responsibility must be taken, including locally, to ensure that we achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. Everything does not need to be brought about by legislation and bans on the part of the Member States. From the national level, we must support local efforts. This is done by the Danish Health Protection Agency with the prevention packages, which are coming new versions of now, and which can lay the foundations for solid and uniform action throughout the country in the field of prevention. With the recommendations from the tobacco prevention package, municipalities have been given a good tool in their hands to target and prioritise the efforts that are assessed as good practice and which have positive results for citizens. We can also see that now that we are starting to bring in some of the results from both regions and municipalities in relation to the targeted efforts against tobacco. If we then look at this in relation to the municipalities, we can also see that only a little more than half of the municipalities say in the recent study that they comply with the recommendations at the basic level in the prevention of tobacco smoking, so it has to be said that there is still a lot of work to be done locally in the municipalities in relation to taking responsibility for creating more smoke-free environments. So many have a responsibility, it is not just the public, and it is not only in here that we have a responsibility. Then there is the part about how the two young girls of 14 years of age can get a pack of cigarettes at all when the law in Denmark is very clear and quite unambiguous that tobacco cannot be sold to children and young people under the age of 18. This is also an area in which we need to focus more strongly. Because it is all too easy for children and young people today to buy cigarettes in shops, and that is also why the government, both with the partnership with the retail trade we have concluded and with the tightening up we are now making, will help to put a big, bold line on compliance with the legislation in this area. After all, we will also be discussing the implementation of this House a little later this spring, because much of this is going to require legislation, in other words, in order to ensure that the legislative elements we already have today, which say that it is forbidden to sell tobacco to children and young people, are tightened up. The partnership must also get the retail trade to shoulder that responsibility, and now I highlighted Magasin and the OK Plus tank in Roskilde a little earlier. In fact, I think it is worth saying that in this area too we can be a positive first mover and help set an agenda that will enable us to reach the goal and ensure that fewer children and young people light up the cigarette. I believe in many ways that this fight against children and young people's smoking is a fight we must take together. It is about changes in behaviour, it is about changes in culture, it is very much about sending the right signals, and I think it is naive to believe that bans, patronage and legislation are the way we achieve the objective we have of a smoke-free generation. It takes a lot more and more. That is also the reason why, for example, we have to do something about it. In Denmark and elsewhere, tobacco advertising and sales to children and young people under the age of 18 have been banned, and we must, as a result of the campaign and with some of the enforcement initiatives I have mentioned, have strengthened efforts to prevent children and young people from even coming into contact with cigarettes and tobacco at all. So we support local efforts, and we must continue to do so, because our ambition for a smoke-free generation by 2030 cannot be achieved solely by means of bans, legislation and guardianship from here. It can only be achieved if many actors across society move in the same direction and share the vision. We can't do this alone. I also hope that, as I see it, we can see by today with a large retail operator, Magasin, who like dares to go ahead with the fact that more and more people are taking responsibility. I also believe that this is exactly how we achieve the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. It is not easy, it is not simple, but we must be able to achieve it, because smoking kills people every day, including here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315181826	I thank the Minister for Health for her answer. We move on to the debate, and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315181835	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your reply. I fully agree with the Minister when she says that the fight against tobacco is one of the most important tasks we have in improving public health in this country. The Minister also points out that tobacco is the biggest cause of premature deaths in Denmark, and the Minister mentions the unfortunately well-known figure, namely that 13,600 Danes die each year as a result of tobacco. Tobacco is the only legal product that kills every other person who uses it, and it is worth noting when you use it according to the rules. Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Norwegian Prime Minister and Director-General of the WHO, has said so, and many others have said it after her. That's a remarkable quote, a remarkable point. And we know that tobacco will kill thousands of children and young people who are growing up right now, but only if we do nothing, and that is why I am very much in favour of the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. For me, it is both a political and a personal matter, and most of us know of some people who are sick or have died of cancer, and of course I do. My grandmother was one of them when she died a month and a half ago. Without tobacco, I am quite sure that she would have had a longer life, exactly how far I can not know, but according to statistics she would have lived up to 10 years longer than she did. Ten years had made the difference whether she had gotten to know her two great-grandchildren and whether they had gotten to know her. Without the tobacco, it is very likely that she had escaped the difficult COPD that she lived with in the last few years, and the lung cancer, which was probably what completely ended it with her. Of course, I can't do that again, but in return, I and we in here can influence the future. We have the political power in here in the Folketing to make decisions that can help save thousands of lives. We have the power to give my two-year-old daughter and her generation a smoke-free future if we act. They can become a generation, the first in Denmark, which is largely free of smoke and all the diseases that come with it. It is we who are very much in this decision. Of course, I agree with the Minister that there are many others who have to act: the municipalities, which can do better than they do today; the schools, which could also act themselves; the retail trade, where we see some individual companies taking special responsibility, etc. etc. But that does not relieve us of our responsibilities as well. The bad news is that it is going the wrong way in achieving the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. Both among young people between 16 and 24 years of age and among the slightly older young people, those under 35 years of age, we see an increase in how many smoke since the last inventory in 2013. On the other hand, the good news is that we have plenty of knowledge about what we can actually do. It is possible to prevent smoking and tobacco-related deaths, as other countries around us clearly show. That is why our position is clear: we believe that the Folketing should take the initiative on a national plan against tobacco, as recommended by a large number of organisations that have written to the Folketing, and I think it was yesterday that we received a letter with signatures from 35 of some of the most important health, child care and other sectors involved in this. I think that this is a real focus that the previous government has put forward, namely how we prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. Our position is that the three most important initiatives are as follows: point 1: higher prices. Of 37 European countries, Denmark is no. 36, if you compare cigarette prices with other consumer goods. We are the second cheapest country to smoke in Europe, and that is a major reason why we have so many children and young people starting to smoke, because we know that children and young people are very sensitive to what the price is. Paragraph 2: neutral tobacco packages and tobacco under the counter, thereby eliminating the possibility for industry to brand itself and to avoid the possibility of advertising. We can also see that apparently has an effect in other countries, and I think it is worth trying. To me, it can't do any harm. Point 3: to ensure smoke-free environments where children and young people move. That is why, of course, we believe that the ban on smoking should apply to all youth education and not just to some, as is the case today. Of course, I think it is good with campaigns, I certainly do not mind them, and I think they can have an effect too, but I think it is important that they are not alone. I am well aware that there is no support for the three points I have just mentioned here today, but, on the other hand, I am very pleased that we can at least bring together some of the actions with the Socialists, the Alternative, Radical and the SF. At the same time, of course, I would like to appeal to the rest of the Danish Parliament to reconsider the decision taken that none of the tools we know work. Before leaving the platform, of course, I would also like to answer questions if there were any such ones, on behalf of the Socialists, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament finds it alarming that an increasing number of children and young people are starting to smoke. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has agreed to the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, but also notes that it does not seem realistic to achieve this objective with the very limited measures that the government has put forward so far. For this reason, the Folketing instructs the government to call for negotiations on a comprehensive national action plan on tobacco prevention. The action plan will include measures such as legislation on the tobacco trade under the counter, neutral cigarette packages, limiting the influence of the tobacco industry on health policy in Denmark and a tobacco subsidy for the retail trade, which can be denied by repeated violations of the ban on selling tobacco to children and young people under 18 years of age. The Folketing also instructs the Government to take the initiative to strengthen control over the effective compliance of this legislation with the retail trade. • V 43). We will allow that to be included in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315182549	Thank you to the rapporteur. And yes, it is true that the proposed proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. No one has asked for brief comments to the rapporteur, so we thank him and move on in the rapporteur's line to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315182609	Thank you very much, President. I wish the cameras that spin here were from 21 Sunday on DR and 19 News on TV 2. I would like the discussion and message here to be knocked out to the Danish people because, as the previous rapporteur said, this is the most serious cause of disease among Danes and the cause of the most deaths among our fellow countrymen. Nearly 14 000 people a year die as a result of tobacco smoking and we have to face up to the fact that we will not succeed in reducing the level of disease and death in this country unless we tackle tobacco in exactly the same way. As some have said a little polemically, if we are to focus on the main and most serious causes of illness and death in Denmark, the order of the four causes is as follows: in first place tobacco, second place tobacco, third place tobacco, yes, and then it may not matter what comes in fourth place. But it's serious. As I have often said as the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur and the Prevention Rapporteur, this is a bomb in the health of children and young people. We can talk about us adults, that is, adults who have a free choice and can do what we want. But for children and young people who are lured into tobacco and who become addicted to it, this is a completely different matter. Because this is where we adults have to act. And as my colleague here in the Danish Parliament, former Minister of Health from the Left, Bertel Haarder, once said in a debate we had: when it comes to children and young people, it cannot be called paternalism when we act politically. Then it's taking responsibility. I mentioned that children and young people are being lured. Yes, they do. We have a very strong tobacco industry in Denmark and throughout the world. It is an industry which has repeatedly been said that it has lied and deceived with results. It is certainly an industry and it emerged from a conference we held here at Christiansborg yesterday on cancer and tobacco • about whose products were clearly said that nothing is more addictive and addictive than nicotine. Then you've gone on it once, yes, there's a lot of people who never get rid of the habit. That is why we must act politically, and that is why I am very pleased with this question. And I am very pleased that we are united in the red section of the Folketing to say that we have to take action; we have to confront the government that always has the right to serve when initiatives are to be taken to do everything we can in this matter. Mrs Stine Brix said there was a close relative, a grandparent who had died of this. I just met a photographer out here today who was supposed to take some pictures of me in connection with the tobacco case because my father died of lung cancer. And I was standing with his last tobacco. Now you can't take props here in the Parliament hall, otherwise I would have done it and smelled like the tobacco he didn't have time to smoke, but which caused him to have a really, really bad death. He had to say goodbye to the life he was so happy about, too soon. But we must act, I say to the Minister. And that is why we have called for this debate to say: what can we do to achieve the smoke-free generation? It's a long road, and we know it. That's what the Minister says. I just think we have to say that, unfortunately, we have a government that is looking at what we need to achieve, but I really do think that initiatives are lacking. I really want to believe that our health minister, who is at the head of health, prevention and health promotion in a three-clover government, must have the same desire to do something about some of the things that the Minister's predecessor, Mrs Sophie Løhde, had as Minister for Health, where she said she would work for a smoke-free generation and ensure harmonisation between the secondary schools and the vocational schools, to name but a few specific initiatives. I'm afraid that's not what we're seeing. And that is why the bomb has not been taken care of under our health, as the government is now doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183155	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183158	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur said something about being united in the red part of the Assembly. I have previously heard Enhedslisten point out that the price of cigarettes will be significantly increased, I have heard the alternative say the same thing, i.e. that the price of cigarettes will be significantly increased. If I don't remember completely wrong, Enhedslisten has mentioned that a pack of cigarettes should cost about 90 kroner. I would just like to know whether it is also social democratic policy now, in view of the fact that we are united in the red bloc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183234	After all, Mrs Stine Brix has just read out our adoption text, so Mrs Jane Heitmann must have been absent from the Chamber. Our adoption text clearly illustrates what we stand together about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183251	Mrs Jane Heitmann on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183253	So let me ask in one way: do the Socialists intend to raise the prices of cigarettes significantly if one day they move into government offices?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183304	I note that for two and a half years now we have had a bourgeois government that has done nothing about cigarette prices. I wish I could have asked Mrs Jane Heitmann, but I must not question when the cigarette prices were last raised. Who was it that removed the 10-packs? Who did something about the price sensitivity on this serious issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183331	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183334	The discussion on higher prices is really important. It was not long ago that we had the discussion here in Parliament and Mrs Jane Heitmann asked me directly what I thought a package of cigarettes should cost. And I answered very briefly, that's all I said: 60 kr. So it is just that it is part of the debate what we have proposed. I have also noticed that several prominent Left politicians have been suggesting that prices should be looked at. One of the most striking voices, the probably future president of the Danish Regions, Stephanie Lose, has said that prices must be raised significantly. I have also seen the Prime Minister of today's Medicine saying that, from a preventive perspective, prices should be raised, but he then refers to the fact that it cannot be agreed in the government. So I would say that I certainly have the hope that this is a debate that is not over yet and that we can discuss with both the Social Democrats, whose rapporteur is now in the Chair, but also with the Left in the future, how we change the fact that we in Denmark are today no. 36 on the list of countries in relation to the prices of cigarettes Thirty-six in the bad way!
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183448	Thank you very much to Mrs Stine Brix. This is where we are in complete agreement. It is clear from our adoption text that we want the Minister to call for a comprehensive political debate in order to have a national action plan in the area which causes the most illness and death in Denmark. I guess it shouldn't be too much for a minister, no matter what party color you have. And I think it is actually a tiny bit polemical by the Left rapporteur here to try to turn the debate onto something that, as it were, should be concrete, rather than taking some of the points of the question exactly the question of how we can agree on this. For some of what was also apparent from yesterday's cancer conference and the tobacco conference was that it is everyone's wish that we should stand together. The National Association of Municipalities, Danske Regions, professional organisations, civil society, large parts of the retail trade want us to act here and take responsibility on the structural parts. With a national action plan in this area, we could try to bring together all the parties and not move away from each other, but take the responsibility that has been given us 179 here in the Parliamentary Chamber and help to support all the many voices that have understood how serious it is in Denmark and that the bomb explodes every day when 40 young people start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183622	Does Stine Brix wish to make another brief comment? No. Then we move on to the next person who wants a brief comment, and that is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183632	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on Jane Heitmann's question and ask very briefly: will the Social Democrats raise the price of cigarettes if you are given the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183648	We raised the price last time, and we have recorded very seriously, just as the speaker said earlier, that Denmark is the second best country for the sale of cigarettes and tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183710	Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183713	Yes, but then I ask again: will the Social Democrats raise the price of cigarettes if they are given the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183722-2	Social democracy has come up with four perfectly clear proposals: we have come up with the proposal that we have to hide the tobacco in the shops; we need neutral cigarette packages; we need to have a much better control; we have set aside a lot of money for better control; and then we have to have a licensing system so that we can press the retail trade to understand that we have a law that says that tobacco must not be sold to young people under 18 years of age; because the retail trade is selling tobacco to young people under 18 to an awful extent. The debate on what tobacco will cost in the future has not been repeated in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183802	There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183807	Thank you. Then I will follow up a little on May-Britt Kattrup's question, because I do not think the rapporteur really answered that question, and I am, in fact, curious to hear whether social democracy will raise the prices of cigarettes if you come to power at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183835	In fact, I thought my answer was very specific, and it was that we did not have a further discussion in the Socialist Group on the cost of cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183846	There is no wish for another brief comment? No. We shall now proceed to Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315183852	I would like to say in relation to the questions that have just been put by the bourgeois rapporteurs that tobacco smoke contains 4 000 chemical compounds when inhaled, and among other things. a wide range of additives. So we have kids who buy these products. We've got a lot of kids around 37 percent. of the young people in vocational training courses who smoke. They don't smoke alone, they smoke daily. Then it surprises me, when it is children's health, that one then apparently chooses to put financial questions first. So my comment is that I hope that the rapporteur will take part in using the instruments that exist so that we can prevent children from being exposed to all this chemical poison, I think, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's own answer to that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184006	When we had a red government last time, we used to raise cigarette prices, and we removed the piss packs. It was all because we knew the price was important. But we must not just act in one area and with one initiative; we must act all the way around. I also think that there are some openings in the bourgeois parties. I think there was an opening from the former Minister for Health of the Left. I think there is an opening when the Chairman of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, Søren Gade, expresses very clear views on the need for something to be done in the area of tobacco. I think there are clear signals when President Stephanie Lose from the Left of the South Denmark Region expresses exactly the same thing. I also think there are signs when our Prime Minister, in a major article in Today's Medicine recently, expressed that there are different positions in the government and that that is why there is no other way to act. So my hope is that we will be united in taking the necessary initiatives to remove the bomb that lies there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184128	Then there is one last brief comment to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184132	Thank you very much. After all, I am one of the health rapporteurs who has been involved for a number of years, and I can easily remember all the debates we have had on tobacco and cigarettes. I also remember when we debated it under the Red Government, where the price would actually be raised more than DKr 2.50, as was actually done. At that time there were also studies which showed that when you raised the price, it would hit some of those who had few money to live for. At that time, those who did not have so much money would be compensated for the rise in cigarette prices. I do not know whether the rapporteur remembers the debate then. But that is why I would also like to deal with it when the rapporteur refers to what a whole lot of other people who are not present in the Chamber would do in relation to the Minister for Health. Then we know that Enhedslisten will set the price of 60 DKK. The Radicals have today been out to say that they want twice as high a price, but now I am not hearing what the Social Democrats want. I would like to know what the health rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party thinks a package of cigarettes should cost in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184239	We have not had a further discussion on the cost of cigarettes and tobacco, but I have said here and in the past that we are embarrassingly aware of this and I really think it is embarrassing that we are the second cheapest country in Europe, given that this is the worst and most serious single cause of illness and death. And no one is interested in this area that has not noticed the extent to which the Social Democratic Party has asked questions to the Minister for Health about tobacco, because we have to get this culled. I got the answer that one can expect to 9.3%. of all young people between the ages of 11 and 17 will die from a disease caused by their smoking. It has been converted into absolute figures • 44,000 young people aged 11-17 years. That's two in each class in primary school on average. Is it serious? Yeah, it's not just serious, it's a scary truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184355	Mrs Liselott Blixt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184357	Thank you very much. The rapporteur also boasted that the tisty package had been removed. Funny enough, I went out to talk to some young people the day before yesterday, who said it is a pity that we do not have the piss pack anymore, because now we have to buy a twenty-pack, which means that we smoke more than the ten. So it could be that what you did back then, which you pride yourself on, has actually done that some young people smoke something more. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur knows what a package of illegal cigarettes costs and how many are being negotiated in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184431-2	At any rate, the Social Democrats do not want illegal cigarettes to be sold in Denmark, because then we will have a further health problem, because then no one knows what has been put in by additional dangerous substances other than all the dangerous substances contained in the cigarettes registered in Denmark. In relation to the box packing, it is funny, because a former Irish Minister for Health, who was present here in the Danish Parliament yesterday, said that one of the reasons why they had been successful with many political initiatives decided by a very broad majority in the Irish Parliament a few years ago, among others. was to make hidden tobacco, but it was among other things. to remove the sale of single cigarettes, which the Socialist-led government also ensured, namely to remove the small packages. So, overall, as a parliament and Parliament, we just have to look around and look at the experience of the Nordic countries, from Ireland, from England and from many other countries, and hopefully we will have to act quickly on it. And I hope that we will succeed in the government calling for discussions on a national action plan in the field of tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184548	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315184557	Thank you very much. Once again, we need to discuss tobacco. The question is addressed to the Minister and you will know what the government intends to do to achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation. It is of course also a very interesting question, and that is precisely one of the reasons why we in the Danish People's Party said that we would not agree with an objective. We know that it is part of the cancer plan, but we also said that it is the government's objective, not ours. Then why don't we join in? Is it because we don't want a smoke-free generation? No, certainly not. But we just do not believe that we can achieve the goal of a smoke-free generation; that is, in 12 years' time we are talking about! We also know that if we set ourselves a target, we would be dragged around just as we are doing today, and continue to demand new things, make signal policy, and what do I know? We do not believe in any of the proposals we hear about and about which 35 organisations write us. You can really feel that some people have spoken. All the troops have been gathered together and said: we must now influence the government; now we must show the people that we want something in terms of smoking; now we really must address it and tell them how many people are dying. I sometimes wonder when there is something else that kills us, for example. When it comes to the environment, is it 500 in the City of Copenhagen who die of pollution every year? There are also people who ask: why do we have to hear about this all the time? What about the other diseases that are not mentioned? Why is there this one-sided focus all the time? You've just been looking at people who allow themselves to smoke, no matter what their reasons for doing so are. When I talk to some older people, I can hear that their quality of life is getting their daily cigarette. But eventually they dare not show up, and they dare not even talk about it, for it has become a hetz against a certain part of the population. If you come by a hospital, you'll see people standing outside with their racks and in their nightwear, in hospital clothes, because they've been thrown out because they're not allowed to smoke. Fortunately, there was a hospital that had first made it possible on the whole matrix, but they had to involve it. Is this how we treat people who actually can't stop? Then it may be that they all say they want to stop, but it's hard for them. And for some, they have more problems than smoking. We're feeling this massive influence, and I've heard it's only getting worse. I would like to warn against this, because how many people are saying that it is just before they start smoking because of the massive hetz that is at the moment. Uniform packages are proposed. Well, the other day I was in a kiosk, and there I could also hear that some of those who come in stand and say, "I want that package with the baby on." Does that scare them? No, they'll get used to it. The picture fills most of the package; I think it is 1 or 11⁄2 cm that needs to be dyed green so we can get uniform packages. We don't believe that's gonna help. I also read an article saying that a rise could be seen again in France and that it would not help to make one's packages. There they also have an increase in the number of smokers. In fact, at this time we are talking about Australia, that is to say about the success we have had, but I would like to say to people there: try to google smokers and the increase in the number of smokers. Then you will see that in Australia it has begun to rise, even if the price has been raised and they have made all these proposals and actually have no border countries. As far as the price is concerned, we hear that no one speaks out but a couple of parties, because it is also well known that this will have some effects. We see an increase in illegal cigarettes in Norway. As the Social Democrat rapporteur said, they are filled with everything, rat excrement, more tar, more nicotine, a whole lot of drugs that we have actually had removed from some of the cigarettes that can be seen on the shelf today. And that's just what we see coming more and more into the country. It's already here now. I asked some young people the other day: do you know where to get copy cigarettes, illegal cigarettes? Yeah. How long will it take you to get them? Ten minutes. That's what it takes for you to have a $30 package. That's not what we want. We want other things to be done. We must lift the social and mental health of the young people. I should like to make the following points (on behalf of DF, V, LA and KF): Proposals for adoption • There has been a constant decline in the number of smokers in Denmark for decades. From a share of just under 60%. of the population in 1953 to 22 per cent. in 2017, in particular the proportion of men who smoke has decreased significantly. Parliament follows developments closely, not least when it comes to the number of children and young people who smoke. • V 44).
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185157	This proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Now there are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185207	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that this proposal for adoption is certainly not going to blow away. However, this is the greatest and most obvious example of having four bourgeois parties to agree on something. And that was the most yes, I hardly know what to call it. However, I have a question for the rapporteur. The rapporteur starts by saying that now there are 34 organisations that have sent a call to the Assembly as a whole, and then it sounded a little like we had been out trying to get some to react to the fact that we should have a question here today. At least it is not the Social Democrats who have been. But I think it's amazing that the breadth of organizations and let me just mention some to show the breadth: it's the Children's Council, FOA, Danske Patients and Struer Municipality, yes, it was just 4 out of 34 says that now the Danish Parliament must take care of itself and ensure smoke-free education and school time, real ban on tobacco advertising and help to stop smoking, that it must have consequences to break the law, and then the price must be set up. What is the Minister thinking? Is it not quite voluntary for 34 organizations to address themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185322	The rapporteur is in favour of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185328	Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm not a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185355	We'll take it easy. I recommend that the rapporteur take a glass of water. Does the rapporteur want the question again? Yes!). Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185404	I think, Mrs Liselott Blixt, that it is quite liberating that with a subject like this we can bring out the laugh, too, isn't it? But it should be followed by the fact that we could also agree to do some things. And I must say that I was actually very, very pleasantly surprised yesterday at the conference I mentioned here, where the Danish People's Party Councilman in Aarhus Municipality stood up and said that with her experience in life with health and the consequences that smoking has, she would be the banner leader of a national action plan in the field of tobacco in Denmark. There I just want to hear whether the Danish People's Party's Health Rapporteur here in the Danish Parliament supports a national action plan on tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185505	Thank you very much and apologize for my laughter. It wasn't because of the subject. I would also like to answer the first question, because I was also invited by some of these organisations who made a brainstorm on prevention in the autumn, so I am well aware of who has brought together all these groups, and I also know how they use lobbyists against the various parties and do something together. And with the effort that we see every day, there are consultations, there are questions in the Chamber, there are questions, people can just look at how much there is, and then they can see how you make an effort in the area as a whole. To the second question that the rapporteur is asking about a DF politician, I would say that I think it is fantastic that something is being done in its own municipality, which I cannot understand that the municipality of Struer does not do, rather than signing something about what we are not in favour of a national action plan which mentions some of the things that some people have said. We want to do something, but these are quite different things from those you keep coming out with in the daily press.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185611	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185613	What you come out with in the daily press is what the Danish Health Authority recommends. That is what we know to work, and it is, for example, to hide the tobacco in the shops and make neutral cigarette packages. So, there is a complete rejection by the Danish People's Party that there could be a health-enhancing effect of the things that the Danish Health Authority among others. Says there's really good evidence for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185636	Yeah, some of the things you put forward, we don't believe in helping. Because you look at the countries that have done these things and where they have done a lot of things at once, and then you get from it that this helped. There is no evidence of this with the package itself, because it was done at the same time as everything else. You often refer to Norway. I think Norway has done some very good things that we should learn from what is called smoke-free environment in schools, where they make an effort in teaching, etc. for the young people. But they did everything together, and that was where you could see that the number of smokers fell, as well as when we had the first smoking legislation at home. There we could also see how the number fell.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185726	Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185731	My first question concerns the fact that, in his speech, the rapporteur told us about patients who are outside hospitals and who are going into rain and wind, and that does not sound good. But then I thought: does Mrs Liselott Blixt mean that we should be allowed to smoke in hospitals? And where else does the rapporteur think we should be allowed to smoke in schools, in the day institutions? What was the point of pulling it out with you standing outside the hospitals and smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185806	I simply do not think it is worthy that we have sick people to stand outside. I would like to see some pavilions made, as you have done in some hospitals, or scrubs, pulled away from the entrance or where everyone can see them. I wonder why it is that people actually go out and say that studies show that children and young people learn to smoke by watching what others do. And what have we done? We've taken it all out on the street where they can see that you can smoke. At the high schools, they stand on the mattress next door and smoke, so that all the children and young people who pass by on their way to kindergarten and to school can see that the young people are smoking instead of doing scrubs where people will not be able to see them. Well, the logic I can't understand. It's the same with the hospitals. You complain about their cigarette butts and so on, but make a shed where there are ashtrays and so forth, instead of exhibiting some sick people who may have had the worst diagnosis of their lives and have to live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185902	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185904	Yeah, if you look exactly at that group, that's right. But does the rapporteur recognise that during the time when we changed it so that it is not like when I was a child, when people had to smoke everywhere on trains, in hospitals, in schools, our smoking has actually fallen? And the rapporteur recognizes that it matters whether you can smoke as often as you like or whether you are restricted to smoking, for example. outside; and that your cigarette consumption decreases if you have poor opportunity to smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315185951	The Danish People's Party was included in the first smoking law, which we think was the first, the largest and the right, and which meant that you should not bother each other. We believe that everyone should be allowed to have their vices and also be free from the vices of others. This meant that passive smoking and active smoking had to be restricted so that everyone could do what they wanted to do. And it was just about protecting the passive smokers. I also like to go to a restaurant and get food or anywhere else without smoking. But throwing them outside wasn't meant to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190028	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190032	Thank you. I just want to ask whether the Danish People's Party wants fewer young people to start smoking yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190045	I'd like us to have a smoke-free generation. I just don't think it's gonna be in 2030, and I don't believe in the things you've set out to do, i.e. this whole package thing that needs to be saved, and that they have to be one-colored, yeah, things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190102	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190104	I have also noted that Mrs Liselott Blixt repeats over and over again, not in the way it has been proposed in the course of the process, but in a different way. However, I do not think that the rapporteur has any concrete suggestions as to what we should do. In concrete terms, Mrs Liselott Blixt: how?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190126	I'm really glad that you're asking me exactly that question, because I've looked at what you did in Norway, looked at what you did in the schools, and looked at the studies that were there. Some studies were carried out in the primary school, where four groups were set up: a group which was not to be dealt with; another group where education was arranged; a third where the student was taken in; and a fourth where parents were also taken in. There they did studies to see what helped, and it actually turned out that they were successful. This is something of the same as the Cancer Combat programme, which teaches students the consequences of their behaviour and teaches them to take responsibility for their own health. They get social support. You actively involve them, so you make contracts with them, and you train them to resist pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190214	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190217	I took note of the rapporteur's statement, and this is in stark contrast to what the Danish Health Authority says in the recommendation in the Cancer Plan IV. There they write that children and young people who are frequently exposed to tobacco products on display in the retail trade have about 60%. increased risk of trying to smoke and about 30 per cent. more likely to start smoking in the future compared to those who are less likely to be exposed to manufactured tobacco. And I would like to ask: is it not true that it is not just faith when the Danish Health Authority says so? Another example is that there is good evidence that the likelihood of starting smoking is reduced when tobacco products are stored, for example. under the counter in the retail trade. This is important, especially in relation to children and young people. Well, evidence isn't just to believe, and this is the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190330	I'm sorry I laugh a little bit, but I don't always believe what the Health Department just brings. I would like to ask whether Mrs Julie Skovsby has the evidence on the basis of which the Danish Health Service is likely to feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190344	Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190346	I mean, I believe that when the National Health Service writes that they have evidence, it has evidence. But let me ask you something about the rapporteur's beliefs, because I also heard the rapporteur say that everyone should be allowed to have their vices. So I would like to ask: does this also apply to children and young people, and is there an age limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190420	I want children and young people to stop smoking. Many of the people we are talking about in youth education are 18 years old. These are some that we regard as adults and that we are actually ready to send to war. These are the ones we want to go in and make legislation for in vocational schools, which are also being talked about at the moment. Loading in children and young people that's where it starts, and that's what we have to prevent, that's what we agree on. We have to solve the social problems, and I am very sorry that the Social Democrats do not want to go in and see whether we can strengthen the mental health that we know means a great deal, including for those who start smoking or the social part of it. You can see in geography, in terms of who it is, and where it starts with getting these vices.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190506	Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190510	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for at least a clear indication here that we share the goal that children and young people do not smoke and stop smoking if they have started smoking. I think the Danish People's Party was told at one point that there was a very aggressive lobbying effort from a number of organisations that are against tobacco. I think it is very remarkable that, on the other hand, we have one of the world's most efficient and wealthy lobbying companies at all, namely the tobacco industry, which spends billions on lobbying, which also sponsors several parties in this Parliament with party support and which is conducting legal proceedings against countries that make decisions that they do not agree with. I just think there was a lack of proportions in the statement made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party before. In my view, it is quite clear that we are dealing with an industry which lobbies massively for their own economic interests, knowing that they have a product that costs every other person who uses it properly, life. I would really like to hear the comments of the Danish People's Party on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190631	First, I want to announce that I don't get a penny from anyone. I'll pay for my campaign and everything myself. Nor do I receive invitations to castle stays, to which I received an invitation from the Danish Cancer Society and all the other patients' associations, because I wanted to speak about prevention. So if I'm going to look at someone who lobbies more than others, I can see who it is I'm being contacted by either by mail or by phone, and who goes to the media, etc. Check in on Twitter now and see how all patient organizations guaranteed twitter that today we all have to agree, because we have to drive their way. That's massive lobbying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190714	Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190716	I do not think there is any doubt about how much money, how much resources and how many employees the tobacco industry has to lobby against all patient organisations who win. The tobacco industry does. Having said that, for me it makes a very big difference what you lobby for. For the tobacco industry lobbies for their own financial interests • unequivocally. That's why they're in the world. They're here in the world to make money from the product they have, knowing it's deadly. Health organisations, Children's Conditions, the municipalities that act on the other hand, lobbies for public health. Isn't there a difference in the universe of the Danish People's Party compared to what you lobby for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190806	For me, everyone who gets in my doorstep is lobbyists. That's the way I survive as a politician. I do not distinguish between one side or the other. They're lobbyists no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190821	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315190832	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by apologizing to Enhedslisten that I was mentioned 90 kr. for a pack of cigarettes. It was good that the rapporteur had it corrected to the effect that the Enhedslisten had an ambition of DKK 60, so it should be in place. First of all, I would like to thank the parties behind today's question debate for raising the debate. Every time we discuss smoking here in the Parliament, we contribute politically to focusing on maintaining the government's 2030 objective. It is perhaps the most ambitious objective in the area of smoking ever that by 2030 we will have the first smoke-free generation in Denmark. And in the Left we stand by our ambition. I welcome the support with which the ambitions have been met from among others. I can also understand the fight against cancer and the Enhedslisten. Because we all know it: smoking is harmful to health. The list of diseases that smoking can cause is too long, so we sincerely want to promote public health, it is crucial that there are politicians who dare to dare the fur, lift the bar and put it high. With the Cancer Plan IV, the patient's cancer plan, and the ambitions of the first smoke-free generation by 2030, we in the Left have wanted to put the bar high. The question is, of course, how we achieve our ambitions. And let it be said straight away: there is not an effort, an actor or a party that can carry out the task alone. We need to get the whole palette in play. It is about our young people and their health, an area that is far too important for one-sided political positioning or pettyness. I will therefore not use my rapporteur's speech to point the finger, either by the Alternative or the Enhedslisten, which will significantly increase the price of cigarettes and thus encourage increased cross-border trade and more illegal cigarettes on the Danish market, or I wonder why the Socialists cannot answer whether, if one day one should move into government offices, one would raise the prices of cigarettes more than the approx. 3 kroner, with which you raised them, last time you were in government. No, I will spend my time on initiatives that point positively to both municipalities, regions and us here at Christiansborg. Together, we have taken the initiative of a brand-new campaign that differs not only by being designed and spoken in young people's languages, being activated on social media with youtubes that young people listen to, but also by running over a number of years. The videos have been shown more than 800,000 times, and that's great. I would like to thank the parties behind the pool for the good cooperation, just as I would like to acknowledge the dialogue we had together in the rapporteur's circle when we discussed the future design of Danish cigarette packages. We have lifted the task, so there are now larger warning images on the packages and a reference to the Stopbar. This has proved to be a good idea, for almost 40%. know about the Stopline numbers qua cigarette packs. A broad majority in the Folketing voted in favour of the changes to the design of cigarette packets. Cigarettes are sold in retail, as you know, and it has been worrying to follow the many stories about young people under the age of 18 who have been able to buy cigarettes. Danish legislation must be complied with. This is also true in the retail trade. Tobacco may not be sold to young people under 18 years of age. I am sincerely pleased that some parts of the retail trade have entered into battle-ready and are willing to take co-responsibility in a completely new way. The good examples are OK The idea in Roskilde and Mad&Vin in Magasin, which has now moved the cigarette packets from the visible shelves of their own motion or completely refused to sell tobacco. It's remarkable. With a new partnership agreement concluded by the Minister of Health with the retail trade, the retail trade is committed, inter alia, to: to demand more ID. We must and must change the culture among young people so that it becomes unfashionable to light the first cigarette and then move down the path where smoking at a party or everyday life is smart. This is why schools play a key role, and the municipalities have a central role to play here. I'm uplifted when I, for example. Reads that Syddjurs Municipality has introduced smoke-free school time and, together with the Cancer Combat programme, Exit focuses on both education and parents. 100 schools have participated in the exit programme, and the experience is good, yes, so good that the figures show that the number of pupils starting to smoke can be halved if all the elements of the exit programme are included. In 2017, the efforts of the municipalities regarding the implementation of the prevention packages were mapped out. There is a lot of playing out there, but there is also room for improvement, and let it be a call for the municipalities to also lift their share of responsibility for us to reach the goal together. 70% of the municipalities have special offers for young people under 18 years of age. I don't think we can quickly agree that we need to bring more. There are municipalities that think creatively and differently when it comes to quitting smoking. In the municipality of Svendborg you have e.g. coupled smoking cessation for physical activity with a walk or a bike ride, and municipalities have entered into a proactive recruitment collaboration with the Stopline, for example. contact residents in certain geographical areas. This makes sense because both parents and grandparents need to be good role models so that a smoking stop offer can move things in the right direction. I have now mentioned several initiatives from the retail trade, municipalities, schools and legislation at Christiansborg, but the regions must also sign up under the tabs and shoulder their share of responsibility for the future of smoking among young people. I have the expectation that the South Denmark Region will shortly enter into the smoke-free future partnership. This is a good opportunity to enter into dialogue with youth education in cooperation to prevent young people from starting to smoke. I have said before, and I would like to repeat this: we must, in line with the very ambitious objective that we in Denmark have the first smoke-free generation in 2030, and then the whole palette of players must be in play. Not an effort, not an initiative, not an actor can do it alone, it is a task for the community. The Left can support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191440	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191443	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Left. Yes, the Left stands by its ambitions, and in the past the Left has had such a logo or motto as it was called: the Left knows where you have. So we know that we have the Left there, that we are going to target by 2030, and that is how it will be, even though former Health Minister Sophie Løhde signed this objective here on 1 April 2016. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur has recently been out on several occasions, among other things. in Denmark's Radio and the newspaper Denmark to indicate that the Left is ready to look at, as the rapporteur has said, minor adjustments to tobacco taxes. Is it to be understood that raising tobacco taxes is the government's policy, or is it the policy of the Left alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191534	I should like to stress here, and I have done so in the past, that we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have ongoing discussions on, among others. smoking. We have discussions about what initiatives we expect to guide us can point in the right direction. And that also applies to the price of cigarettes. We are discussing this on an ongoing basis, and we have a tradition of discussing initiatives; there is nothing new about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191605	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191606	Thank you very much for your answer. It must be understood in this way that the Left is able to take special positions in relation to the government's overall policy when it comes to statements made by the rapporteur. Does this also mean that it is still the policy of the Left, but not the policy of the government, that smoke-free school hours should be introduced and that smoking rules should be harmonised between vocational schools and high schools, as the former Minister for Health, Sophie Løhde, said, was the clear position of the then Left Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191645	It will almost be a repeat of the answer from before. After all, we are constantly discussing in the Left Group initiatives which can point either one way or the other. After all, it is no secret that a narrow Left Government turned into a slightly wider Tripartite Government, and this has naturally led to some adjustments. I am sure that if the rapporteur thinks back just a few years, he himself will remember what it is like to engage in intergovernmental cooperation. However, this does not change the fact that we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, for which I am here as a representative, are discussing which initiatives we believe can point in the right direction when it comes to ensuring that fewer young people start smoking, and that, moreover, we naturally support the government's objective of the first smoke-free generation in Denmark by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191741	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191746	Thank you. We have seen Lars Løkke say recently: basically, I have the view that cigarettes must be more expensive for reasons of prevention. We have seen Stephanie Lose, a significant health policy voice in the Left, say that she believes that cigarettes should be significantly more expensive, and she also calls for other measures, such as those to be looked at. neutral tobacco packages and non-smoking school hours. We have also seen group chairman Søren Gade out with a call for some of the same things. I actually expected that when the Left has its health rapporteur on the platform, they will tell us what the policy of the Left is. Because I actually understand the argument that when you are part of a government, you make some compromises and you do not get your whole policy through, but that is why I think it would be very interesting to hear: what is really the policy of the Left? Because that gives us some prospects in terms of what we can do in the future. I think it would be absolutely crucial and very, very strong if we had a majority as broad as possible behind making some of the changes that need to be made in order to push for a cultural change in Denmark. So I would like, if the Left rapporteur could say a little more about, regardless of the fact that the government has a different policy: what is the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191902	I would remind you that when we speak of the Prime Minister, we do so by title and not by name. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315191910	Let me start by saying that we in the Left fully support the government's policy. We support the changes that have been made, for example. the expression on the cigarette packages, we support the initiatives we have taken in the rate pool for a campaign, we support the Security Authority as a very good bid to ensure that more young people show identification. We support the initiative of the Minister of Health for a partnership, and I certainly support Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who is a wise man when he moves into the path where he says that minor adjustments can be an option. I completely share that. What is just important to us in the Left when we talk about adjustments to cigarette prices is that we do so balanced that we do not encourage increased cross-border trade on the one hand and, on the other, we do not encourage more illegal cigarettes on the Danish market. That is, in effect, what is important to us. But I fully support Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the statements he has made, just as I support the government's policy in the area of smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192026	Does Stine Brix wish to make another brief comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192033	Thank you. This made me at least a little bit wiser, that is, that there could be a perspective in the future for the Left to help counter the fact that cigarettes are very cheap in Denmark compared to other countries. I do not understand why there is so much emphasis on cross-border trade, because what we are dealing with here is, on the one hand, the need to achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation and, on the other hand, to prevent children and young people starting to smoke, that is to say, children's health, and, on the other hand, economic considerations. Why is it that the Left places such great emphasis on the economic importance of border trade in relation to the second objective of ensuring children's health and reducing the incidence of the many, many tobacco deaths that we have here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192122	After all, I mentioned two parameters which are important to us in relation to the possible adjustment of cigarette prices. I mentioned cross-border trade as one point and that it should be balanced so that we do not encourage increased cross-border trade, and on the other hand I also mentioned the possibility that we will be able to see more illegal cigarettes on the Danish market if we raise prices significantly and neither of them is appropriate, let alone if we bear in mind the objective and ambition that we want the first smoke-free generation in Denmark by 2030. This is an extremely ambitious objective and we want to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192207	Mrs Skovsby, on a brief note.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192212	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur praise the initiative for this debate today and welcome the fact that we are talking about the objective and objective of the government for a smoke-free generation by 2030, and the rapporteur also said that we support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward together. Then I am actually just wondering why the target of a smoke-free generation has not been mentioned by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192251	It is quite true that I am very pleased that the red parties are raising the question debate here. I am also very pleased to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur state clearly that it supports the government's ambition for a smoke-free generation by 2030. I also have the expectation that we may even hear from the Social Democratic Party today that we support the ambition of a smoke-free generation by 2030. We have put forward a proposal for adoption and we agree on that text. I am absolutely sure that if you look at the text of the adoption from the red block, it is also a text that you agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192325	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192330	Now, of course, we have reached that point in the debate, where both texts have been submitted for adoption. And yes, there is in the red block mentioned the objective of a smoke-free generation in 2030, but that the Danish Parliament also notes that it does not seem realistic to achieve this objective with the very limited measures that the government has put forward so far, and then there is a longer text. The very, very short text presented by the government with the support of the Danish People's Party does not mention the objective. Why not? Why hasn't the Left taken care of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192416	Well, in our text we have a focus on children and young people. It is also in the last line, if I do not remember quite wrong, now I do not have the text in front of me here. What is really important to me is exactly what initiatives have been taken, and the government has taken a number of initiatives. And now I have the text sneaked in here from the right, I wish it were from the left, but thank you for that, President. After all, the government has taken a number of initiatives. Some of them I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech and I would also like to add a little. I could mention the partnership for a smoke-free future. I did not mention that here. I could also mention the marked tobacco focus, which is in the health promotion pool. Now, of course, I have mentioned the initiatives to change the terms of the packages, and I have mentioned the Security Authority in relation to enforcement. It is just to say that there is a certain diversity in the initiatives taken by the government. So I just have to say that it is simply factually wrong when Mrs Julie Skovsby claims that no initiatives have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192524	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192528	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for mentioning that the rapporteur would not mention that the alternative would like to raise the prices of cigarettes and raise the taxes. Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that an increase in the price of cigarettes, i.e. an increase in the tax, is the most effective means of preventing children and young people from smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192603	From my chair, there are many initiatives that need to be taken if we are to achieve the goal of the first smoke-free generation by 2030. In fact, I think I said several times in my rapporteur's speech that it is not one initiative, that it is not one actor and that it is not one government, but that it is really a multitude of initiatives and that the whole palette must be in play if we are to secure the first smoke-free generation by 2030. After all, it is everything from the initiatives that the government can take, the initiatives that we can take together in the Folketing, the initiatives that are being taken in the municipalities and regions, in schools, and this is about parents, and I could talk for a very long time. But it is just to give the rapporteur the impression that the palette is quite wide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192646	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192649	My question was more about whether the rapporteur recognises that experts and those who, like researchers and health professionals, have to do with diseases, cancer, etc., point out that the most effective tool in getting children and young people not to smoke is to raise the price, raise the tax on cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192720	I would like to repeat what I said before, and I would also like to repeat what I said in my rapporteur's speech, in other words that, from my chair, it is several initiatives to ensure that we have the first smoke-free generation by 2030. It is not one initiative, it is not one actor, it is not one government, but it is the whole palette that is going to play. As I also concluded by saying in my rapporteur's speech: it is from my chair a joint responsibility that we ensure that fewer children and young people smoke in future Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192753	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315192803	Thank you. There is no doubt that tobacco is unhealthy and that it can kill you. As with anything else that is dangerous, you have to decide what you want to expose yourself and your body to. I would like to say again that I and the Liberal Alliance believe that it is one's own responsibility and that one should have the freedom to choose for oneself how to live one's life. We must have neither social democrats nor other health apostles decide what is the good life for each individual citizen. Politicians and authorities must continue to state what consequences smoking can have, that you can get cancer from it and that you can die from it and then it is up to citizens to make their own choice on an informed basis. In the case of children, it is the parents'responsibility to raise their own children. It is neither the responsibility of the state nor the politicians nor the task of raising the children of the citizens. What's it gonna end with? According to the health apostles, the second biggest health problem is that people eat unhealthy and are overweight and exercise too little. So we're gonna put all the unhealthy stuff away in the shops? Should politicians write diets for citizens and legislate that all citizens, for example. Got to run two kilometers every day? No, right? Then why do we have to play hide-and-seek with the cigarettes? Why should the state play parents and hide the unhealthy things away from the citizens? We talk so much about curling parents, while left-wing politicians want to turn the state into a super-partisan curling state. We live in a world filled with temptations, and we need to be able to deal with these temptations ourselves. If we ourselves are not old enough to take a position, it is the parents' job, not the state, to dress children and young people to take responsibility for ourselves. After all, ingenuity will never end for the Social Democracy and Flemming Møller Mortensen in their proposals to decide how the Danes should live their lives according to what Mr. Mortensen thinks is the right way to live. The list of proposals from the Social Democratic Party and from various other sides is long. We can start with smoke-free hours. This means that you cannot smoke at home in your own home if you work from home or are at home for lunch. Nor can you stand alone in an open field and smoke if it is during lunch. Then there is the proposal for the conversion of shops, so there will be a special box only for cigarettes. Then there are higher taxes, although about three quarters of the price is already VAT and taxes. Then there are so-called neutral cigarette packs, although under no circumstances can the packages be called neutral, since most of them are already filled with disgusting images of death and destruction. Then there's this hide-and-seek where we play dad, mom and kids. Flemming and Social Democracy are father and mother, and the citizens are children. Then Mr. Holler is hiding. Flemming Møller Mortensen and the Social Democratic Party licked the children so that they can't find it and lift the index finger and tell the children, that is to say the citizens, that you can't do that: Few shame is finally forbidden. And McEwan would probably have continued to say, but what do we have to do? Yeah, what's next? Should we then start introducing all sorts of bans and regulations against sweets and sweets and then some commands on how much and how little each individual Dane should exercise, and should one show up and weight be checked a certain number of times a week? So back to the proposals. There is also this proposal to spend 20 million. kr. to children's agents and proposals for tobacco subsidies, which will result in bureaucracy for all those who comply with the law. But it's just not the kind of society that I or the Liberal Alliance want. We want to respect citizens as independent people who have the right to make their own decisions and have a responsibility for their own lives. Finally, I cannot understand why politics in Denmark should be so black and white when it comes to smoking policy. Why is it either smoking or not smoking? Why not do as in many other countries where damage reduction measures are being looked at? In England there are large advertisements for e-cigarettes. In Norway, a very large proportion of young people use snuff instead of smoking, and there are also other harmful products on the market. Why are we not doing something to reduce the number of cancers and deaths through harm-reduction policies rather than just focusing on smoking or not smoking? The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption, which was read out by Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193247	There are requests for short comments from the preliminary three. The first is sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193253	I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for that speech. It was almost poetic, though. At any rate, it was written by the chief strategist of the Liberal Alliance and an attitudeist, I could clearly hear that. But I have to say that something better needs to be read out of the text before you get a factual and proper rapporteur's speech out of it. But I'll print it and save it. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. The rapporteur spoke on several occasions about personal freedom, and it is, of course, a question of whether we should be allowed to do things or whether we should not be allowed to do so, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur how old the Liberal Alliance thinks we should be before personal freedom is more important than taking joint responsibility on the part of society. And this is about kids and kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193355	I believe, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, and as I have said incredibly many times before, that responsibility for the upbringing of children is the responsibility of parents. If you are not old enough to take responsibility yourself, it is your parents'responsibility. It is not politicians or the state that should raise the children, it is the parents. And I think I've said that a lot of times before. By the way, I also believe that young people have a responsibility themselves. We must not constantly talk over the heads of young people. How should young people ever become responsible adults if they never learn to take responsibility in their entire childhood or youth? Life is filled with challenges and temptations, and we need to learn to deal critically with it and make decisions in life that concern ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193454	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193457	Thank you. It's a clear speech. I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur believes that we should cancel the tobacco advertising law and the smoking law. I ask because the consequence could then be that cigarette advertising could then be put on school milk and the law could be annulled so that all schoolyards in primary school and all other schools could be smoked. Does the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur think that we should roll things back? Remove the tobacco advertising law and the smoking law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193541	I believe that protection against passive smoking, which is the purpose of the smoking law, must be maintained. I believe that you should not be exposed to passive smoking when you are indoors in public premises or other places where there are many people together. There I think we should be exempt from passive smoking, which is why I think it is very good that there is a smoking ban in all public premises.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193613	Mrs Julie Skovsby for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193617	Thank you for that answer. Then I would like to reiterate the issue of the 2001 Tobacco Advertising Act. Do you want it rolled back if it's for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193631	We don't have plans at this point. on amending any of the existing legislation, but we will not be in favour of further regulation and legislation either. We do not believe that this is the way forward. Since the 1950s, we have seen that the number of smokers in Denmark has decreased steadily, and in much of the period there has been no regulation and no legislation. Over the last five years, the decline has stagnated, and it is during the period that has been the most regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193702	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193705	The last thing we have seen is that more children and young people have started smoking. When the rapporteur says that children and young people are parents' responsibilities, I would like to ask something: whose responsibility is it that children and young people can buy cigarettes because shops and retailers violate legislation and sell cigarettes to children and young people under the age of 18?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193739	If I take the last thing first: Applicable legislation must always be respected, and it is the responsibility of the shops to comply with the law, and they must not sell to children and young people under the age of 18, so it is the responsibility of the shops to comply with the law. The first thing you said was that we are now seeing a stagnation in the decline in the number of smokers. Yes, and isn't it remarkable that this is the first time since the 1950s that we have seen a stagnation in the number of smokers and it is even while we have had the most regulation and legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193818	I would remind you that we do not use direct indictment. Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193826	I think the rapporteur took advantage of the well-known rhetorical trick called straw-man argumentation in his rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur said, among other things:: What will be next? Do you have to hide candy under the counter or chips under the counter or anything else? No one has proposed that, and there is a reason for that, because there are no other legal products which, when used completely according to the regulations, kill every other user. There are no products like tobacco. And that is why we are proposing to use tools that are otherwise not used, for example. in relation to the introduction of tobacco under the counter, or in relation to eliminating the opportunities for industry to brand the various products. So I would like to ask the rapporteur not to use this type of straw-man argument and to confirm that no one has proposed it, as the rapporteur otherwise caricatured in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315193932	The reason why I emphasize it is that it is widely known that the second largest problem in Denmark is unhealthy diet, too little exercise and overweight; that it is huge sums spent on it in Denmark; and that it is very many people who have problems with it. So it would be very natural to think that it would then be the next step. I do not think that is so far away, and that is certainly not the way the Liberal Alliance wants to go either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194005	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194007	There is no physical inactivity, poor diet, alcohol, drug-related deaths... all things combined do not come up to the level of tobacco and what tobacco does alone. I can also ask in another way: can the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance point to another product which, when you use it completely, as you are supposed to use it, kills every other person who uses it? Is anyone just coming near it? Is that not in itself an argument for tobacco being a very special product, which is why we must also discuss how, in the view of the Liberal Alliance, we deal with it in a very special way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194055	I still think it is extremely important that we provide information on how dangerous it is to smoke. We can see that it has worked since the 1950s, where approx. 60% We are now down to 22 per cent, and if we only take daily smokers, we are down to 17 per cent, and this has been done through information. It is a change of culture that has taken place in society and it is not something we should or can legislate about from in here. It has just come from information on how dangerous it is and the factors that the rapporteur has just highlighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194129	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194133	Thank you. This week I had the opportunity to have a discussion with some young men who had all started smoking before they were 18 years old. All of them, as one, would have preferred us to comply with the law so that it would not have been possible for them to buy these cigarettes so that they had started smoking. In fact, they were sure that if we had made sure that they had not had access to tobacco, they would probably not have smoked at all today. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur seriously believes that we should give no thought to violations of law which are going on and which are the reason why more and more young people under the age of 18 are starting to smoke too soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194222	No, we should certainly not give a damn about breaking the law, and I have already answered that at once. Applicable legislation must be complied with and it is the responsibility of the retail trade to comply with the legislation in force. And the legislation says that cigarettes should not be sold to children and young people under the age of 18. And it is the duty of the retail trade to comply with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194247	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194249	However, I would just like to point out that the media repeatedly observe that, unfortunately, the retail trade is not complying with the law. And that is one of the reasons why these young men had very easy access to the tobacco which is now the reason why they are actually dependent on tobacco and need help to be free from smoking if that is how they have to stop smoking again. I wonder whether the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur have any desire whatsoever for fewer young people to start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194329	We certainly have. I don't think anyone should smoke; I just shouldn't decide. But it is quite clear that it would be fantastic if people did not smoke, because it is unhealthy and it is dangerous, and there should be no doubt about that. With regard to the fact that we want to stop and there is legislation, I would say that these young people, whom the rapporteur has spoken to, are buying these things and they would like the law to be observed, because they really do not want to buy them. Why, then, does the rapporteur think that further regulation and legislation would prevent this? We've banned cannabis, and you can get it on every street corner from Gedser to Møn, I almost said, from Gedser to Skagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194410	There are no more short comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is the Pernille Schnoor alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315194420	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Magasin. There are several who have mentioned Magasin today in their speech. I think it is fantastic that a private company shows social responsibility and takes up the fight against a tobacco industry and tobacco producers who sell and market toxic and addictive products for our children and young people. And as I mentioned earlier in one of the questions, the products contain 4,000 chemical compounds, even when inhaled by children and young people who smoke cigarettes. So thanks to Magasin for being brave and being more brave and taking more responsibility than we actually do here in the Folketing. I hope it will create an effect so that it will spread and that it will also have an effect in this Parliament. I would also like to start by saying that we have come a long way, fortunately. Now several people have mentioned something about their own personal experiences with cigarettes. I can share a single experience because when I was a kid, it was perfectly normal for everyone to smoke. When we were going somewhere, which we often had to take my mom and dad and me, we were sitting in our car with closed windows, and then both my parents were smoking. They sat and smoked in that car, and if I said that now I was feeling a little bad and driving sick, and if I was not allowed to open the window, then the answer was no, because it shrugged my shoulders, and then it hurts your neck. So we drove for hours to Germany and Sweden and Norway and all sorts of places with closed windows, while both my parents were smoking continuously and I sat in the backseat there, yes, I was actually lying down, because you didn't have to wear a seat belt back then either. So, fortunately, times have changed, and thank you for that. I am glad that this is the case, because children should simply not be exposed to passive smoking. I think it is absolutely crazy that I was exposed in this way to two adults who were sitting and smoking in my head continuously. That is why I am pleased that we are putting this debate on today. And I would also like to say that I am also speaking on behalf of the rapporteur of the Radicals who, unfortunately, could not be here because she is taking part in a debate in a ministry. As several of my colleagues have already pointed out, smoking is, without comparison, the single factor which is most important for public health in Denmark. Smoking is the reason why we die significantly earlier than they do in our neighbouring countries and is responsible for 14 000 deaths a year in this country. Unfortunately, the recently published national health profile published by the Danish Health Service shows that the decline in the number of smokers has stagnated and that the proportion of young smokers has increased. It is highly disturbing and, to put it mildly, a health disaster which should have the consequence that prevention efforts in Denmark are being reviewed so that we can reverse that trend. The Danish method of prevention has been relatively narrow and one-stringed. It has been largely based on information in the form of information campaigns and labelling, etc. and about the so-called KRAM factors, in other words diet and smoking, etc., which are based on an idea that greater knowledge leads people to opt out of the unhealthy. In other words, the Danish effort is based on an idea that people are acting rationally and that it is therefore a question of informing about the dangerous consequences of the unhealthy habits. This signals that the citizen himself must take responsibility for his own body and his own health and above all have the freedom to make his own choices. The problem is that if you say that health is a personal responsibility and a result solely of personal choices, then it logically follows that illness is also the responsibility of the individual and it can in itself be a burden on the individual. If we look towards Sweden, we can see that the main headline is the broad health responsibility for a healthy life. In addition, living conditions in Sweden have been mentioned much more explicitly in the causes of disease than they have been in Denmark. The point is that a focus on personal responsibility can cause feelings of guilt over relationships that you don't even have a say in. It is not only the responsibility of the individual; it is also the responsibility of society; it is our responsibility as politicians. The politicians at Christiansborg are all agreed that I'm already finished? I'm on page two, okay? Well, I'm gonna skip a paragraph here, I guess. In the alternative, we will raise the price of cigarettes. We have put forward a proposal on last year, and we are doing so again this year. We believe that if the government takes it seriously that we have to achieve the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030 we do, and I think the government is doing that too, as indicated in the cancer plan IV, then we simply have to see things in a different way than we have done before. So we believe that we need to increase the tax because we know that it works. I think I have to sum up: unfortunately we are faced with an obvious, huge problem, but fortunately we also have obvious solutions which we from other countries know can make a difference and break the negative development in Denmark. So let us do something for our children, and let us make use of the tools we know and which work so that we can achieve the government's goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. It became a highly shortened version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195108	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to SF's rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195124	Thank you very much. The former Left Government's ambition for a smoke-free generation in 2030 has formed the basis for a great many debates in the Folketing, and although it is an ambitious goal, the ambition has also enjoyed broad support in the Folketing. But it is free politics if the fine ambitions are not followed by action. The real challenge is that more young people under 18 again turn on cigarettes, and that is not just a false development; it is also a paradox that the sale of tobacco to young people under 18 years of age is banned. Nevertheless, the media can repeatedly prove that young people under 18 years of age can buy cigarettes without major problems. That is why, of course, I would not fail to mention that it would have been quite obvious to vote in favour of a SF proposal to move cigarettes away from the cashlines in the supermarkets, which are often served by young people under 18 years of age, and instead to allow sales to take place at special cashlines or in kiosk departments, which can be served by adults, as some major supermarkets do already. And it also makes sense to move cigarettes under the counter, just as anonymous cigarette packs can avoid tempting with delicious brands. Then, to put it mildly, it is incomprehensible to most people that the milk is rising in price as wages and prices develop, while the prices of cigarettes have not changed since 2014. That is precisely what has made tobacco prices in Denmark some of the lowest in Europe. Most young smokers themselves say that they wish we had effectively prevented them from buying their first cigarettes, since they would hardly have started if they had been smoke-free at 18 years of age. It is therefore also a paradox that smoking is allowed in some youth education programmes, but not in others. And it is a fact that the difference is to be seen. Significantly more young people in vocational training are smoking in proportion to the number of their peers in high schools. What's there to think about? But we need to do even more. There is hardly a single Dane who does not recognise that smoking is harmful to health, and the vast majority of smokers would rather not want to quit. Therefore, it is not the motivation that is wrong, but many who have tried it themselves acknowledge that it can be really difficult. So, although the safest way to a smoke-free generation by 2030 is to prevent young people from starting to smoke, we also need to make massive efforts to help smokers who want to be smoke-free. This applies especially to citizens who have been smoking for many years. But smoking is so addictive that a massive effort should also be made to help young people in education to stop smoking. I think it would be a strong signal if we were to concentrate briefly on putting action behind the fine words. That is why the SF also supports the proposal for adoption by Mrs Stine Brix. Allow me to conclude by thanking, as others have done, the many patient associations, professional organisations, municipalities, regions and associations, etc., which, in connection with this particular debate, send a strong call to the Danish Parliament to make words into action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195447	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195459	Today we are discussing a question which deals with the social problems of smoking. Thank you to the opposition for asking this question. Tobacco is the biggest killer, and it is an extremely important subject which is good to discuss. Several of us participated yesterday in the Cancer Combat Conference entitled "A smoke-free generation who takes responsibility" and we were given the opportunity to discuss the challenges of smoking, prevention and interventions for which we all have a responsibility. As several have already mentioned, the government has a clear objective that we should have a smoke-free generation by 2030. We believe that we owe it to our children that they will live a healthy and long life. In order to achieve this goal, the government is exploring a wide range of actions, including: has there been a really positive response to the video campaign "But Why?', which has just been evaluated for the first time. 19% of the young apartment smokers have cut down on consumption because of this campaign. Tobacco smoking is a problem that kills 13,600 Danes every year, and that is a figure that we must take very seriously. Every day, 40 young people start smoking, which is also serious. That is why we also need to be ready to look at how we can do better. This requires both political cooperation, cooperation with parents and retail trade, and everyone taking responsibility for preventing our young people from starting to smoke. Finally, I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195659	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195711	Thank you for a good debate and for the speeches that have been made. This is a good opportunity to also discuss the government's ambitious goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. It is an ambitious objective, as some parties have also said, namely that we share the wish that children and young people should not smoke, but we do not believe that the goal can be achieved by 2030. That is now the government's objective, and it is also important to have an ambitious target in this area, because smoking is not just a major public health problem, it is a very big problem, and we know that there are 13,600 Danes who die prematurely every year from smoking-related diseases and die as a result of smoking. 85% The Danes also support the goal that no children and young people should smoke by 2030, which is why I also find that there is a great deal of support in the Danish population that we have a special responsibility when it comes to children and young people. It is also important to say that the government's focus throughout this discussion on tobacco is to take a great deal of responsibility to prevent children and young people starting to smoke. It is then a responsibility that must be lifted in many parts of society, as I also said in my opening remarks, if we are to ensure that we reach the target and if we are to ensure that young people do not start smoking or that young people who have started smoking stop smoking. That is also why, in this area, we have taken a number of initiatives and, of course, also with the initiatives we have to take in relation to enforcement, which require amendment of the law, that I will be inviting the parties of the Folketing to a broad debate on how we also ensure that the legislation we have in Denmark in the area of tobacco, when it comes to having a ban on sales to children and young people, is enforced, so that we do not see children and young people who can buy cigarettes in stores when we have legislation that says they should not be allowed to do so. So I look forward to having the opportunity in detail to discuss these matters in the negotiations we will have here a little later this spring. But thanks for the broad support for the government's goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. I think it is nice to see that when it comes to a focus on children and young people, we agree that we have a special responsibility there in relation to adult people who make independent, informed choices on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195946	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's for sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315195951	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Let us now put aside all such party discussion and government and opposition debate, let us try to focus on what is forward-looking. I think that the proposal for adoption by the red parties is an opening to the government in relation to us inviting ourselves to the ministry, if the Minister accepts it, for a debate on an action plan on tobacco. I am very pleased that we have taken such a concrete initiative and put it up to the Minister and the Government, and that is why I just want to hear whether the Minister and the Government accept the extended hand that we can gather together and try to face up to the seriousness. The minister says there are a lot of people who have to take responsibility. This is a signal on our part that we can try to stand together as Parliament, as we do in other contexts, in ethical or other areas, for example. about the genome center where we can agree. Does the Minister accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200107	I think it is important to distinguish between different things. We are going to have a debate here in the spring of smoking legislation in relation to enforcement, where, as part of the Better Balance II initiative, the government has said that we will strengthen the enforcement of the legislation and also provide a special legal basis to the Security Agency, which is already in the retail trade • about 1,300 times they were out visiting shops last year so that they can ensure that there is better enforcement of the rules we have, which are very much about banning the sale of tobacco, but also alcohol, to children under 18 and 16 years of age respectively. There we will have the opportunity to discuss what other parties now want to move forward. However, I have to say that when I read the proposal for adoption by the Red Parties, I can see that a whole series of initiatives have been listed, in which I just have to say that the government does not share the view that this is the way to go. We also had a consultation on tobacco on Tuesday at the counter, and the government takes the view that there is nothing to prevent shops putting the tobacco under the counter. I myself have been involved today, when Magasin has removed cigarettes from the shelf as the first major retail chain in Northern Europe. So, of course, there is a separation between the waters, in relation to whether legislation is necessary and whether prohibition is necessary in all these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200223	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200226	Minister, I'm so sorry. Because this ignores all the talk and political intention that this is a serious area, and then you will not call the Folketing for a discussion on this. I am deeply disappointed, and then there are all those who had to sit out there and have heard all the serious voices about 44,000 children and young people, 13,600 Danes every year, and then the Minister will not even call the rapporteurs for a debate. So let me ask you something else. The Minister has said that it was interesting that the Social Democratic Party proposed a licensing system whereby the retail trade should be deprived of the right to sell tobacco if they repeatedly violate it. There the Minister said: that sounds interesting, I would like to take part in the debate. Will it be discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200326	I think the rapporteur should listen to what I said. I say that we will have negotiations on the smoking law later this spring as a consequence of the initiative taken by the government to tighten up enforcement in the tobacco sector. There are parties who are welcome to come up with other proposals. I just clearly indicated that some of the proposals contained in the proposal for adoption put forward by the red parties, among others. the fact that the retail trade should be forced to move the tobacco under the counter is not a proposal that the government shares. That does not change the fact that we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss different things. I can also repeat what I said earlier: we are happy to look at whether the consequences of repeated infringements of the ban that exist today should lead to something other than a fine, namely a sales ban for a period of time. And that is one of the things that we will also have the opportunity to discuss in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200417	Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200421	Thank you. When the Minister says that we need to look at our legislation and enforcement, I would like to ask whether this also means that new legislation can be made, and whether the Minister and the Government are interested in the fact that the Danish Parliament is broadly drafting new legislation in this area and bringing together the many different initiatives. I have heard the Minister say so many times that there is not one measure that will solve this, but that there are several things we need to do and do. So a comprehensive national action plan must be the way forward, and is that what the government and the minister want to discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200509	As far as enforcement is concerned, we need to change legislation in this area, and that is why we need to have negotiations, and that is also why we have discussed, in consultation, what the timeline is then for the treatment of such a bill and when it will be possible to enter into force, and that the Security Agency should have legal responsibility in relation to being those who are going to check whether the retail trade complies with the sales ban that we have today and which is very clear from the law: you cannot sell tobacco to children and young people under the age of 18. Unfortunately, however, we can see that this happens too many times. There we are going to ensure that there are more muscles behind the control of it, because this ban must be respected, and this also means that there will be changes in the legislation, and in this connection the parties of the Danish Parliament will be called for negotiations here a little later this spring to discuss these matters, because it will have to be adopted here in the Danish Parliament in order to be able to enter into force so that the Danish Security Authority can get out and do the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200603	The questioner, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200605	I would be so happy if a majority in the Folketing succeeded in ensuring that no cigarettes are sold to children and young people. As a parent and a human being, I will be so happy if I succeed. But there is more to be done, because that is not enough. I understand that the Minister is really opposed to it precisely on the subject of tobacco under the counter and neutral cigarette packets, and I would like to know whether it is the case that, before we have these discussions and before we completely sweep measures off the table and say that we do not want to, we will be presented by the government, who it is not for the benefit of, that is, who it is, who it is, who it is that we are going to suffer if we introduce neutral cigarette packages and we hide the cigarettes away?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200701	I think the rapporteur is living in some misconception of what I, as Minister for Health and as a government, think about cigarettes under the counter. There's nothing to stop the stores from putting cigarettes under the counter. Today I have been out to praise, because I helped remove the cigarettes from the shelves down in Magasin, the OK tank in Roskilde, which in December as a small self-employed person chose to say that they would also like to take responsibility and then put their cigarettes under the counter. There is nothing in the legislation that prevents shops from doing so, and I can only encourage them to get started, rather today than tomorrow, so that there is no visible tobacco above the box line.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200740	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200742	I must admit that I am a little disappointed with the proposal for adoption made today by the blue block, because it does not even contain a statement that we agree on the vision of a smoke-free generation by 2030, and it does not contain a single initiative in relation to what we are going to do to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. So my question to the Minister is really: does the Minister think it is realistic to achieve that goal by 2030 when the Folketing is not doing anything and when the government is not doing anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200819	I used my whole initial answer both to say how we achieve the objective, that it is an ambitious goal and that we cannot achieve it alone, and to a large number of initiatives from campaigns to better enforcement and to smoking cessation medicines. These are initiatives that must help to ensure that we reach the goal of ambition, too, if we look at enforcement that the government has recently taken to focus precisely on the fact that children and young people should not smoke, that they should not be allowed to buy tobacco. The proposal for adoption is short. I haven't heard that that in 150 words means that it has to be 150 words. It notes the historical development and, unfortunately, the fact that we are seeing more children and young people smoking. This is a problem and it is a development that we are following closely. That the Blue Block does not agree to support the government's objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, I really think that the DF's rapporteur said very clearly from the platform. So if we had a proposal for adoption where we had it, it would mean that the Danish People's Party supported that objective. That is the aim of the government, which I am in favour of, and I think that this proposal for adoption strongly indicates that we must follow this closely and that there is a concern about the trend of more young smokers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200929	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315200930	The only thing that says in the proposal for adoption that the Folketing should do is to follow developments. We are dealing with the absolutely greatest problem of health in Denmark, as the Minister himself said, and that is the only thing that the blue block thinks should be done. That's extremely unambitious. I find it extremely disappointing. One of the things that the Minister attached great importance to in his speech was that it is about changing culture. Does the Minister recognise that legislation can help change culture and that, for example, the smoking law has been of great importance for changing culture in Denmark? So, how can changing culture and using legislation as a tool become a contradiction? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201018	Well, it's not. Some things work well with legislation, but I just don't believe that bans and legislation and patronage are taking us anywhere. I don't think that's the right solution for everything either. It's a combination of different things. My own party stood for the Smoking Act, which helped to ensure that we could have smoke-free environments, and that we Danes, whom we are the most, are not exposed to passive smoke in our workplace and in schools and other places where people come into everyday life; it has meant a great deal. To the point that the proposal for adoption should list everything that I said in my introduction, I should like to say that I think the proposal shows that there is a problem with children and young people, and we are following this closely. We have different solutions for what needs to be done. The government has some, the Danish People's Party has some other, the red block has some different, depending on which of you you are asked. However, I see that what is important is that we follow this and that we take it seriously politically, because it is important that children and young people do not smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201111	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201114	Thank you. Following on from what Mrs Stine Brix also mentions, I wonder if the Minister could have thought, so much so that the majority's adoption text was not only a promise to keep an eye on developments, but had also given concrete commitments to put action behind words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201142	I do not know where the fact that a proposal for adoption must always be 150 words and that it must list everything comes from. I used my whole introduction to tell you about the initiatives we are taking. I'd be happy to be in line with government policy in this area. We have also had several discussions on what trends we can follow, including in other countries. Where is it that we can do more? Where can we also support a development that ensures that children and young people do not meet tobacco, whether it is in schools or elsewhere where it is the responsibility of the municipalities? We also take responsibility. Most recently, we have taken the initiative to tighten up enforcement. In fact, I think it is very important that we tighten up enforcement because, unfortunately, it is too easy to buy tobacco as a child and as a young person in Denmark. We can see that the retail trade does not comply sufficiently with the ban that we have in the legislation. That is why it needs to be enforced more. This is just the latest initiative that we have taken in relation to the issue of putting concrete action behind it. That is why I do not need it in a proposal for adoption, because we are taking the initiatives that are needed, also in order to support the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201242	The questioner, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201244	I am sorry, Minister, but I simply believe that the government's proposal for a smoke-free generation by 2030 is a free policy if it is not followed by concrete actions as well. I have listened to the Minister talking about partnership agreements with the retail trade, but perhaps we should just bet whether it is true that the next time Politiken or TV 2 or the other media go out and investigate whether the retail trade complies with these smoking rules in relation to young people under the age of 18, it is clear again that the retail trade does not. We have known for a very, very long time that the retail trade does not. So I think the Minister owes an answer to: what are we doing to ensure that young people under the age of 18 cannot buy tobacco?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201335	We take many initiatives. We're stepping up enforcement. This is what is included in the government's proposal Better Balance II in order to ensure that the Danish Security Authority gets more muscles to control the stores. Last year they were out in stores more than 1,300 times. It is the right place to place greater enforcement of the rules that we have, because children and young people must not be able to buy tobacco, and the legislation is very clear in this area. Then I have to say that I am a little puzzled because now I have heard from several of the rapporteurs, including myself, I think the SF's rapporteur, that it is important to listen to what the Danish Health Authority says and that what the Danish Health Authority has recommended in their professional introduction to Cancer Plan IV is important. I just have to say that the Danish Health Authority has also recommended a partnership with the retail trade, but I understand that you should not listen to this if you listen to the SF rapporteur. It is perhaps a little paradoxical that you should listen to something, but not to anything else, if it is up to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201423	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201425	Thank you. I would like to recognise the Government and the Left's objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. The problem is that the number of young people who smoke is increasing. We have heard that many times today. 37 per cent. of the pupils in vocational schools smoke daily. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister believes that the government can achieve the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030 by using the tools that are being used now and by leaving responsibility to industry and to shops.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201502	We leave neither the responsibility to the industry nor to the shops, but in relation to the retail trade, on the basis of recommendations from the Danish Health Authority, we have created a partnership with the retail trade. In addition, we are taking a legislative initiative which, as such, also requires resources to ensure better enforcement of the rules that we have today, which prohibit the sale of tobacco to children and young people, because, unfortunately, we can see that it is not being observed everywhere. And that is because there is a reason why we have this ban because we do not have to sell tobacco to children and young people, and that is why we also need stronger enforcement in this area. In addition, I used my initial speech to say what we are doing as a government, from campaigns and quit smoking medicine to better enforcement and other initiatives to ensure a smoke-free generation by 2030. But I also said very clearly that this is not an objective that we can achieve alone. It requires local commitment, it requires that all actors increase their share, whether you are a school or a retail trade, or in other ways you can help to ensure that we ensure that young people do not take over our parents' generation's bad habits when it comes to tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201607	The questioner, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201608	That is a slightly different question. Does the Minister consider that all the choices we make and the choices made by children and young people are rationally conditional? Tobacco is addictive. I myself experienced once, when I was young and smoked, feeling that it took control of my own decisions. Does the Minister think that by arguing rationally and doing some rational things, we can make children and young people stop smoking and create a smoke-free generation by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201647	I really think I have said it several times today. I think there's a big difference between whether we're talking about adults who can make an informed choice on their own behalf. Then you and I can think that starting to smoke has some big consequences and that you can't understand their choices, but it's adults, responsible people who can make a choice on their own behalf or whether we're talking about children. I have also said that I think we have a completely different and special responsibility when it comes to children and young people, in terms of ensuring that the legislation protects them in such a way. And for me, it is not a question of whether rational decisions can be made. It is a question of our having a special responsibility when we talk about children and young people, and that is what the government promises, and that is also what is being emphasised in an ambitious objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, in other words, that we should prevent children and young people from smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201732	Thank you. Then I don't have any more on the list. We thank the Minister for Health and then we give the floor to Mrs Stine Brix on behalf of the authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315201747	Thank you. I will, of course, endeavour to speak on behalf of the questioners, but I would just like to make the reservation that I have not coordinated or cleared with the others who are questioners. After all, we come from five different parties, so for the sake of good order I would like to say that I am speaking on behalf of myself. But I certainly know that we agree on one thing, and that is that the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030 is ambitious, right and important. On the other hand, we note today that when we look at the two proposals for adoption that lie in this debate, there is a significant difference. In the proposal from the four blue parties, there is no substance in my view. There are no concrete proposals, no initiatives on what needs to be done in the future to achieve that objective. I think that is extremely depressing. We have heard in the debate from several of the rapporteurs that there are a great many others who should instead achieve that objective: municipalities, schools, retail trade and regions. And many others could be mentioned. I agree that they have an important role to play, but according to the government parties there is no finger pointing to the government itself, and I think that is simply too unambitious. On the other hand, I think there is a hope for the future that some things can happen. We are five different parties behind this question and we have different views on exactly what is going to happen. However, we have been able to bring together a joint proposal for adoption with a series of very concrete initiatives that could bring us closer to the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030: (1) a national action plan on tobacco prevention; (2) tobacco under the counter; (3) neutral tobacco packages; (4) limiting the influence of the tobacco industry on health policy; (5) the exclusion of a tobacco subsidy if the ban on selling to minors is repeatedly violated; and (6) the introduction of effective control over that legislation in relation to the retail trade. It is always good to be confirmed in one thing we know in advance, namely that if there is to be a real change, it requires a change of government, and we must then work for that too here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315202018	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday 20 March 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180315202035	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 16 March 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
