ParlaMint-DK_20180126100022	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving parents decision-making power to postpone their children's school start). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Martin Henriksen (Danish People's Party) and others. I have been informed that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution to write the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish law. B 22). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100108	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100135	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on the introduction of compulsory Danish-language subjects in English-language courses in Denmark. With the proposal, the proposers want to require the government to ensure that all English-language higher education, with the exception of language subjects, must contain a Danish-language subject with a corresponding teaching and test in Danish. The proposal is justified by the fact that the number of English-language courses and admission to them are considered to be too high, as well as by the fact that English displaces the Danish language in the field of education. I would like to start by stressing that I share the concern of the authors of the proposals, perhaps even even their concern, about the development of the number of foreign students in English-language courses. In particular, I share the desire to maintain Danish as a language of communication and teaching, yes, scientific language, in our higher education institutions. That was among other things. the reason why in spring 2017 we restricted admission to English-language business academies and professional bachelor programmes. This was done in agreement with the professional academies and colleges and on the basis of an analysis of the area. The limitation meant that the admission this summer was more than 25%. lower than the previous year in the English-language courses. Following this slowing down, we are now analysing developments in other English-language higher education, so that we have an overall basis for assessing the development of all the courses. We look, among other things. the extent to which foreign students contribute to the Danish labour market after the studies. In other words, although I share the concerns of the proposers, I do not necessarily see the general introduction of Danish-language subjects in all English-language courses as the best solution for changing developments. There is uncertainty as to what the effect of such intervention will be. This applies both to the development of the number of students in the English language programmes and to the content of the programmes themselves. It is therefore important that we give thought to our thinking. There may be good reasons for having English-language programmes and international students. Highly qualified international students can contribute positively to Danish higher education and to the Danish labour market, yes, to Denmark as such. At the same time, there are also subject areas where we in Denmark need highly qualified foreign labour if we are to keep jobs at home. International students can help alleviate this shortage of highly qualified staff. As with other analyses, the preliminary results from our analyses show that the impact of international students is on average positive for public finances. On the other hand, it is not appropriate, or, for that matter, if we are to go further than the merely rational, nor reasonable, that more of 70 per cent. of the English-speaking students in some Master's degree programmes have left the country within 2 years of the end of the course. When the analyses have been completed, we will therefore present a series of initiatives aimed at reducing the number of students in the English language programmes where there are too few students staying on the Danish labour market after the end of the studies. It follows on from the reduction in places in English-language courses, in professional academies and colleges, which I mentioned earlier and which were carried out last year. I recognise that the proposal from the Danish People's Party will very likely lead to a reduction in the number of students in English-language courses, but it is also my assessment and the government's view that the proposal will have some unintended consequences. The Government's proposal is therefore that the examination of the motion for a resolution be suspended and further steps pending the government's presentation of its proposal on English-language education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100609	Thank you. A brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100614	Thank you. The minister starts by mentioning the challenge of English displaces Danish. I would like to know whether the Minister recognizes that in the long term it will be a problem for the Danish language if all courses after the Bachelor's degree stay in English • that in higher education you speak English and it will slip into the fact that you also speak English in companies and that we can get into what the Danish Language Board calls the death spiral of languages, so that over time it will actually be a real threat to the Danish language if we get English into the primary language in higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100650	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100651	I'll answer in a slightly different way. I would say that it is important for me that the Danish language also has expressions, words and phrases that cover scientific work, which covers academically as the language used in full. And we have to make sure of that. There must be Danish terms, there must be Danish used terms, which must be at least as good or even better than the corresponding English, and they must be applied to the academic studies, and they must be applied scientifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100734	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100736	We are, in fact, very much in agreement on that. But when you look at developments that show that over the last 10 years 60 per cent is true. all new Master's degree programmes were established in English, in 2015 nine out of ten in new Master's degree programmes were established in English, so it means to me that in the long run all Master's degree programmes will take place in English. How, then, will the Minister ensure that at the same time at that level we have concepts in Danish that are actually being used in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100806	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100807	My idea is that when the government's analyses are completed, it is a discussion that we must have on how we can constructively ensure that what we both agree on can take place, but also that we also agree on the political means we can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100825	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100829	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister mentions that there is a move from the government to deal with this problem. Could the Minister tell us when this proposal is expected to be completed and reveal what it is going to contain?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100845	Well, it will come when the analyses are done, and they should very much like to be completed this year. So I'm not talking about a longer stay. What it is all about is to complete the analyses that are, in relation to the English language and then get a solid bottom under the work that I see there is really a common interest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100910	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100911	It is good to hear that there is a common interest. Does this mean that the Minister will invite the Danish People's Party to some meetings when the analyses are ready so that we may be able to make a joint proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100923	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100924	I can quite guarantee that I will discuss it with the Danish People's Party. I do not think I can think of a single measure I have taken, which I have not discussed with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in particular, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. So I can calmly say yes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100942	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126100945	Thank you. The Minister mentions the importance of being able to conduct oneself in Danish in university contexts, in higher education and in research contexts, and that the Danish words and terms can be understood in this way. I would like to start by saying that I wrote a PhD myself in Danish, and it was really difficult because the trade terms are in English. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether the most important thing is that we know the Danish trade terms, or whether we have English at a level, so that we can commit ourselves in research environments, for example. international.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101023	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101025	I find it difficult to answer what is most important. I shall be careful now, Mr President, but I would like to remind you that this is one of the priorities. was Mr. Søren Krarup and now the deceased Jesper Langballe, who used the expression that Danish should not develop into just a common language. It is, of course, impressive and clear, but I fully understand the content of it and I agree with it. For a language such as the Danish language, there must be comprehensive terms, and they must be applicable. But from there, to say that it is not as important that our researchers can do so internationally, I would not like to grade it. I believe that both are extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101115	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101116	I have had to sit in research contexts, for example. in France, where they have pointed out that they simply cannot participate internationally because their level is so low in English. Does it not worry the Minister that we can get to where we simply cannot be included in the contexts if the kind of proposals we have here today come through?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101141	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101142	At any rate, I can answer on behalf of the government that our ambition is not to reduce English knowledge in Denmark. It is certainly not, because English is a world language which is the common language, and we, as a smaller country in the world, as a merchant nation with strong scientific traditions, must also be able to do so. In my view, one does not exclude the other, and that is what this discussion is really about. The government's line is clear on that point: we need to be able to both.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101212	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101224	The purpose of the motion for a resolution we are debating today is to stem the loss of linguistic domain associated with the current number of higher education courses in English. I think it is important to separate things when it comes to understanding what it is that supports the Danish language. And when we are in the Danish language, I would like to emphasise that the Social Democracy naturally supports and wants to safeguard the Danish language, including throughout our education system. But I also believe that it is not good to impose a mandatory Danish language subject on English-language courses. On the contrary, this is likely to have a negative impact on professional competence in the individual field. It goes without saying that the professionalism of teaching, dialogue and the writing of tasks, which can also be heard from previous questions here in connection with the discussion of this motion for a resolution, will be hampered if it is to take place in a language other than that in which it would normally be carried out. I just have to say that the content of education and the professional and academic level must be supported above all. Everything else will be a waste of time, and it will also be a waste of resources. But at the same time it is natural, and I can see that there is one point in it, that we look at the number of foreign students coming to Denmark and look at their Danish knowledge much more widely. I would like to acknowledge that. So here the motion for a resolution raises an important debate in which we participate constructively. We have previously discussed in other forums exactly the increasing number of foreign SU recipients coming to Denmark. Of course, it is crucial that we do not get more foreign SU recipients than we have agreed in the SU conciliation group. Today we can then look at the figures and see that we are getting there, that we must at least discuss thoroughly how we can limit the search and the flow to Denmark at all. I also look forward to the government's analysis being published so that we can have a constructive discussion on the basis of the results of what we do about the problems that may arise. There, of course, the Social Democrats will participate constructively in it if we are invited. The challenges must in any case be solved, and then we can start discussing how to ensure that more foreign SU recipients stay and take a job after the end of their studies, because the Social Democratic Party would like to have this and thus give back to the Danish society and contribute to the Danish community. The issue of language is crucial here. There is no doubt that Danish knowledge is crucial if it is to make sense to stay and work after completing education. The Danish language is essential in order to be able to live in Danish society, in order to understand our values and in order to be able to participate in democracy at all in the way we think they should be able to. Therefore, it is of course also important that foreign students learn the language while they are here, in parallel with reading and acquiring professional knowledge. No one is served with the many foreign students who today just go home after completing education and work in their home countries. This is a problem which we are very aware of and which we would like to take a constructive part in resolving. However, the motion for a resolution with the wording it contains on the table today will have, first and foremost, negative consequences for the professionalism of education, and that worries the social democracy. We do not want that, and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101614	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101617	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can, of course, hear from the rapporteur that we agree that there is a need to contain the loss of domain in Danish, and I can also hear from the rapporteur and I could also read in Altinget the other day that the rapporteur believes it is important for foreign students to learn Danish in order to be able to stay in Denmark. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur is in favour of requiring foreign students to learn Danish. As it is today, it is an offer that very many choose not to accept, and in particular it is probably those who are just going to leave the country again, because what would they do with the Danish? So does the rapporteur agree that we should demand that all foreign students who are studying in Denmark learn Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101700	We are ready to discuss how to get a larger number of foreign students who are in the system today, and who will also in the future come to Denmark, to learn Danish. There is no doubt that it will make them a much better asset while they are at the studio and in the time they must be here. A requirement to be able to receive the SU at all is, among other things, that they work for a certain number of hours while they are here in order to stay here in the future and that they are more quickly integrated into Danish society. This requires that one can be Danish at a certain level. So we are very interested in discussing how this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101739	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101741	That was both an answer and not an answer. I asked whether the Socialist rapporteur was in favour of demanding that foreign students who come here and receive an education should learn Danish while they are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101800	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101801	We would like to be involved in discussing how such a requirement should be formulated, and, moreover, in which institutions it might be appropriate. There is, of course, a difference between one educational institution or another and, moreover, also the level of education and how much benefit it will actually be for the individual to have to acquire Danish. There is a difference between whether you come up here and only have to read a semester or two semesters, or whether you take a full bachelor or a full candidate. So it will be crucial whether we can say from here at all today that we are involved in making demands. But I think I share the concern of the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party when it comes to whether they learn Danish and why they do not accept these voluntary offers to the extent that we want them to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101846	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101849	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the Social Democrats would like to help protect the Danish language, and that sounds good. Could the rapporteur give some indication of what concrete steps are being taken to safeguard the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126101905	We do not have any steps on the way to safeguarding the Danish language. We recognise that Denmark is a small country, which, however, has an open and international outlook towards the world, so although we believe that Danish is the primary language in Denmark • this is no doubt • we also believe, as the Minister said, that English is a world language, and that the skills and knowledge to be able to handle the English language both in writing and in speech are necessary to have at a very high level in order to be able to perform all the functions in which we want people trained in Danish educational institutions to be able to perform. It is therefore clear that, as the Alternative's rapporteur has already pointed out, there are certain subject areas in which it is extremely difficult to speak Danish alone. It would be quite natural to include English terms or perhaps other foreign expressions in the subject which is now being dealt with and trained. However, as regards whether we should have separate initiatives to safeguard the Danish language, it is not something that lies on the drawing board in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102016	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102018	Well, it's a little funny that you get a question about the Danish language, and then you start talking about how important it is to speak English. The rapporteur also says that you do not have anything on the drawing board at the moment. So was it not time to get something on the drawing board when you want to safeguard the Danish language? If the Social Democratic Party needs help, the Danish People's Party would like to help; we have a little experience with it and are also passionate about it, and we are here to help the Social Democratic Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102049	We stand here today to discuss a resolution which, from the point of view of the Social Democrats, presents different risks in terms of bringing professionalism and the academic level down to a lower level than the Social Democrats can support. That is what we are discussing here today. We are not discussing whether to propose how we should safeguard the Danish language. The Danish language is spoken as the primary language, and we insist on that, and we would like to safeguard that, but we certainly also recognise that there is a professionalism in certain areas of education which we need to uphold by means of foreign expressions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102130	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102149	Thank you for the floor, President. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to ensure that all English-language higher education programmes, with the exception of language subjects, must contain a Danish-language subject with a corresponding test in Danish. According to the Danish People's Party, this scheme is intended to address the problem of English displaced Danish in the field of education. As the comments on the proposal also show, the proposal stems from a more general concern about the development of the number of foreign students in Denmark, and I would like to stress that we in the Left share that concern to such an extent. When you see examples of more than 70%. of the English-speaking students in some Master's degree programmes have left Denmark within 2 years of the end of their education, so it is clear that the current system does not work as intended, and we must of course work to resolve that. However, as the Minister also pointed out, we in the Left are not sure that the general introduction of Danish-language subjects in all English-language courses is the best way of curbing this development. For example, we do not have any clarity as to what effect the proposal will have in relation to the development of the number of students in English-language courses. I was at DTU the other day, when we heard from the management that it was very nervous that many of the foreign students who are trained there, many of whom are staying in Denmark afterwards, would be training elsewhere. As we know, a society that is unable, for example, to retain engineers is not a well-functioning society, so we will have a balance in this and want to wait for the analysis work currently being carried out in the Ministry of Education and Research to produce an analysis work that will result in a project with thoroughly prepared solutions for how we most effectively support that English-language education is more targeted at the Danish labour market, so foreign students stay and contribute to the Danish society. In other words, we share the concerns of the proposers, but we want to wait for a proposal from the Ministry. We therefore support the Minister's recommendation that the examination of the proposal be suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102424	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102427	These are not surprising statements. But while we are now waiting for the statement so that we can get some facts from it so that we can move forward, I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree with what the Danish Language Board describes as the death spiral of languages, which is about having a domain loss in higher education, that in fact, as we discussed here earlier with the Minister, you do not have Danish concepts and do not have Danish as the natural language • that we are being challenged when we can now see that over the last 10 years it is 60%. of all new Master's degree programmes offered in English. And by 2015, it was nine out of ten, i.e. 90% So I can see a development where we will soon have all the Master's degree programmes in English. That is to say, we may be in a situation in which everything above bachelor level takes place in English. Isn't this a real challenge for the Danish language in the scientific fields and thus a challenge for the Danish language in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102532	I share that concern. It is important that Danish is maintained as not only a language spoken among the citizens on the street, but also as a language in which one can engage scientifically. And I also share the concern that if a dominant research language such as English is all you have, then it crowds out the development of Danish terms in these areas. So there has to be that balance. But the balance should not be made in the way that we end up making a proposal that harms us, as I mentioned before, by, for example, foreign students at DTU opt out of an education in Denmark when we become a richer society of that they are here. But I fully share the concern that Danish does not have a strong enough scientific foundation if we are not very aware that it is being displaced by another dominant research language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102629	Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102632	But that means that the rapporteur shares the concern that it displaces Danish. If, in my view, this small and cautious proposal that one should have a little Danish and learn a little Danish cannot get through, how will the rapporteur ensure that we counter the fact that English becomes the dominant language, that English simply takes over at the higher scientific levels? How can we ensure that we still have a living Danish language, so that it is not just something we make up and create next door, but that it is actually a living language, also at a high scientific level?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102712-2	I will probably repeat myself a little, because I agree that we must do something about that. But I do not want to run ahead of the analysis work that is going on in the Ministry or with the Minister for that matter, it is certainly not popular. But when we have it, what the Danish People's Party raises as a problem is something that we in the Left want to look at and help lift. And when we have the analysis work in place, we have to sit down together and do a workflow on how to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102747	Thank you. There are no more comments. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126102804	Thank you very much. From Enhedslisten's side, we cannot support this proposal to introduce compulsory Danish exams in English-language subjects. I simply believe that the schools themselves must assess how it makes the best professional sense to organize the teaching, and that is also my impression, I must say that in English-language courses there is a great deal of emphasis in fact on the fact that, for example, there is a great deal of emphasis on teaching. The Danish trade terms are used, which means that you can both enter a Danish language and an English language workplace afterwards, and this is of course very important. I would also like to say that it is my experience that it contributes a great deal to Danish society that we have foreign students, in the same way as I also think it is very important that you as a Danish student have the opportunity to go abroad and study. I myself have taken advantage of this and have been very happy about it. But this proposal, as I read it, is aimed at blocking quite as many foreign students as possible, because you can say that you set up a barrier with some Danish-language exams in the English-language subjects. I do not think that is going to be a problem for a Danish student, nor will it solve the fact that there are English subjects, that something Danish is being added, but it will be a challenge for foreign students who cannot enter, and there I have to say that I kind of share the concern that there is a bias in the fact that so many students from the EU countries must also have SU in Denmark, which I know that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about. I therefore agree that there may be something worth discussing, but there I think we should take the real discussion of whether there is no problem with EU rules and what is Denmark's chance of going against them in this area, rather than doing something like this that I see as a little clumsy distractions, in order to solve the problem that I imagine is what the rapporteur is concerned with. But having said that, I would like to say that I think the protection of the Danish language is very, very important. It is clear that, as a small language area, we also need to do something special for, for example. to support the development of proper literature in Danish. That is one of the things I think is very important and it is clear that we must put some funds into it. We must ensure that there is a good Danish education available. We also have to think throughout the cultural world, so we can say how we ensure that there is a strong culture, both in terms of fiction, films and other things in Danish, which supports that our language remains alive and used. In relation to the question that foreign students should also become skilled at speaking Danish and using the Danish language, I think that some of what we often hear around from universities and professional colleges etc. is also very much about getting into society, and there are certainly some ways to back up getting stronger student environments where Danish and foreign students get to know each other better and also speak Danish in free time. I think that is an important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103152	Thank you. There's a comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103156	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, we fully agree on the challenge with the European Union and that there are some things that could be changed there. But that is not the main thing here today. The main thing for us is indeed the Danish language, and I can also hear that the rapporteur agrees that there are challenges and that we need to do something to ensure the Danish language. What we are discussing today is higher education, where I can at least see there is a development that says, of course, that in the Master's degree programme a greater and greater proportion will be only the English language. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is a challenge for the Danish language that it causes a domain loss and that, following the descriptions of the Danish Language Board, it leads to a death gap for the Danish language, whose high-level higher education only takes place in English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103249	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103250	Well, if you get to a situation where higher education in Denmark is only in English, then it is clear that I also think it is a problem. In my opinion, that is just not where we are yet. I think it is natural enough for some courses to take place in English, and I would actually like to ask the rapporteur something. One thing is that many courses are offered in English, as the rapporteur points out, but how much of the students in Denmark actually take a master's degree in English?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103320	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103322	It is a development that will make it necessary. When nine out of ten new Master's degree programmes in 2015 are only offered in English, it is not an option to take the course in Danish in many directions, and in my view this will inevitably lead to the fact that one cannot speak scientifically in Danish either, because that is not what one uses for everyday life. Does the rapporteur not agree that if nine out of ten graduates are offered only in English in the long term, then this will be a challenge and a problem for the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103356	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103358	Again, if it is a question of the possibility of only taking an education in English, then I also believe that there is a problem. But is it correct that this is only in English? In other words, is it not the case that in a wide range of programmes there is in fact an opportunity to read both the candidate in Danish and English?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103428	Thank you for the floor. With the proposal we are considering, the proposers will require the government to change the rules so that there is always a Danish language subject with a Danish degree in English-language higher education. I would like to say straight away that I am very sceptical about the suggestion that has been made in the field of higher education over the past decade or one and a half years. I am also aware of and I acknowledge the arguments about domain losses put forward by the Danish Language Board. When I am extremely sceptical about angling, it is because it usually does not mean that English is spoken in higher education, but that some sort of pidgin is spoken. I can accept that many lecturers and students have a heavy accent, it can be no different if they have learned to speak English after childhood. I think it is far worse that one often speaks with a limited vocabulary, that one speaks with poor grammar, that one speaks with many Danisms, that one uses wrong terminology, that one uses wrong so-called idioms, that is, fixed terms in the language, or that one speaks entirely without the idiomatic expressions that characterize the fluent mastery of a language. It sounds awful in the native's ear, and it inhibits understanding when you talk to each other. So there is enough to tackle, but as the proposal stands, we cannot support it. It interferes too much with the autonomy of universities for us to find it acceptable at first sight. But I want to say something, and I want to say it as seriously and as sincerely as I can. I and we would like to share in the fact that the issue of pidgin versus English is being examined more closely. I cannot, of course, have any objections to people speaking pidgin in public spaces, but it does not belong in higher education institutions, and certainly not if it is marketed as English, because it is then a false trade name. I hope that we can get something done about the use of pidgin in higher education institutions, and I believe that this will solve some of the problems that have triggered the resolution as well. But just as it is formulated here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103725	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103727	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur is expressing a concern about the annexation, and I also agree entirely with the pidgin descriptions, so that it is of course a challenge that if it is to be done in English, otherwise the level will not be in order. But I also hear that the rapporteur recognises the description of the challenge of the Danish Language Board in terms of language, and that is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not also recognise that we are facing a challenge. And I would also like to know: if the rapporteur does not want to take part in this proposal, how does the rapporteur think that we can move forward along that path and ensure that we do not have a loss of domain which will eventually be a challenge for the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103814	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103816	I think we can get some way out of the way by saying that we don't want training on pidgin. I think it will put an end to many things. However, this is a real dilemma which is serious and which I hope we can move universities to take an interest in. Louis Hjelmslev wrote about the founding of the language theory in Danish in 1943, and it took place internationally. It was acceptable to have this kind of professionalism in the 1940s. It is probably difficult today, we have to acknowledge, while at the same time it is very important that it is written in Danish and that it is kept alive. So we are faced with a major dilemma that I would like to share in addressing. But I also think that institutions should have an influence on how we deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103906	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126103909	I very much agree that we need to do this in a dialogue, because it must of course also be manageable for educational institutions. However, when we are in a situation where we can see that in 2015 nine out of ten new Master's degree programmes were only offered in English, we are faced with a problem that escalates and comes very quickly. And I can understand scientifically if you think at an educational establishment: It's kind of easiest that now we speak English, if we do it at a proper level, because it also makes it possible for us to have communication in the world • everything just gets a lot easier. But if you go along with that thinking and do not demand that there should be a living Danish, including in these scientific areas, then I do not think we are going anywhere. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur's party will not be involved in ensuring, regardless of what the educational institutions think, that there are continuing training courses in Danish in all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104001	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104002	Well, the point is that the anglification of a mix of pop and reason, and of course we have to get all this pop out of here. But there are also some places where it is really sensible. So I don't think I can stand here and present the big one like that, but I acknowledge the challenge. And on a personal level, I get the creeps out of all this pop that's also connected to the angling. But the snatch-and-grab solution isn't exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104040	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104042	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear the rapporteur attacking the lack of quality in education when speaking of pidgingelsk. That is really, really nice to hear, because there are many people who think that you get to a higher level when you master English. But you don't control English. It's a low level of quality we get. But what I did not hear the rapporteur say, and which I think is an absolutely just as important argument, is that we have a national obligation to look after our own language. There is no one other than Danes who speak Danish in this world. Why can we accept that universities ignore the national obligation to the Danish language and that, in their interest to attract customers in the shop, they have failed the Danish language? I would like to know whether, in the rapporteur's view, that argument does not matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104134	It's putting words in my mouth if you construct things in such a way that I find these problems indifferent. I think it is very important that the Danish text is written, and I also think that the Danish text is inadequate. I've been a censor at the universities for many years. It is awful, as is written Danish even on the Master's degree programmes. I may just be a little more middle of the road to use an English expression, which is an idiom that is correct but I recognise the problem and I hope we can go together to find some solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104217	I am quite sure that Mrs Marie Krarup will recognize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104221	I'm sorry. I think, of course, that the rapporteur, using English here, has revealed that he already feels that we have lost the battle. I do not think that is an acceptable position. Of course, we need to do something, and this is a concrete, sensible and well thought-out proposal that will change the attractiveness of education, so that people in higher education who are actually interested in learning to master Danish will be better placed to do so. And that is to take the national commitment seriously, which I do not hear the rapporteur taking seriously at all. The rapporteur obviously thinks that we have lost the battle, so don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104300	My first warning against putting words in my mouth apparently did not help, so I must pray once again that I do not put words in my mouth. It is a problem and it is a challenge and there are many dilemmas in the annexation. I would very much like to be involved in working with them. I do not believe in the snatching solution that is being presented here, but I recognise the problem and I would like to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104332	Then there are no more brief comments and we need a new rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104341	Thank you. I cannot help noticing at the outset that the former rapporteur used almost all his speaking time to talk about pidgin, which is probably an expression which very many people sitting in front of television, who do not commit themselves in academic fields etc., know what is, and this must also be called an annexation, which the rapporteur spent so much time talking about that there is too much of. Perhaps we can also make a resolution not to speak too much clan language, in other words to speak too much academic languages in different contexts. Maybe it could be interesting, too, I think. In any case, we cannot support this resolution, and it is fundamental because we believe that we are already interfering too much in this House in the work of the various training programmes. We live in a global world that we have talked about today, and part of the research and textbook literature is in English and has been in English for a long time, and it is natural, and it is valuable. Dansk Industri and Danske Universiteter have criticised the proposal, for they have said that it will be a leghold in the fight for the best international talents and to the detriment of Danish economy and research. We are, then, in agreement with that, and we also believe that the rules that the proposers want will scare people away, and that is the wrong way to go. When programmes are offered internationally and in English, it is because it can help create attractive study environments that attract both foreign and Danish students, and it helps to increase the students' outlook and competences both professionally, culturally, linguistically and educationally. English courses can help the final graduates to have the necessary conditions, including English skills, in order to be able to engage in an international community in an international labour market, in international study environments, in exchanges, etc. So, following on from this, I would like to point out that the world of research is largely internationalised and research in English is a prerequisite for entering international networks, including in order to attract international research funds. However, our main reason and reason for saying no is that we believe that too much interference is involved in the autonomy of higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104635	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104637	Thank you. That sounds very, very international. I think that in the near future it could be that there was a suggestion that we should have English as a group language in Denmark, because then it was much easier. Then we could actually just participate anywhere. In an earlier question, the rapporteur said that she had made a PhD herself, as I understood it, in Danish, where it had been a challenge to find the concepts because the concepts did not exist in Danish. As far as I am concerned, it exhibits the dilemma and the problem that we are actually facing, that so much research, so much in higher education, is going on in English, that Danish is having a hard time, so that it is actually difficult to work and have a living Danish in the individual areas. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that if we do not do something, it could actually be a problem for the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104731	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104732	I deliberately chose to write my PhD in Danish, because I also believe that there should be research going on and being disseminated in Danish. So I was quite aware of that, and I think I was one of the only ones who had written a PhD almost for decades, at least in that field, in Danish. I believe that the Danish People's Party is fighting a very big battle, because I do not believe that the Danish People's Party can change the fact that the language of the university world in connection with research and journal articles is English. I don't think the Danish People's Party can change that. This means that you are very limited if you think that Danish is the most important thing to work with. We probably never get to where all higher education is in Danish. This is clear because, fortunately, a few language subjects remain in the universities, although most of them have disappeared. But yes, of course there has to be something in Danish, but the language is English across international research environments, and I don't think that Dansk Folkeparti can change that with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104850	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104852	We hope, of course, that we can push for development. I think that at least in here we should have some influence on how things are going in Denmark. What I hear the rapporteur say is that we can just as well give up and say that in higher education, and when it comes to research, the language is English. The problem is only for the Danish language that when you talk to the Danish Language Board, they say that what is crucial is that you also have a living language at the highest scientific levels, because it is contagious in the way that Danish works throughout Denmark, and so we do not want Danish to end up as an almuean language, as previously mentioned. In fact, we want Danish to be a living language at all levels. I hear that the rapporteur really regrets having written in Danish, because nobody else did. Should there not always be someone who researches and publishes and can talk about their research in Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104950	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126104952	I love to make leg buckles for myself, so I don't regret writing it in Danish at all. I just thought that was a huge challenge. I'm just saying it's hard because the research language is English. Of course it creates some limitations if you write your PhD in Danish, because then it will not be able to be used in the same way in an international context unless you translate it into English. I do not think that we will get to where the Danish People's Party is going. I think that the Danish People's Party should discuss that there are several colleges where it all takes place only in English. We certainly have an international Baccalaureate, and if we now all started to speak English in primary and secondary schools, then I think that would be a problem. But the problem, as the rapporteur from LA points out about this half-English, half-Danish, is precisely that we do not go around research channels and speak English with each other. We speak Danish. And that's why you don't get that language built up, so we speak natively - now I also use an English expression - we don't speak native English when we stand and teach. If we walked around the hallways and all spoke English, we would probably be really, really good in teaching, as Mr. Henrik Dahl wants you to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105117	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105118	I cannot help reacting when the rapporteur calls it legholds to write a university assignment in Danish. I think that is a very sad attitude to have to one's mother tongue, and it is very sad that as a politician one does not want to share in giving other Danes the freedom that it is to be able to use its mother tongue and develop it so that it is not threatened in the long term and is displaced from the world of research. So it's just a comment that it was a very sad attitude to hear expressed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105153	I can also say that I find it very sad that people want to contribute with the detailed management here in the Parliament and that they think they are smarter than people who sit and work with education every day in universities and other higher education institutions. So I think we should also have some respect for the fact that there are people working on this and who know more about it than we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105221	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105222	We say that we have an interest in maintaining the Danish language. That is what is crucial for all Danes to continue to use what is their mother tongue and to give the freedom that it is to have a mother tongue that is controlled by one hundred percent. The Danish language cannot cope with a market economy competition with the major world languages, it is clear, and that is why we need to do something extra, and that is what we as responsible politicians are willing to do in order to maintain Danish as a language that can be used at all levels of Danish society, including in higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105303	When you want to go in and intervene in how to fill the content and structure and what to do at the individual educational institutions, it must be because you are smarter about how to do it the best way, and that is where we think that we regulate too much in here and that we interfere too much in here. As I said before, I don't think it's such a big problem. I could understand it if we had started teaching English only in primary and secondary schools, but it is clear that in a world of research it is extremely important, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance also pointed out, that one can teach, for example. English at a high level, and that means speaking English daily, I would almost say, in order to do so. And it is a problem that you do not do it, and that is why you get the kind of education that Mr. Henrik Dahl argued just before and is also taking place in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105410	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105421	Thank you. After all, we are a small country with a small language, as several people have also pointed out. It is a fantastic and really lovely language that comes from a fine linguistic culture and a particularly fine history. There is no doubt that we must take care of our language, that we must cultivate it, that we must support it, and that we must invite visitors to Denmark into our language and all its quirks in red porridge with the cream category, but also in all the fine history it has. Of course, we have to invite people into Hans Christian Andersens, in Benny Andersens, in Suzanne Brøggers, in Tove Ditlevsens, in Michael Strunges, in the language of the high school book and in Shit & Chanel, in everything that exists. We must cultivate that, and here we might, I think, do more to invite, among other things. foreign students into our country and into our cultural heritage and in our language. I think we could do better than that, among other things. with more support for culture, for high schools, for literature and perhaps also for language development, supporting the language of Danish, also at scientific level. I think the most obvious thing would be to ask higher education to sit together and give their views on how best to develop and safeguard the language of them. However, as I read this proposal, it is about forcing higher education to introduce Danish-language subjects into courses organised in English, and I remain in doubt as to whether the aim here is to sort out more students, i.e. that there should be fewer foreign students, or maybe it is just a part of it. In that case, I disagree. I do not see foreign students as a threat either to Denmark or to Danish educational institutions. I see it as a great advantage for Denmark that we can attract foreign students, both for our own study environments and for the exchange of our degree programmes, in exactly the same way as when we want many more Danish students to go abroad to study for a period of time. In fact, I also see it as an advantage that Danish students can make themselves at a high level in English if they take these programmes organized in English, and not least, of course, and it has been a thorough part of the debate • that Danish research can be shared with the whole world, for research must per. definition be cross-border in order to work and to be able to help promote the solutions we would like to have around. Knowledge must be shared. So I think that we should use our energies on some of what I said in the introduction, that is, how we support the development and preservation of Danish languages in general, and then we should use our energies to get even more of the foreign students we have to stay in Denmark to work, to learn Danish, to become part of our society, but I do not see this proposal as a way of achieving that goal. Finally, I would just like to remind you that we all want more Danish students to go to study in other countries, and I have not heard anyone speak against it. Many of us often say that we want it, and the government has a goal for it. At the same time, we want all the Danish students to return home, and in this way one has to say that morality is good and double standards are just not twice as good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105844	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126105848	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur said that if the intention of this proposal is to limit the number of people coming, then the rapporteur is against it. I am told that if the intention is also to secure the domain of the Danish language, the rapporteur is in favour, and that was a wonderful thing to hear. I have previously heard the rapporteur quote as saying that the rapporteur would like to see English introduced as a group language on university campus, in other words that everything could be done in English there, because then it was much easier. And I'm sure it was. However, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree with the Danish Language Board's assessment that it is essential to have a living language that you also have a living language at the highest academic levels. And a living language means, for me at least, that one speaks the language, that one writes in the language, and that it is used in the academic circles, in Denmark of course and of course next to that one can so much English that one can communicate out in the world. We do not disagree on that at all. However, does the rapporteur agree that if we are to maintain the Danish language, we need to secure a base and ensure that it takes place in Danish, including at universities, also on campus?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110009	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110010	Thank you. So, the rapporteur knows very well that because I say that I am against this proposal on those grounds, we should not conclude the other way round. It's actually a little cheating. So no. I was actually trying to get around the arguments because I'm saying that if it's a partial goal just to get fewer foreign students, I'm against it. But I also think it is an advantage that the programmes can organise programmes in English, and also for Danish students it is an advantage. I agree with the rapporteur that the arguments put forward by the Danish Language Board must be taken seriously and I agree that this is a balance. And that is why I say: why do we not support the development of the Danish language and perhaps set up a committee for the Danish language and find out what we should support? There has been a reduction in the school grant, which has been cut back on culture. Is that not one of the things that also greatly supports the Danish language and language development? I think this is much more important than the organisation of higher education. But I think that higher education plays a role and must play a role here, and I would like to hear their bids. I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110136	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110138	Well, I am glad to hear that there are many other areas where we can work together to strengthen the Danish language and strengthen Danish culture, and of course we are always happy to accept that. Today, however, we are talking about higher education, about the scientific level. And I hear that the rapporteur also recognises the problematisation of the Danish Language Board, which is, of course, about the fact that if the language loses in higher education, the language loses in general. That is why I would like to hear: if we are not to implement this proposal in the opinion of the Radical Left, how will the Radical Left ensure that we continue to have Danish as a living language in higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110220	I began with a proposal: let higher education come up with their proposals; put together those people who really know something about it; let them make a suggestion on how we can continue to provide education at the highest level with the highest quality, research that can commit itself all over the world, students who can commit themselves all over the world, while at the same time developing, cultivating and preserving the Danish language in general and also in higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110253	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110301	Thank you. In the SF we share the ambition to strengthen the Danish language, and we also believe that we should take care of it and listen to the concerns not only of the Danish Language Board, but also of the Rectoral College over a few times. When I think we should strengthen the Danish language, it is because I think that the fact that we have our language expands our understanding of the world, and when you understand more concepts, you also understand the world in a better way. I come to think of George Orwell's 1984-- in which there is a long chapter only about new languages. The main point in that book is that you have made a new language that needs to be more and more simple so that you can control how people think. I believe that the more languages you can, and the stronger a language you have in Denmark, the more concepts you understand, and the more understanding of the world you get. So I kind of share the ambition. It could also be that if I had had a stronger language, I would have understood the whole of Mr. Henrik Dahl's draftsman's speech, but that's the thing about concepts, isn't it? I therefore think it is quite sensible to map out the development of English-language courses at the candidate level, which is what the Minister is proposing. We supported closing several of the English-language courses at the vocational academies and at the vocational colleges, because we thought there was an imbalance; it was not so much about the foreign students; I thought that was one argument in itself, which was important. But I think this debate is most interesting because it is about the Danish language and how we strengthen it. If the survey carried out by the Minister shows that there is an imbalance in the way we organise it today, I would like to take part in looking at whether we should make some initiatives at candidate level. But I also think it should be borne in mind that we have already done a lot together, perhaps not so much at candidate level, but generally in our education sector. We have strengthened the Danish language in primary school by providing several Danish lessons. We have said that in order to enter a youth education course one should therefore have preferred to have passed the Danish subject. Danish is dominant in all youth education programmes, so I find it very difficult to imagine that in higher education there should be a very large number of students who have not either passed Danish in upper secondary education or even in higher education with a high character, so they have got a very good character in Danish. So I actually think we have done a lot lately. That doesn't mean that we can't do more in this debate about "Have we just given up?" I don't think we do. I actually see that we think it is important across the board. In relation to this specific proposal, I am a little afraid that we are doing ourselves a disservice. There will be students who do not come to Denmark, to put it plainly, if you do what is proposed in this proposal; students that we urgently need. I've been told that over 60%. by the foreign engineering students who are in Denmark, stay here after completing their degree programme. I am a little concerned that some of those that we will need seriously in the future, engineers, highly educated people that we do not have ourselves, will not be able to get if you make a proposal like this. That is why I cannot support the proposal as it stands here either. Nor am I sure that the concrete form is exactly what is needed. I thought, like Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, that perhaps a very low-practical solution is what is needed, namely that we sit together across the parties and either make a report or write a clear political signal that we believe that universities should work on this, so say: It is important for the Danish Parliament that we continue to strengthen the Danish language, also at candidate level. For I agree that when nine out of ten in 2015 will be English-speaking, I can also be worried, but perhaps you can meet that challenge by just sending out a strong political signal. I think we should continue to work on that. One should then bear in mind what is also stated in the comments, namely that there is still overall what I think is a balance, and it may well be that Dansk Folkeparti does not quite mean it, but thus a balance between Danish-language and English-language programmes. What I can hear from the debate that the Danish People's Party is concerned about is that with the new figures for recent years that balance will then change. And this is a debate I would like to take. However, the specific proposal will not be supported by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110737	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110740	Thank you for your gratitude for doing something, and thank you for sharing the concern about the developments that we are seeing and where we are thinking that we need to take action here and now. I also hear that the rapporteur agrees that there is a loss of domain. It is very good that we are doing something good in primary and secondary education, but I hope that the rapporteur also agrees that it is essential that there is still a living language in higher education. And as far as I am aware, the rapporteur also agrees that the fact that nine out of ten new Master's degree programmes are in English is too much. It tells me that we have to go in and make some demands. The rapporteur then says that the problem may be that you may be concerned that the engineering students who otherwise come up here and stay here will not come. But is it not reasonable to expect that if you come here and want to stay in Denmark, you can do something Danish? We can then discuss whether it should be a subject or whether what was discussed earlier with the Social Democrat rapporteur could be a requirement. Could the rapporteur agree that we required all foreign students to take part in Danish education alongside their studies? Could the rapporteur accept that we made it a requirement to participate there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110857	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110858	As it says here, I will say no. Firstly, I am afraid that it will mean that there are some students who opt out of Denmark when they have to choose education again some students that we need. Secondly, I am also afraid of both what it will cost and what it will have with consequences, i.e. whether it will make life difficult for some of the students. But I really think this is so interesting that I would like to discuss it further. I also think that I share the goal that when they stay in Denmark, they should be Danish. But I cannot say yes to such concrete proposals as it says here. But I'd like to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110938	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126110941	It's kind of a half-answer: "It's important that you know Danish, but it's not something you have to do." That is where we think we could be a little tougher and say that if you want to be in Denmark, we will also have an expectation that you can be Danish. So I am thinking: what other measures could the rapporteur propose to ensure that Danish still acts as the living language of higher education in relation to the developments we have today and the statements we have heard in the past, namely that it is widely recognised that things are going on in English? But how are we to ensure that they continue to take place in Danish if we do not have to make any demands from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111025	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111026	It is true that it was a little a politician's answer, but it is because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I am actually worried if you just make such demands there that there are students that we will need in the future who may not be coming. Therefore, I cannot just stand and say from the platform: Yes, let's just do it before you have examined the consequences of it. I could then also ask the other way: is the rapporteur not afraid that some students will not come to Denmark? In fact, in terms of strengthening the Danish language in higher education, I said that I think we should send out a clear political signal that we are concerned about the developments that are taking place. In addition, I also said that once the Minister has completed the mapping that the Minister said the Minister would set in motion, I would like to discuss initiatives if that proves necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111106	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111111	I have to admit, sir, I don't quite understand. Jacob Mark's logic. Let us address the example of engineers from abroad who come here, where 60%. stays and 40%. I'm gonna go back. The argument for voting against the proposal is that the rapporteur is afraid that they will not come, but with regard to the 40%. There is no reason why they should come when they go back anyway, because then we will not benefit from them. After all, it is the 60% that remain, and they must be able to live in Denmark, they must learn Danish, and therefore it must be a good thing that they will then also receive some Danish education in connection with their English language education. Isn't that right? Wouldn't that be a good idea for those who stay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111158	I think it is a very good idea for students coming from outside to receive some Danish lessons. They are offered Danish education and I also think they should go to it, but I am not sure that it is appropriate to make demands. In other words, what I have prepared for today is a motion for a resolution on whether we should do Danish-language exams in English-language courses. In order for me to be able to answer something I think is qualified, as to whether we should make demands that they should what is the offer? What does it cost if we expect everyone to go to it all of a sudden? And what will it have with consequences? So instead of asking for something that I think is a little outside the proposal, please accept that I would like to look into it further, because I believe that one should actually try to learn Danish when one comes to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111247	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111249	In fact, I tried to ask, following on from the motion for a resolution, whether it should be up to that examination. It would be a good thing if, as an engineer, you were going to look for a job in Denmark, that you have shown that you can actually pass such an examination, so why not just vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111303	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111305	I think that the Danish People's Party and the SF are sometimes slightly different. If we see a problem, the Danish People's Party's first starting point may be that we then make some demands. In fact, I believe that our first point of departure should be: let us now try to send out a political signal and see if higher education itself cannot help finding solutions to this. Having said that, I think we can work further to ensure that more English-speaking students go to Danish, but I do not know how many of them accept that offer, so I cannot say anything qualified about what exactly we should do in that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111338	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111349	Thank you. Conservatives share the desire that Danish should not be marginalised. If we do not have parallel language in universities, we risk that few can use Danish in a professionally demanding context. Therefore, Danish should not be marginalised. But sometimes it makes sense to offer programmes in English and have international students. If you want an international education in international business and marketing, it may not be smart to have an education with subjects and exams in Danish. We must safeguard the Danish language, but it is also important that educational institutions have a global outlook and can benefit from and find joy and insight into foreign languages. Therefore, Danish and English must be able to function in parallel. As the Minister mentioned earlier, the government is analysing the area and is working on a project on the English-language courses with a number of initiatives. We would like to wait and therefore cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111503	Thank you to the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126111522	Thank you, and thank you very much for the debate and for the positive commitment to continue working on it when the government makes its statement. After all, it gives some openings to move on. Thank you, too, for recognising that there are some issues in this. I would say that when I read in Berlingske the other day about the reaction to this, there was a little more touch than I had actually imagined. It almost sounds like with this proposal we're going to scare all foreign students away, and in particular the talented ones. When I see in Berlingske that Dansk Industri and DTU refer to the proposal, I can see that Charlotte Rønhof from Dansk Industri says that the bill will de facto mean that we can no longer attract international students. We need them, we need them to stay in Denmark. But they won't come if they can't follow the class and go to the exam. At the same time, she says that it is a good idea to learn Danish, what we have also talked about sometimes here today. But if they learn Danish, they can also follow a course in Danish and go to the exam. So what's the problem? And Anders Bjarklev from DTU says that we are going to sort out a very large number of talented young people that Danish business would like to hire and that we have simply scared away the talent stock. I do not believe that it will scare away those talents who would like to take an education in Denmark to subsequently use it in Danish companies. In fact, I believe that young people would like to learn Danish in order to communicate with the people of the country in which they intend to live. Nor do I think it would be an insurmountable obstacle to the very talented to learn enough Danish to be able to take a course in Danish. I also wondered why we have universities and other educational institutions in Denmark. Why do we have research institutions? It's about "and I think we actually agree on that in here" that we want a well-educated population. We want research which can be the basis for a thriving economy and the development of a free and well-functioning society. But it is also about our culture, and it is about our language. It's about me and Dansk Folkeparti not wanting Denmark to develop into a group with English as a group language. It is probably the easiest thing to say that now we simply abolish Danish and recognise that there are many more people in the world who speak English, so let us surrender. Let us save the resources that it costs to hold on to Danish so that it can also flourish. The Danish Language Board has been mentioned sometimes today. They have a picture of the linguistic development that they call the death spiral of languages, the loss of domain. And it starts with the loss of domain in higher education. What we see today is that the majority of all new Master's degree programmes are established in English. That's about. 60% over the last 10 years, and in 2015 nine out of ten were in English. We have had a minister in this area, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who is the rapporteur here today, who said that she could see English as a group language on university campus. Of course, this development and speech leads to a loss of status for the Danish language among the young students. Danish will only be something you have to use when you are at home in the village. I get such pictures on my inner screen of Erasmus Montanus, who comes home and can hardly speak Danish, because that is not what you do where he comes from. But that's what his mother does, and then they can barely talk. Is that what we want? To return to the Danish Language Board's picture of the development, the loss of Danish in higher education to the loss of Danish in business, because more and more companies will start using English as a corporate language. This leads to a loss of status for Danish in the labour force, and finally it also leads to a loss of domain in leisure life, and then we start to speak English at home. Earlier today, a rapporteur said that it is a problem that we do not speak enough English, because then we are not qualified enough to teach and to actually understand the teaching there is. So there it would also be better in that logic to use English all around. Because that is the language we use everywhere, and it ends up just as quietly with English becoming a corporate language in Denmark. And we in the Danish People's Party believe that we need to take this seriously. The spiral starts in higher education, which is why we need to ensure that Danish teaching continues in all scientific fields, that research and its results are still communicated in Danish, that concepts and terms are created in Danish. If we do not secure a domain for the Danish language in all scientific areas and in all higher education, then we start the spiral, and then we simply kill the Danish language just as quietly. As I said, it could be obvious so to take the consequence and say that everything should be done in Danish. However, in the Danish People's Party we recognise that much research must naturally take place in a dialogue with the rest of the world. But at the same time we need to ensure that we counter the risk of domain loss and that Danish disappears as a language in scientific areas. Therefore, this proposal was an attempt by the Danish People's Party to find a balance, a pragmatic minimum and an acceptance that we also want the best young people from abroad to be able to come here. It will not be a revolution and it will not save the situation in itself, but it will be a small start. And we want to send a clear signal to everyone who wants to take an education in this country that we are speaking Danish here. It does not sound as if we have a majority in favour of the proposal here today, but what I am going to take on board and what I am going to take on from today is a commitment that has been made more or less all around, that we sit together, recognising to varying degrees that there is a problem here that we have to deal with, just as we have to find ways of resolving it. I eagerly await the statement that comes from the government so that we can get figures on what the picture really looks like in higher education today. So, how is development, how critical is it, and how fast are we going to start? So with that, I would just like to say thank you very much for the debate. I look forward to the further progress, because after all I can see some openings and see that we have something to work on. And we shall continue to do so by the Danish People's Party. I can promise you that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112131	There are a few questions. First, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112136	Thank you very much. Now I have actually taken the trouble to check some of the figures in the note, to which the rapporteur has also referred several times, and as I read it, developments in recent years have indeed been that there have been more students in English-language courses, but there have also been more students in general. And if you look at what is called Figure 10, you can actually see that the proportion of students in English-language programmes was 11%. in 2006. Then it swings a little over the years by about 10-12 per cent, and then you actually land again in 2015 at 11 per cent. Does the rapporteur consider that it is fundamentally deeply worrying that approx. 11% of the total number of students in Denmark attending an English language education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112234	I believe that what is deeply worrying is the development that we have seen over recent years of young people from Eastern Europe, who come up here as migrant workers and then have the right to enter and take an education. And in recognition of this, the government, together with us, has also taken steps to ensure that an agreement has been reached with business academies, for example, that they have cut down significantly because there was a development that we had to do something about. At the same time, the most important thing for the Danish People's Party in this debate is in and out of the question whether there are one or two more or less foreign students. Today's debate is primarily about the Danish language and about a development, because in the same notes you can see that the number of Master's degree programmes taking place in English is increasing. This is what worries us, i.e. the loss of domain for the Danish language that lies in it and that we think we need to take action against.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112329	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112330	I do not think it is a loss of domain that the possibility of taking new courses in English is being created as long as we still have a situation where the vast majority of students read in Danish and, as we can see here, it is actually the case that it is completely unchanged. I think that the rapporteur mixes pears and apples a little bit in this proposal by just going in and saying that this should also restrict access to education. Would it not make more sense to actually discuss what is the hops, namely the EU rules on SU, instead of mixing it with something that is about the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112411-2	Well, I really, really want to discuss the European Union, and I would like to discuss the possibility of changing the rules which, of course, force us to do some things, so that in those areas we do not necessarily have our autonomy to decide who we think should come in and who we think we want to give an education and pay the SU for. This is a whole discussion, which we would very much like to take at any time. But this is also about the Danish language, and it's also about the domain loss that we can see challenges us and will challenge us, and it's actually something we can do something about. It's something we can decide from here. That is why we think it is a really, very important debate to take, and that is why we have raised it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112449	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112451	Yes, when I have asked for the floor, it is more to make a comment than to make a question. I would like to make the comment that I do not think that the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur should speak up the disagreement between the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, because I do not hear that there is a huge disagreement. I hear that far along the way, not all parties, but far along the way, we recognise the problems described, but that we do not entirely agree on the methods of resolving them, and I think that is actually a very good starting point, for example. writing a constructive report, as has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112535	Thank you for your comment. I would like to sign for it, and I really think that I also tried at least in my introduction to say that I was glad that there was the willingness almost all around to tackle this and get a dialogue on what we are doing about it and how we can deal with the challenges that have been expressed on several sides. I can't wait for us to move on to that, because that's kind of the key thing. It is not whether we are going to adopt a very specific resolution, but that something is actually going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112607	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Henrik Dahl the word again? No? Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112626	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126112648	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for the opportunity once again to discuss something which is of concern to all of us here, as far as I can at least hear, namely the Danish language. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to review the rules governing the naming of educational establishments. Against this background, the government must come up with proposals on how to ensure that educational institutions are given Danish main names. The motion for a resolution concerns educational establishments in the departments of both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and Research. The proposal is justified by the fact that all educational institutions in Denmark should have a Danish main name and that several educational institutions today have misleading and unclear English-sounding names. In addition, DF wants the institutions to take responsibility for safeguarding the language here in Denmark, namely Danish. Let me start with the last one. The Government agrees with the proposers that it is important to safeguard the Danish language. The Government also agrees that educational institutions should use a name which is both recognizable and true. In both the Ministry of Education and my own area, the names of the educational institutions have been decided by the boards. It is the boards of directors who are familiar with their pupils, training courses and customers, and it is therefore also from the point of view of those who are best able to assess whether the name of the institution is easily recognizable for trainees and buyers. In addition, it follows from the institutional legislation in the field of the Ministry of Education that the name of the institution is approved by the Minister of Education. At the time of approval, the Minister of Education shall assess whether the proposed name is misleading or whether there may be a risk of confusion with other educational institutions or private firms. In my own area, the names of the institutions are laid down in the Staff Regulations of the institution, which are also approved by the Minister. Finally, it is worth emphasising that the vast majority of educational institutions already use a Danish name. This applies to institutions under both ministries. So there are only a few institutions that use a name that can be seen as foreign. It is important to me that all educational institutions use a recognisable name and that we therefore appeal to the institutions to use a comprehensive Danish name when they act within their borders. That is how far we share the views of the proposers. At the same time, however, it is the view of the government that we must be reluctant from the political point of view to regulate the legislation, because there must be a clear need for it. As far as we are concerned, it must be the boards of directors who, with their local knowledge of their students, degree programmes and customers, immediately best assess whether an institution's name is comprehensive and recognizable. And although I myself may sometimes be surprised, it is a fundamental position I have and therefore the government does not want to support the draft parliamentary resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113016	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113018	That's a little disappointing. As in the previous debate on the resolution on English-language education, there is a great deal of goodwill when it comes to the Danish language, but when it comes to concrete action, not so much happens. The Minister said earlier in a reply to the Danish People's Party that he would look into whether it would be appropriate for the University Colleges to be called as they are called, and in his reply he also said that the Danish language should be protected and that educational institutions should use Danish names as a starting point. So there is only an increasing tendency for more and more people to use strange English names. Would it not therefore be appropriate for the Minister to look at what the proposal is asking for, and then ensure that we get these mouthful Danish main names, since it is now the responsibility of the ministries to ensure that there are some proper names? Then they can have an English page name for communication with abroad. Wouldn't it be perfectly obvious to do that? I simply do not understand why the government is not responding to us in this area. It's actually a small thing, and you could do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113143	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113144	The requirement often sounds like: just do, come on, now here, just do. I think that the whole question of the Danish language is too important for it to be merely a matter of doing. I think that we should see it in a whole, and we should consider how we do that, and I will do that when the study we talked about last time is available. There I would like to have discussions on how best to deal with this. The history of e.g. University College is, of course, the fact that there have been several different ministers. One has come up with the concept of University College, another has, for example. I do not really know what is meant by the concept of professional colleges, and I do not really know what is meant by a third term. However, in any case, I believe that this is something we should see in a whole. I have not concealed the fact that I believe that the educational institutions should use a Danish name when they act within their borders, and I often express that position, both here in the Parliament's speaking chair, but also to the institutions. I also have the principle approach that I think we should be reluctant to regulate the affairs of institutions when there is a responsible board that has a better knowledge of local conditions than I would have had to have as Minister anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113314	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113315	But the Minister and the Danish Parliament also have the responsibility to the public that the institutions live up to what can be expected of a Danish institution. Let me therefore ask in another way: now that an analysis has been set in motion and the government is working on a proposal, would it not be obvious that we also include the small thing, namely that the institutions funded by taxpayers have a Danish main name, which is mouthed, and then an English name that they can use for communication with abroad? Wouldn't it be obvious to include it in the analysis and possibly in the playout and in collaboration with the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113357	As I said, I look forward to the discussions that will also be held with the Danish People's Party, and there will be a free speech, and then we will have to negotiate what we can agree on. I would like to see a more fundamental framework for the discussions on these issues, and then I think we should actually take that. In other words, I am not ruling out anything in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113420	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113432	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we share the Minister's view that this is a matter for the boards of educational institutions, and it is also, as the Minister also said, what a framework there is for deciding on the naming of their educational institutions, including that there is ultimately approval in the relevant ministries. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. But having said that, we can understand the amazement of the choice of names that are sometimes in the educational world. Because it is quite appropriate to raise the question of whether it gives recognition to young people who have to apply for vocational training, a high school or higher education, in relation to any names they choose on the boards. But it is probably not the right way to go about saying that it should be a Danish name and that one has then sort of solved the challenge, and I will give an example. There's a vocational school called Hansenberg. It is located in Kolding, and they know it well in Kolding, but one can of course wonder why it is called Hansenberg, and it has a story. There were two teachers who originally wanted to start what actually became the forerunner of a technical school. They wanted to do an evening school for apprentices in the craft sector, one was called P. Hansen, and the other was Chresten Berg, and therefore the institution came to be called Hansenberg. But when you hear a name like Hansenberg, there are not many who think that it is a vocational school. In Nordsjælland the vocational school is called the vocational school Nordsjælland. It's like understanding, and it's just to say that it doesn't solve the challenge that the Danish People's Party is raising here, so it's that it has to be a Danish name that necessarily gives more recognizability, and that's why we don't support it. But we would like to enter into that dialogue on how to ensure more visibility and recognition in relation to educational institutions, and then we would also say that recognition can actually also be with an English name. Now I followed the debate just before in relation to university colleges. It is, in fact, a concept that is used by a number of other countries when it comes to having a common name that you understand across countries. University colleges have professional Bachelor's degree programmes, which we have for teachers, educators and nurses etc., and it is also a value that an educational institution has a broad term which is recognizable. Because we think that this is important when, for example, we consider it important. at higher education, young people want to study at each other's educational establishments, and this applies to both Danish students who are also very much allowed to study at foreign university colleges, just as foreign students can do so at Danish educational institutions. So with these words I hope that I have given some examples that it is not as simple as the Danish People's Party wishes to do so, i.e. that it is only about Danish names. It is a matter of recognizability in relation to the type of institution it is. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we can understand the intention somewhat along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113724	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113726	Thank you. Now Hansenberg Business School is a Danish name. It's just off the road. Absalon University College is also a Danish name. Absalon could then call himself Absalon University College when they turn abroad, because that doesn't prevent this proposal. Let me just read out what it says: Parliament instructs the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions. Social democracy will not be involved in reviewing the rules. The next is to come up with proposals on how to ensure that the educational institutions are given Danish main names, but that will not be the case either, although Mrs Christine Antorini's colleague in the Social Democratic Party Mattias Tesfaye has said far and wide in the media that it is a problem that educational institutions increasingly take English main names. So why not just help review the rules and ensure that we get Danish main names?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113834	I simply do not think that it is legislators, including a minister, who should spend time going in and deciding what names should be. What will happen as a result of the motion for a resolution is that responsibility is transferred away from the board of directors to the Ministry and the Minister. And we do not agree that this is the way it should be handled. That is also why the statement we are giving from here is that we will not support this resolution, but the intention, in terms of how to discuss a framework, how to call for a discussion on what it should be, we agree with it. But that is not something a minister should be spending time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113911	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113912	Indeed, it is something that the ministries spend time on, and Mrs Christine Antorini should actually know that, because names must be approved in the ministries today. Should I understand the Social Democrats in such a way that they do not think that names should be approved in future, but that this alone is a matter for boards of directors? It's gonna be a new break.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126113935	No, it is not, and I am also aware that the rapporteur heard that I said in my rapporteur's speech that it is the case that in the end it must also be approved in the ministries. And that means that the names we have today are approved, and it is on the basis that the boards have discussed it that they are approved. What must lie as a consequence of the Danish People's Party's proposal will then be that if so, the Minister should take the initiative to ensure that all educational establishments where the name did not appear fit, however it should be defined, were taken up and discussed with the boards of directors. But we don't think that's the right way to do it. We would very much like to take up the discussion on recognizability of educational establishments, but it should not be the Minister who is responsible for deciding which names fit in with what may be Danish, what suits foreign names. There is the possibility of ultimately approving, and we do not want to change that procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114028	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mr. Mads Fuglede as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114046	Thank you for the floor. I shall not repeat the Minister's speech and, instead, simply endorse the Minister's report. The Left also believes that it is important to safeguard the Danish language. We all have a common task in ensuring that English does not crowd out the Danish language in our educational institutions. On the other hand, we do not think that the English names that we see today in the educational institutions are such a problem that we should ensure from a political point of view that we legislate on this too. The rules that exist are good enough. Perhaps sometimes we need to work in here a little more to ensure that we follow the rules that we already have, rather than making new rules. I am confident that the boards of the educational institutions, with their knowledge of the students, the students and the students, are in a position to assess which name makes the best sense to their institution out there, and I also believe that if they come up with a name that some of us do not think is a good name, are not a mouthed name or are directly misleading, so without further legislation, we can raise a debate on it and influence it along that way. On this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114218	There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114219	The rapporteur's party is, of course, part of the government, and the rapporteur should not therefore speak against his government, but I would nevertheless venture to ask whether the rapporteur could be involved in reviewing the rules for naming educational institutions together with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114235	We always want to be in dialogue with the Danish People's Party about the rules in every possible given area and also in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114244	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114246	That was a 'yes' to the first part of the resolution. Then I would like to ask the second part, i.e. whether the rapporteur will also be involved in making proposals on how to ensure that educational institutions are given Danish main names.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114301	We do not think that it should be politically regulated what names you have. We believe it is fine on the boards, as it is now, and when they come up with a proposal, it must be approved by the Ministry as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114331	On the part of the Enhedslisten, we simply cannot support this proposal. I think it is best left to the educational institutions themselves to decide what to call them. I think the procedure already in place, including for approval by the Ministry, is sufficient, so I do not think there is any reason to support this. In my opinion, calling a professional college university college is not necessarily the most appropriate thing, but that is precisely why there are also some of the professional colleges that call themselves professional colleges, and then there are others who use the term university college because they think it works better. And I think they are simply better able to assess what works for them and for their pupils than we are here from the Folketing. So basically, I do not think we should interfere in this or in detail so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114446	Thank you for the floor. Jean de France is the French name for Hans Frandsen in a comedy of Holberg from 1722. For at least 296 years it has been the case that there was general agreement that it is ridiculous to snob for everything that is not Danish and found on impressive foreign names like Jean de France. That is why, of course, I have a very great deal of sympathy for the proposal that educational institutions should be given Danish main names. I can also illustrate this by telling you how the Minerva model got its name. The Minerva model is a Danish segmenting tool, invented by a working group at the ACNielsen Market Analysis Institute under the direction of me. ACNielsen is and was an American company, and at the time of the 1990s, when the model was invented, we had branches in almost 100 countries. That's why I was under a very strong pressure to give the model an English name, but then I thought, and I still do, that many English product names are pop-smart and sound stupid, and then I thought that the only viable alternative was Latin. Therefore, the model was named after the goddess of wisdom, after I first checked with a classical philologist to find out if there was any dirt on Minerva. It is often the case that there are Roman gods, and especially Greek gods, but Minerva is pure, we could use her. I think, however, that the proposal is too restrictive in the form it is presented and that it interferes too deeply with the autonomy we value so highly in the Liberal Alliance. I believe much more in mockery, ridicule and ridicule. It is not without reason that, after almost 300 years, we still remember Jean de France, and it is a method that can be used in many other contexts. I once asked an Italian if the term Vero Moda could ever become correct Italian under any circumstances. The answer was no, and of course you have to hold on and have fun. I think we should have told the world what DONG can also be slang for in English. I think you should laugh loudly and scornfully when Aarhus, my dear birthplace, no longer wants to be the town of smiles, but absolutely has to declare himself "Danish for Progress." In these cases, we will be the longest off the path of mockery. I would like to make myself available to the authors of the motion with mockery, ridicule and ridicule, if they so wish, but we cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114742	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114744	As with Mr. Henrik Dahl's spokesperson is very sympathetic to the Danish People's Party, but when it comes down to it, one cannot vote in favour. But would Mr. Henrik Dahl may be involved in reviewing the rules for naming educational institutions, so that we could possibly help Danish educational institutions to become better at naming than they are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114822	Overall, I believe that changing governments and several generations of parliamentary politicians have interfered too much in how universities and higher education institutions work. It's the learned republic. I now regard the late Jesper Langballe as a fantastic educational politician because he held onto these things, and therefore I think that very square rules are not the way to go but to mock ridiculous names I would like to join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114855	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114856	Do I understand the way Enhedslisten's rapporteur and others have been banners of the fact that this approval in the Ministry is really just a rubber stamp? Well, what they're making up out there in the country among a few people, namely board members, is not really necessary to approve we can just remove that approval today. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114922	It must be understood that I think that the autonomy of universities is important, but there is no research minister who would have any trouble with me if she or he took an activist line and asked the boards if these ridiculous names were strictly necessary when the name proposals were submitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126114949	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that we do not support the proposal. We disagree that an educational institution should For who does not understand that NEXT is a Danish educational institution, who does not understand that Copenhagen Business School is a Danish higher education institution? Are the kids and the kids going there? Are these the members of the Danish People's Party? Who is it, and what's the problem? Basically, I believe that, as I also mentioned in the previous resolution, we are already interfering too much in the daily lives of the various educations in this Chamber. I think this proposal is an example of a detailed management that is totally unacceptable. We want to set the institutions freer and give them more self-determination... not to drag more rigid rules over their heads and restrict the freedom of individual institutions to make their own decisions. In relation to the Danish students and students, it is also a way to mark, for example. an international name that you can take part in an international society and educational network. I've been on an exchange in London myself at a university. My son, who is studying at CBS, has been on an exchange at a business school in the United States. I deliberately say a business school because I've always thought that business school is quite misleading. Is it a high school you go to when you go to a business school? No, of course not. So Danish names can also be misleading. In the alternative, we would like to set the institutions free, as I have just said, and I think we should stop interfering in detail without delay. I also think that if it becomes a reality that all the names that we do not find tasteful in this Chamber will have to be changed, it will cost millions of dollars in IT work. Logos must be changed on all buildings to change letter papers. The institutions are already under pressure from the 2-percent austerity requirement, so I think it is bound to be a bit of an insult to those educational institutions that are struggling every day to give our young people a good future. So no matter that it would be really nice if somebody chose Danish names... I would think that was nice too... so we won't vote in favour. And I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals and say that they will not vote in favour of the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115240	Then there is a question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115241	Well, business school is not at all misleading, it is a relic of northernism. In Sweden, higher education is still called högskola, so it is bad, not misleading at all. It's just good Nordic. We have commercial colleges, just as we have folk high schools, which mean something else. So that's actually a really good word. And I think that Mrs Pernille Schnoor should use it more often. That is the right thing to say, and everyone can understand the voters of the Alternative as well. But my question should really just be whether Mrs Pernille Schnoor recognises that it is the Folketing, the Minister and the Ministry who are ultimately responsible for the individual educational institutions, in that it is the taxpayers who pay and there is not just carte blanche to do anything. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115339	Now, first of all, I think I should say that all words must be seen in the context in which we are. And I believe that calling CBS a high school will now be taken out of a historical context that most people would not understand. So I do not think it would make it more understandable to call it a commercial school. So that is my own personal opinion, which I have the right to have. Yes, I recognise that right now it must be approved, and I think that is fine. What this proposal could ultimately mean was that NEXT should not be called NEXT and that CBS should not be called CBS. And that would mean millions of kroner to replace the names, and I simply think that is quite unreasonable. So, yes, I acknowledge that right now you have to send it in and have it approved. And it seems like it's been working fine so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115439	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115442	CBS is still called Away Business School It's just like a little orientation. The approval that exists today is not a rubber stamp, you can't ask for anything. But good, let's take that economy thing as an argument. If we now recognise that there are some schools called what they are called, could we imagine and would the Alternative be involved in ensuring in the future that new courses should have a Danish name?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115520	I would think it was super nice if there were a lot of courses that chose a Danish name. And the trend is, in fact, as the Danish People's Party itself has also mentioned with Absalon that you are going in that direction. After all, it is also in the catering sector and in all sorts of other areas. But let the people who are set to be responsible for it assess it in the institutions. That is not something we should legislate on in this Chamber. If we had another government, they'd want everything to be English. Then we'd have to legislate about it. I think that is untimely interference.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115601	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126115612	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wants the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions and to make suggestions on how to ensure that the institutions are given Danish main names. The names of the country's institutions are today decided by the boards of the institutions. There may be different reasons why you choose the names you make. The Danish People's Party lists some of the reasons in the comments itself. It may be an attempt to create a common identity, it may be about the supply of education and geographical affiliation, but in principle it could also be an attempt to make the education more exciting and attractive in the public domain or an attempt to send a signal that the education is an education which, like attracting students from other places than Denmark. There may be many reasons why I have thought that you have the names you have. When the courses have chosen the names, it is up to the ministries, respectively the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and Research, to approve them. And it is not just a blue stamp, as has been said in the debate. At least that is not what the comments and the law say. The law states that names must be examined; they must be examined whether they are seriously misleading or whether they can be confused with other training courses or private firms. So it shouldn't be a blue stamp... so you don't obey the law. And as I understand the proposal, it is not enough for the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party would like a review of the rules. And I am not completely opposed to that. I would like to come back to the debate, but I would like to say why I am a little sceptical about the proposal as it stands. Firstly, I am afraid that if you suddenly change the names of a lot of programmes, it will create a lot of confusion for the students and students who have attended the courses, so the identity that has been spent some time building up will disappear. It will probably also cost a great deal to change the identity of education, as Mrs Schnoor says. Secondly, I am a little concerned that we are again doing ourselves a disservice. Perhaps these educational institutions have chosen some crazy names, including in my optics, to make it more attractive to young people, in other words to lure in some young people, because they have an analysis that this is what it takes to lure in young people today. Well, maybe it isn't, at least it wasn't in my municipality at some point, the sexiest thing to say here? And perhaps we have changed to a name other than production school somewhere in the country because we wanted to change the identity and the reputation of the training. There are several of us in here who would like more people to attend a vocational school, and perhaps a vocational school has been given a different name because it was thought that it could attract more young people. However, what I am most sceptical about is in fact the wording contained in the proposal, namely that the proposal intends to determine the name to be used at certain times. So you have to give the education a Danish main name, and then you have to use it in Danish contexts. I don't understand. What does that mean in practice? If you said yes, it should have a Danish main name, when can you use the English name? I would like to discuss this with the Danish People's Party. That is why I am somewhat sceptical about this proposal. But I would like to say, as I just said, that I actually think it is a rather strange trend in time that education is given all sorts of English names. In fact, I also think that Henrik Dahl is right that sometimes it seems like you give them some names just to make it kind of pop-smart. I can also have some doubts as to whether we are really helping ourselves in the long term if young people do not know what it is they can read on professional training courses or that there are professional training courses at all, because we insist on calling them something else, and that also applies to vocational schools. Actually, I can be a little worried about that. However, the law states that it is necessary to ensure that the names of the courses are not misleading. So when I read this proposal, I couldn't help but think that maybe it's just about talking about: Do you use the law as it is? Are those who demand that the names of education should not be misleading? Is Bornpro e.g. A misnomer's name? Is Learnmark Horsens a misleading name? Before changing the law, it might be exciting to have a talk about whether we are at all observing the law as it is. The review that I would like to take part in must be seen in relation to the fact that there are different rules for the different courses. There are different rules for youth education, for higher education, for long-term higher education. Perhaps it could be very interesting to have a talk about: should we have a common set of rules on how to name them? That's how far I'm gonna stretch. However, I think there are some ambiguities which I am rather sceptical about. That will be my comments on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120109	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120110	It is always nice when rapporteurs are stretching, and I think that the rapporteur from the SF has stretched longer than I expected, and also longer than other rapporteurs, and has shown openness, and I think that is wonderful. It's good for the future. The rapporteur then asks a question. Normally it's the other way around, but let's finally have the discussion. To whom and when should the educational institution communicate with the Danish name? But in all cases where Danes are included, the Danish name is used. That means to the public, to the media. That's when they write to the students and the parents. It can be for Danish companies. Should it then be the case that some foreign companies are addressing themselves, then you just use the English name, or if you are going to talk to your partners outside the country, you use the English name. This is, of course, a very practical approach. So thank you for the openness of Mr. Jacob Mark. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120214	You're welcome. I think that one goes a little too far if one wants to decide exactly when to use which names and how to comply with that rule in practice? Who would keep an eye on them doing it at the right times, and what would the penalty be if they didn't? What I am most concerned about is that we are not sending out a signal that our educational institutions are private groups and that we are not giving them such fancy English names to make them attractive. What I'm concerned about is that the names aren't misleading. That is what the law already says. I also think it's good if they have a Danish name, so you know what it is you can and must at this educational institution. But I believe that it will be difficult to go in and I do not think that we should do so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120303	It is not up to us to decide either, but when you have a Danish main name, you also use it in Danish contexts. That would be quite natural. And when you communicate abroad, you will use the English main name. This is not something we as legislators should decide, but what we are at least responsible for is that they have a Danish name so that they can communicate mouthfully and clearly to Danish taxpayers. Some places they don't have it today, and that's too bad. Then I hope it's settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120334	I'm actually not quite sure that's how it works. I actually think you can have educational institutions that have both Danish and English names. But then you find out that the English name is really the most popular, and that's what you become known for, and then you choose to use it, and isn't it okay? How, then, do you observe whether they do it or not? I think it's a little unclear. But I would very much like to discuss that review further and also further discuss how it is ensured that you do not have outright misleading names around, and I think that is actually a real discussion, because I think there is a tendency to do so in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120406	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120416	Thank you. As I mentioned in my previous rapporteur's speech on the last resolution, we on the Conservative side agree that we must safeguard the Danish language, and we also agree that education should have a name that is fair and recognizable. However, we believe that the boards have better knowledge of their students, degree programmes and customers than we have here at Christiansborg. It is not for us here in Christiansborg to decide what the institutions should be called. The vast majority of educational institutions use correct names, and therefore we should be careful to put more regulation in the world in here from Christiansborg than necessary. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120505	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last one on the list is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120525	It is always interesting to discuss with the united parliamentary parties when it comes to the Danish language. After all, the majority are very liberal at the end of the day. We leave it to boards, we leave it to people to choose whether it should be English or Danish or what it should be. What you often hear is that you want to protect the Danish language. There are many toast speeches in the Chamber, and I know it from my own experience, because in the Danish People's Party we repeatedly speak the Danish language and how important it is to safeguard it. But when it comes to concrete action, I think that the parties of the Folketing are failing. There is openness from some, and others totally reject it. Here, however, it has been uplifting. The alternative said that it is a fashion or a trend to deal with the Danish language and protect it out in society, and that is to this extent right, but there is a reason why it is perhaps becoming a fashion, because there are some here in the Folketing who have kept talking about how important it is. It may be that Mr. Henrik Dahl is right that it is enough to use mockery, ridicule and ridicule when discussing it, but I would like to see it followed up, in addition to discussing it, with government initiatives, with shepherd's letters, possibly with amended rules. It will be of great help to us and to others who love the Danish language. So, of course, I look forward to the government's analysis work and action, and we would very much like to be involved, even on this small corner, which has great signal value. I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, who has shown amazing openness. I think it was a pleasure that other parties could learn from that. It is important that we cherish our Danish language, large and small. There's no one else to take care of it. In the Kingdom Community we have both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and the two small nations really cherish their language in a completely different way than we do in Denmark. We could learn something from them. I hope that, in the long term, we will be able to initiate initiatives in all areas of the Danish language so that we do not get into the spiral of death that the Language Board has spoken about and that we debated during the previous debate. Should I conclude that this is a little positive, it is of course that the government, led by the Minister, will initiate initiatives, and I hope, of course, that something concrete will come out of it and that it will not just end up with the analysis work. Thank you for the debate and continued good parliamentary work in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120840	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120842	It is far too rare for us to discuss linguistics in the Folketing, and that is why it is nice when the opportunity presents itself. We are simply linguistically divided and not politically divided. I have that view in contrast to, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In addition, many Icelanders complain about the fact that the language is a vote. It is a daily vote. Why do we no longer have a dative form in Danish? This is because it has been voted down by the Danish language users. Why didn't you succeed in introducing the word record storage? Nobody knows what that is, and nobody says it. We say hard drive, and it's called hard drive in Danish. So the language is a vote, and the disadvantages of the Icelandic model are great. I can, of course, point to a country where you have the system, but I can also point out that many people in Iceland think that it does not work very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126120945	After all, nobody in this Chamber is advocating the introduction of the Icelandic model, which has, however, retained the Icelandic language, the Viking language, almost unchanged for a thousand years. Nobody speaks for that here. What we are talking about is safeguarding the current Danish language. And for many years there has been a tendency for the English to have advantages, the foreign language has advantages in universities. It used to be Latin, now it's so English. If we don't take that fight ourselves, sir. Henrik Dahl, if we do not, as legislators and those in power, set the agenda, then it will also be important in the society of the electorate, of the citizens. They cannot fight that battle alone; they need such ones as us to lead it for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121039	However, Jean de France has been a fool's hat for almost 300 years, and the Danish language nevertheless exists. French is no longer such a problem. We live with a Magasin du Nord right here on the King's Nytorv. I have it, I think, empirically justified view back from Holberg's time that the Danes will then, of course, there are some fool hats who would like to season it with Jean de France-like terms, but it is all going well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121112	That's right, of course. On the other hand, times have changed since Holberg. Today, we live in a globalised world where it flushes us every day and where we are under daily pressure of language. If we do not have tools that we can give to people so that they can resist it, then the Danish language will be transformed. There have been a number of debaters who have argued over time that we should have English as a second language next to Danish. The talk alone means that people, Danes, no longer have the confidence and confidence that the rulers will preserve the Danish language as our mother tongue, as our main language. That's what this is all about. That's our sorry, it got a little long.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121214	Thank you very much to the honourable Member of the House, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Since no more people have expressed their wish to speak, the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121238	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121308	Thank you very much. The Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party have proposed, with B-48, that the government change the rules for the distribution of pupils in secondary schools, so that the proportion of pupils with a foreign background at each upper secondary school does not exceed 30%. The motion for a resolution concerns a serious challenge for youth education, which must of course be addressed. I'll get back to that. However, there are serious problems with the proposal. The government acknowledges that some colleges experience professional and educational problems as a result of the cultural clashes that occur in several parts of society. But let me begin by stating that the government cannot support the resolution. While, on the one hand, it is a success that more and more young people with a foreign background are being admitted to youth education, on the other hand, in some places it presents a number of violent challenges, including at stx. The resolution addresses the fact that there are about 15 high schools in Denmark, where there is a tendency for young people with a non-western background to come together in parallel societies. Young communities stand in sharp contrast with the tradition of Danish culture and education on long stretches. These are communities where ethnic Danish young people and Danish culture are in minorities. It creates problems, and I will return to them. The government cannot support the resolution for the following reasons: firstly, the integration task must basically be borne by those who need to be integrated. There is therefore a need for a targeted solution that bothers as few people as possible and does not fundamentally conflict with the way we have chosen to set up the upper secondary school area in Denmark. Secondly, it is unclear whether the proposal remains within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights. Thirdly, there are a number of practical and logistical challenges to the proposal. I mean, how is that gonna be possible? In the West region, the student base with foreign background exceeds 30 per cent. Does the government recognize that there are a number of problems? Yes, very much. Talking to employees and students in these ghetto schools, they report serious problems. It can be trouble with cheating, high absenteeism, apostasy and a lot of noise. In some places, violations of the rules of study and order are common; in others, students expose each other to religious control. And there are also boring examples of different social rules for boys and girls. In the field of upper secondary education, it is therefore a question of whether all pupils respect high school as an educational institution based on Western values and place to live a free youth life. I believe that consistency is a key. There must be consistency and enforcement of both rules of study and order and professional standards. If you can't behave at one high school, you shouldn't be moved to the other. You have to change your behavior or not be in high school at all. Everybody's never been supposed to go to high school. It is subversive to the country's high schools, whose bad behavior spreads and goes beyond good education and professional level. As I have also said in other contexts, within the coming months the government will present its own proposal to address these serious challenges, and it is no secret that I am in favour of consistency and local problem solving. I would like to thank the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party for their resolution. It is important that we also discuss both our youth education and the sad tendencies towards parallel societies on an ongoing basis in this Parliament. But the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121710	You're welcome. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121715	Thank you. The Minister acknowledges that there are problems, but we see a minister who in no way does anything. Since December 2016, we have been asking for real negotiations. In December 2016, we had the Minister of Integration and the Minister of Education in consultation, and there was a big difference in what was meant in the government. It was the case that the Minister for Integration said very clearly that a solution had to be found and that the Minister for Education said that this could not be the case. We had only just returned to the office, and then we were called and told that a temporary solution could be made. Now we had the Minister of Education and Integration in consultation recently. Here the Minister for Integration said: I do not care what solution is going to be, and it can only go too slowly to get it done, and the Minister for Education must do so. Will we see a Minister of Education who, despite opposition, will turn over a plate and make a solution? We hope so in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121828	The problems we are talking about today are serious. They're everywhere in society. They can be found on stx, they can be found on hf, they can be found in folk schools, they can be found in residential areas and they can be found on the streets. This is not an area exclusively concerned with stx. The Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF have today presented a model that the rapporteur refers to as a solution one. But there is never just a solution to a problem. When we in the government cannot vote in favour of the resolution, it is for the three reasons that I started reading. Firstly, the task of integration lies with the person who is not integrated. This means that it is not a task for high school students, as they are most, to solve this problem. It is a task for the person who is not integrated. Secondly, it is unclear whether the proposal remains within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights. Thirdly, there are a number of practical and logistical challenges in the proposal. Is there only one solution to one problem? No, there's never just a solution to a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126121943	Frankly, I think that answer was very wrong. We've raised our hand a lot of times. We have said that local solutions should be made. We've talked to the principals. We have asked in many ways for meetings and negotiations. Meetings have been cancelled, and we have been denied these meetings. I would like to ask the Minister if she really wants to make an agreement in this area, and I would like to ask: Now, in Aarhus, you have found a temporary model, will the Minister approve it? I have also asked the Minister in writing whether the Minister will help to make a solution for the West region for next year. They're yelling for help, they want a solution from next school year. That's what you want all over the country. Now it is no longer just in the big cities that you have this problem. It has to be resolved, and we raise our hand. Local solutions need to be made. What does the Minister say about that? Is the Minister ready to do something now, or is she apologizing for the fact that there is going to be a play? So we can't wait any longer. It's time for action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122054	It was a very long thesis with a lot of built-in questions. Yes, it is quite true that when it comes to cultural clashes, we in the government have decided to address it together. That's because it's an overall problem. It is wrong to regard cultural clash between mainly Middle Eastern cultures and Scandinavian culture as something that takes place on stx. We all know that's not right. It is quite true that the government will present a comprehensive proposal addressing the problem of parallel societies. That is because it is a global challenge that must be addressed together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122137	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122139	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to the section on European human rights that, having examined it, it is my very clear assessment that it does not violate European human rights because the proposal aims to ensure good integration. But instead of making it sound implicit as if it could break human rights, it would have actually dressed the Ministry and the Minister to investigate whether it violates human rights, because it has been known about the proposal for a long time. This is a debate we have had since 2016. However, I believe that it does not violate human rights, and that is of course also important to us. We've been discussing this since 2016. The problems are still there and they are evolving, and we, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that there is a good distribution of pupils, which can both contribute to good integration, but also that there will be neither one kind of parallel society in the high schools. I would just like to ask: is the government making any kind of proposal to ensure a better distribution of pupils than the model you have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122241	Thank you. It is possible that we have been discussing this since 2016. The integration debate is not new, nor will it disappear for the time being. It will be inherited by our children. The problems are so great and diverse and are spreading far beyond what we are addressing here today that I might as well announce right away that it will be a debate that we will continue. And regardless of how we are going to intervene here and reduce the problems, nobody has to stand here and tell each other that the problems of integration are being reduced or eliminated by intervening in stx, which only forms one part of youth education. We simply must not convince each other and the citizens of this. The government is coming up with a joint initiative in the field of parallel society, and it will also include proposals to address specifically the issues of cultural clash on stx.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122348	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is a good idea to secure some kind of new model that will enable students to be better distributed? Does the Minister think this is a good idea or a bad idea? It may be that there was something I just didn't catch, but I didn't quite know if what you did in Aarhus is okay for the minister. Does the Minister think that the distribution model is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122419	In other words, the minister has approved the distribution of students by grade last year in Aarhus. So I have accepted that, because it is a local problem-solving model where intervention is made on the basis of objective criteria, that is. As good as possible. But there is no doubt that every time you intervene here, you risk reducing the rights of high school students, as they are most, and there should be no doubt that I am concerned that high school students, as they are most, should also be able to influence what kind of educational institution they should go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122501	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122505	Thank you. The minister says she approved the model that the distribution committee in Aarhus sent in last year. I asked the same question at the conciliation meeting, but about the new model that the distribution committee sent in on 4 January. It was fair that the Minister did not know about the model quite a few days after we had consulted, but at least 21 days have passed since the distribution committee submitted this model, and it is on all the websites of the Aarhus high schools. So I just have a short question: is that a good model?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122552	It is a model that the Ministry is looking at, and of course I cannot approve or disapprove this from the platform. I hope that the rapporteur will recognise that this is not the way things are done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122607	It's okay. As I understand it, what the Ministry is looking at is whether it is legal, otherwise it is the case that the distribution committees are fairly free to play. It has to be within the limits of the law. So I fully agree with the Minister that it must of course be legal. I am just asking about the position on this: a distribution committee, for example. As has been done here, the distribution is based on some housing criteria in certain residential areas. Is this something that the Minister seems to think could be a way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122645	Thank you. It is precisely true that there must be a legal assessment, and I will not be doing that here on the platform. I have never concealed the fact that my opinion is that we must solve these problems as precisely as we can and with as little inconvenience as possible for high school students as they are most. It is on the basis of the guideline that I assess the political aspects of various solutions. But there are dilemmas in this. There are major dilemmas and I am concerned about whether interventions will hit high school students as they are most. It is from this perspective that I assess each proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122727	Thank you. And if we were to stay in sir... Alex Ahrendtsen's spirit, I would like to thank the honorable Minister for Education. We now come to the rapporteurs and the first is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. That is because the rapporteur for the authors is Mrs Annette Lind, and she will be given the floor in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126122757	Thank you, Mr President. We cannot support the resolution as it stands. The problem of a large proportion of non-western or foreign pupils in the general high school is not a problem that we can spread out of. The problem is the result of a misguided policy of foreigners, which has been pursued since the 1980s by, among others: the parties that have put forward this proposal and, unfortunately, we politicians cannot solve it by moving the pupils around via quotas. Of course, there are limits to how much and how far you can move the students when there are so many. Where, in the end, should they be moved? And why is this resolution only going to the general high school? Why not also commercial and technical high school, and what about vocational schools? There are many educational establishments which have major problems with many non-western pupils, for example. The SOSU programmes are one of them... but these courses aren't even included in this proposal. So the proposal does not solve what it wants to solve. But as I said before, the problem cannot be solved either. The damage from a misguided alien policy is too deep for any snapshot solutions to be found. What you can and must do instead at the high schools is to give all students of course also the non-western ones the best opportunities to acquire knowledge, including, of course, knowledge about Danish language, culture, history and literature, which will give them better opportunities to get settled in Denmark. It is high school's responsibility to adjust their pedagogy to the customers in the store. It is no use having too loose teaching with responsibility for own learning and focusing on the fact that the teaching should be fun and entertaining when the students are not ready for it, and that is what we very often see with students with a different cultural background than Danish. A more principled pedagogy with a focus on professionalism and on the pupils learning is also good for Danes from educational foreign homes, and therefore I believe that such pedagogy can attract and maintain ethnic Danish pupils in schools. Schools have a responsibility to maneuver in the cultural meeting that politicians have imposed on them, and they must ensure that Danish values are preserved, even if there is a majority of foreign-language pupils, and of course we must ensure that the rules of conduct are such that ethnic Danish pupils do not feel bothered, even if they are in the minority as Danes. Management must therefore be very clear about how to behave in schools. The Ministry of Education should consider whether to gather best practices, as it is called, and disseminate constructive advice to the schools facing major challenges, from the schools that have solved the problems or have a good way of dealing with the problems. So I think that it is primarily the pedagogy that we must address. There are schools in Denmark that do it and seem to be successful with it. It seems that the flight of Danish pupils from those schools has stopped, although there are many non-western pupils in the schools. So the most important thing we can do when we face these major problems, which we have everywhere in society in all educational institutions, is, of course, that the accident must be stopped. There should be no more immigrants or refugees who abuse the asylum system to stay in Denmark and thus also increase the problem in the future. This resolution does not solve the problems. We say no to the motion for a resolution. We say no to quotas. We say 'yes' instead of 'yes' to a firm foreign policy and a firm and targeted pedagogy. These are the options we have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123238	There is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123242	Thank you. The rapporteur says that education should be addressed, but is it not the case that at all colleges in Denmark people work with democracy, openness, freedom of prejudice, citizenship and that these are core values? But the problem is that when you crawl together, it doesn't happen in the free areas, it doesn't happen in the social communities, and then it doesn't happen either where you're off duty. So I would like to ask Mrs Krarup whether she does not think it is much more than teaching because it is precisely core values in all high schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123339	It's hard to understand the question. Does the question arise that students with other cultural values should be allowed to behave according to Danish values in their leisure time and leisure time? It would be nice if you could, but you can't. The schools must concentrate on what is their task, and it is to give the students knowledge about certain areas, and then hope that this knowledge, after an old-fashioned information ideal, also rubs off on the soul, inside them, so that they want to behave according to the values that we have in Denmark and which we have had for many, many years. But you can't force it directly on the students. You can hope that it can come. Of course, it is a problem when many pupils of another cultural background are in the same place and try to impose certain values. There is the fact that I say that you have to have clear rules on what can be allowed and what cannot be allowed, but what the students think and feel about whether they feel open or seem open, unfortunately nothing can be done about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123513	In 2016, there were 13 high schools that had more students with different ethnic backgrounds than Danish. Now the minister is talking about there are 15. This is a growing problem. It is no longer just in the big cities. It is also in medium-sized cities that there is the problem of clumping together. The Minister for Integration said in our consultation that it is a huge problem for integration in Denmark when students with other ethnic backgrounds clash together. The principals are asking for help with this. They call it brown and white high schools themselves. Does the rapporteur think that it is good or bad that we have brown and white high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123558	Social democracy failed a historic task by not going against the immigration policy pursued in the 1980s and beyond. It was a huge failure. That is what has led us to find ourselves in the situation we are facing today, which is a huge accident. That is absolutely right. But it cannot be solved with a motion for a resolution setting quotas for general secondary schools, which is a tiny part of Danish society. It's totally grotesque to think that's the solution. No, we're in a huge cultural clash. This is done everywhere in Europe, where unfortunately the same thing has happened: those parties which should have taken responsibility for ensuring that Denmark continued to be Danish failed, and they then made sure that a large part of Denmark today is not Danish. That is the task we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123652	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123656	Thank you. I do not think any of the proposers imagine that this proposal alone will solve the problems of integration in Denmark. I heard the Minister suggesting that too. This is one of many measures that I think need to be taken to help integration on the way. I think we need to do something in the day institutions, in primary and secondary education, and I think we need to do something in the labour market. But I really would like to hear something. In fact, I have a thesis that the Danish People's Party's policy on foreigners has changed a little over the last ten years, that is to say from the start to being an alien policy, which made quite tough demands on how to integrate, so that we now have a desire that they should not be integrated at all. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really think that we should do what we can to integrate these people? Does the rapporteur think that we should do what we can to integrate the people who will live in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123759	The rapporteur is well aware that what we stand for in the Danish People's Party is to ensure that refugees are treated as refugees and not as immigrants, which means that they will not automatically be in Denmark for life. They must, of course, return to the countries from which they come when there is peace in those countries, and therefore the people who are to be returned should not be integrated into Denmark. It is, in fact, child abuse to ensure that children coming from Arab countries do not learn Arabic, but only learn Danish when they go back to an Arab country or whatever they come from. So it goes without saying. But the people who are in Denmark and who have no opportunity to come back must of course be integrated. It's clear. That is one of the things we want so much in all areas and where we pursue a policy that is towards the goal that, of course, they become Danish and, in the long term, are assimilated into the Danish. Of course. I just don't think this resolution will solve it. It is a tiny sector that has been taken out and said that here the children have to be driven around. What you will see is that private schools will be set up to a greater extent. I don't think you're gonna get the mix you want. I do not think that we will get round the educational issue if we want both Danes and non-dancing to have a proper upper secondary education. This must also be done in all other institutions, i.e. at primary school level, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123940	A small service announcement: Also Friday afternoon we drive by a whole minute and half a minute for questions and answers. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126123948	Thank you. I am actually pleased that the rapporteur says that the aim must still be to integrate those people who will live in Denmark in the future who are not refugees. Then we can disagree on the other, but I just think that's a little important. If we then put away the failed immigration policy of the 1980s and 1990s and look at what we are doing now, now that we have some problems, I would like to hear: does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that we have high schools in Denmark, where more than half is of other ethnic origin? I am not saying that because there is something wrong with the young people themselves, but because I think it is detrimental to integration and to the cohesion and coherence of society. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem for integration that we have such a distribution between high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124032	Of course it's a problem. It's a huge problem, and it shouldn't be there. But it is there, and then you have to try to create the best possible education and education, that is, the one from which the students benefit most. If you do so and are able to create an environment where the Danish minority also wants to be there, then it is that the task succeeds as well as it can now succeed, and that is what I think we should aim for. And it doesn't succeed, but I think it can, because there are examples of this, it may be that you have to go back to the school district system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124118	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124121	I would like Mrs Krarup to elaborate on that. Is it that we should go back to school districts, a position that the Danish People's Party has in the field of high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124135	It is not a proposal we have put forward, but if we cannot make this work, it may be that we may have to do so in the longer term. What I mean is, this hasn't been tried yet. There are some schools that have introduced clear, precise, consistent behavior rules and clear, precise and consistent pedagogy, and it looks as if it works. If we can get all schools that have these challenges to do the same, it may be that we can make things go as well as it can now be done on the basis of the huge problems, for which the Radical Left in particular is responsible, with regard to the immigration policy that has been conducted for many years. If we do not succeed and we do not know for a while that it may be that another solution is to go back to school districts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124228	I think it is very interesting about school districts, and I think we should discuss that in more detail. You can talk about how far we have to go before we say that things are not going well anymore. I recognise that in the long, long, by far the vast majority of high schools in the quite Danish country are doing very well, and there is not a challenge here, but there are some places where it is a challenge around the larger cities and now also starting in some smaller municipalities. So I actually think we're somewhere where we're gonna have to stop and ask what's going on here. On e.g. Copenhagen West, where some of my family members, pear Danish all the way through, can choose the local high school where 80% goes. with other ethnic origins, or choose to take over the municipality border and go to Roskilde, the question is who it is, this free school choice benefits. At least some people do not really see that they have a free choice of school. I would like to ask Mrs Krarup when we should do something, when the Danish People's Party is ready to talk about this and perhaps take concrete action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124341	After all, we are waiting for a government proposal to come forward, which has said that something will be done in this area, but I think it is right to question how free a choice one actually has, and what I think is the most worrying thing is that neither parents nor pupils can predict what high school is possible to get into, because it is so unpredictable what actually happens, that is, where a fashion arises and where one group and another group are going, and there would be school districts that would create a predictability, so that with their feet you could vote a long time in advance and simply move where you want to be. But I think it is too early to make that proposal. Firstly, because we are waiting for the government to come up with a proposal, and secondly because I believe that this is not the whole solution either, because we will still need a cover-up as far as teaching is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124440	Thank you very much, Mrs Krarup, for today's work. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mads Fuglede Sorry, it's the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124500	Thank you for the floor. Since the Left rapporteur, Anni Matthiesen, is prevented from being in the Chamber today, I am the one standing here. When dealing with B 48, I can begin by telling you that the Left will vote against the proposal. With this resolution, the Social Democrats, the SF and the Radical Left propose that we set a fixed percentage of how diverse a high school class is allowed to be. We in the Left clearly recognise that in some colleges there are challenges arising from cultural clashes. We recognise that there are academic and educational problems in some of the colleges which have a very high proportion of foreign pupils. We recognise that there are integration problems that we have to solve, but also that these problems are so great and have spawned over so many years throughout our society that they are not solved by merely narrowly looking at this area. The failed integration with which we live, with which we have a political responsibility to resolve, requires us to look much wider at the issue. That was the background to the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, and that is the background to the work that is now going on in the government. That is why we are working on a proposal to deal with the cultural clash that is taking place, among other things. Youth training, but also in a wide range of other areas. So briefly: The Left believes that we do not solve the integration challenges by simply creating a new distribution model for the high schools. Although we are pleased that these things are being taken care of locally, we need more effort, and the package of parallel societies that has been put into perspective is the one that needs to be used to deal with this. It is, of course, a package in which work on it is still going on and I cannot lift the veil on the content here today. I therefore hope that we will just shake our heads against this motion for a resolution so that we have the patience that is needed in this area so that we can look forward to a series of proposals coming in the spring that will deal with the challenges that are and which have also been raised in this resolution. Against this background, the Left will vote against the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124730	You're welcome. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124736	Thank you. I therefore agree that it is necessary to look more closely than just at the distribution of pupils in order to ensure better integration in Denmark. And I look forward to having negotiations on the parallel society package. Having said that, I have heard the Minister for Integration say, in two consultations, that a different distribution of pupils from that which we have today, which gives up a little freedom of choice in schools in order to ensure good integration, could actually be a way. And I also read that Mr. Carl Holst has been out saying the same thing in primary school. It is not certain that this proposal is completely the model it is going to end up in, but I think there is still a task to ensure that we get a better distribution than the one we have today. And I actually had the impression that the Left meant that. So now I would like to ask: has the Left changed its position on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124833	No, we have not changed our position in the Left on this issue. But we in the Left recognise that, in an ideal world, legislation in this area would not be necessary at all. And that is why we are pleased that we have such an ideal government that there are many proposals on the table for how we can solve this problem. We basically do not want to have to address this at all by talking about quotas in any area. However, we also recognise that it may be a tool that can be included in a solution model. We just haven't adopted a model yet, because we're in the middle of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124912	Thank you. Yes, it is unfortunately not an ideal world, and there are often people who accuse us SFs of going and talking about the ideal world. However, I am glad that the Left has not completely abandoned the idea of changing the way in which pupils are distributed. And I would just like to hear what the rapporteur really thinks about the fact that both the rectors and the pupils and the teachers have gone out to say that there is a need for some other way of distributing students than the one they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126124946	Well, I think that is something we should listen to in person. And I have seen with great interest what is going on, especially in East Jutland, and I believe that if you think of something that we should bear in mind locally, we must learn from the experience you reap there and let it be included in our consideration of the area as a whole, even without us, and I do not have to promise that here we will land on a model that reminds us of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125016	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125019	Thank you. I believe that everyone who has followed the debate here on the distribution of pupils knows that there is a great deal of disagreement in the government on this issue. We have an integration minister who says freely translated: this is going too slowly, we have to make a solution. I really don't care how it's gonna be solved, just as long as the Minister of Education gets a solution. The Minister for Education has not done so, nor has he shown any interest in doing so during the many months we have been working on this issue. The Minister for Integration also says that it is a huge problem for integration that ethnic pupils clash together. Does the rapporteur agree with his own Minister for Integration and does the rapporteur think that a solution should be found in this area so that we can have a temporary solution for Aarhus and for the Western Region next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125115	I understand that it is the role of the opposition to botanise in various statements by the government and to present it as a dispute. I don't see it that way. I see this as a field where different models are assessed and discussed, and you have not landed on a final yet. Mrs Inger Løjberg has expressed her views in this area, and I know that they are part of the negotiations. And I cannot tell you where those proposals will end. It would just be really weird if I stood there and did it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125156	Now you have to be exceptionally deaf if you couldn't hear the difference between the government's two parties compared to this area. There is no doubt that the Minister for Integration is in favour of a solution. That was clearly stated. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: will the rapporteur of the Left help to push for a solution to be found as soon as possible by the Minister of Education in this area, which is being called for by teachers, pupils, rectors and everyone in the sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125229	We in the Left are very pleased that the Minister of Education is already working on this area and that we are working on a larger solution for the problems of parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125242	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125244	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Left says that we must shake our heads and be patient. I actually feel that I think we have been too patient. It is more than a year ago that this discussion was up and the first conciliation was convened, where we accepted that the government just needed to fall into place after two new parties had joined the government, that is to say to find out where the new government stood. Now we are here a year later, and it is two minutes to twelve if we are to distribute the students to the new high school admissions. It's time to start new students here in August. The rapporteur then says that we just have to wait for the government's parallel community action, and he also says that you cannot know what the content is. I have such respect for that. But could we perhaps get the veil lifted on what the time horizon is, so that we can get an assessment of whether, due to too much circle in the government, we are now at risk of another high school take-up with even greater distortion of the distribution of high school students? Or are there actually opportunities to change the announcement so that the students are distributed according to some more reasonable principles from this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125355	The solution to the failure of integration at home is one that we share with many, many countries. It has been going on for a number of years and there is no easy answer to it. That is why there is no rapid process for it either. It must take the time it takes, and this is so complex that there isn't a corner we can just put on a Band-Aid and then expect the problem to go away. It is part of a wide range of proposals that move across a wide range of ministries, and that is one of the reasons why there is no rapid solution to it. Otherwise, I guess we'd have made it a long time ago. After all, we have had this problem for a number of years across many governments. And that is why I think we should just shake our heads and wait for a number of proposals to be put in place to address the problems of parallel societies in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125452	Now the rapporteur says that this is a complex issue and that it is a problem that has existed for a number of years, under many governments. I don't think that's quite right. Well, what we've seen over the last 2, 3, maybe 4 years, is that it's gone really fast with the ethnic division of pupils in high schools. If you visit a high school located in my vicinity, the High Taastrup High School, you will see that there is actually a majority of students of Danish origin in 3rd g, but that in 1st g there is 80 per cent. from immigrant families. It has gone quite fast, and if we are going to add another year, it will just become even more biased. It may be that this is complex, but I guess it's no more complex than that we can expect after a year's circle in the government that the government actually has a bid for how we deal with this challenge. Now we stand here two minutes to twelve, and we try to be as patient as we can possibly be, and ask in all silence: Is there any possibility that the government can present something that makes it possible to change the announcement of admission for 2018? Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125552	No, I am not aware of anything that should actually be an issue that should be addressed to the Minister rather than to the rapporteur here. But I can just say in all peaceableness that we believe that this is one of the biggest problems of our time and that we want to work on a number of proposals that need to lift this. The Prime Minister spoke of this in his New Year's speech, and that has been what we have been discussing in the government on a regular basis. As a field of effort, it is the most important thing for our time. We will be reminded of whether we are able to solve this in our society, because we are facing a challenge that is only getting bigger and bigger. And that's it, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says when he talks about it being tapered in recent years. It is constantly gaining ground, and that is why we need to find a good and proper solution that is long-lasting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125645	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126125657	The change in student composition at many of our high schools is currently taking place at an alarmingly high rate, and the trend is unmistakable. It is moving towards an increasing social and ethnic division of pupils. To put it mildly, it is quite obvious that young people from the neat residential neighbourhoods and young people from disadvantaged non-profit-making residential areas are moving their separate ways to an ever greater extent when they are looking for high school. The results can be seen in the high schools, where the differences in the composition of pupils are increasing. The social divides may at first sight not appear so clearly, but they are there. The differences in ethnicity appear immediately more clearly, and that is at least what is evident from the debate today where the major political focus is. I find it regrettable that the focus is so one-sided there. A one-sided focus on the ethnic background of the pupils alone could lead to a wrong analysis of the situation, a wrong assessment of the situation, and a risk of the wrong political decisions being taken. Having said that, we in the Enhedslisten agree with the proposers that the development of pupil composition in high schools is a serious problem. We are deeply concerned about the social and ethnic distortion that is taking place and we are quite sure that it will not just go away by itself if we do nothing. On the other hand, we do not agree with the proposal to solve the problems. We think it would be wrong to set a limit on how many students with foreign backgrounds can be admitted to the individual high school. This does not mean that we want to maintain the existing distribution model. We agree with the need for initiatives. We agree that rapid initiatives are needed to promote a different distribution of pupils, so that pupils from different social and ethnic backgrounds will have a more common everyday life in high school. We do not believe that this will be possible without removing the restrictions or imposing restrictions on free choice in high school, which, moreover, as many have said, is in fact an illusion for a great many pupils. We haven't settled on a finished model, but we think it would be very wise to consider a distribution system with some kind of district structure, so as a starting point you go on your • what should we call it? It could be a general model we use all over the country. It may also be the case that we say that the challenges are different, which is why we can consider giving the regions a competence to define such districts so that they can be shaped according to local conditions. We also think it is important that other rapporteurs have already mentioned the fact that we are not focusing unilaterally on stx. After all, there is always a movement towards more and more people going to a technical high school or a commercial high school. It will be obvious that if we have to regulate this, we should do it so that it covers the whole high school world. We believe that further action is needed if we are to make the whole change of the distribution system work. We believe that it is necessary to go in quite firmly and set a ceiling on the capacity of some colleges so that they cannot expand at the expense of others. We believe that the taximeter system is needed, where we need to think both better basic grants and a better social taximeter. And quite low-practical: If we look at what it costs at some high schools, if you sign up for a course of study with three or four study trips to foreign goals, then it is quite obvious that the high self-payment there is is also helping to increase social sorting in high schools. So, overall, it is high time that changes were made to the distribution system, but in our view this should be carried out in the form of a series of coherent measures, and we believe that the introduction of a ceiling on admission, which focuses unilaterally on the ethnic background of pupils, is wrong. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130206	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130214	Thank you for the floor. With motion for a resolution B 48, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to introduce the rule that the proportion of pupils with a foreign background at each high school must not exceed 30%. After all, some very serious problems lie behind the proposal. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned this. After all, Danish society is similar to many other Western European societies in that it is struggling with a growing group of people who have a background in the Middle East, North Africa and neighbouring countries and who do not want to integrate. It affects certain residential areas, it affects the primary school, and it affects virtually all the youth education courses, or I would almost say all the upper secondary schools, not just the upper secondary schools, which are covered by this motion for a resolution, and it affects certain higher education. In fact, it affects almost all aspects of social life, and it also substantially seizes the state's finances. I would therefore like to say, like the previous rapporteurs, that the unwillingness to integrate which characterizes parts of the population who have migrated from the Middle East is the greatest problem for the generation of politicians who are active in these years at all. The question then is whether the motion for a resolution that has been tabled will solve any of the problems I have outlined. And that is not the only reason why, for some strange reason, it is all about stx and disregards vocational training, hf, vuc and a number of other upper secondary educations where similar problems are experienced. At the same time, the medicines that are prescribed against the problem are fairly harsh, namely the abolition of free secondary school elections. So because, as part of the biggest social problem facing our generation of politicians, there are problems in certain high schools, freedom must be taken away from anyone who wants to go to high school. In this way, it has to be said that motion for a resolution B 48 is merely symptom treatment, which will not really solve anything, but which, in turn, will take away the freedom of a large number of young people who would like to receive youth education. So I will conclude by saying that it is not, of course, because I do not recognise the problem described by the proposers, but, on the other hand, the proposers have succeeded in putting forward a proposal which is at the same time very drastic and does not work, and it is in a way well done. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130549	There are a few brief comments, and the first brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130557	Thank you. I would like a little discussion with the Liberal Alliance on the concept of freedom. A mother calls me. She lives in Avedoer close to Hvidovre Gymnasium and says that she herself has been happy to go to Hvidovre Gymnasium, and that her oldest child has been happy to go to Hvidovre Gymnasium, but that her youngest child certainly should not go to Hvidovre Gymnasium because the proportion of young people from immigrant families is now so high that her experience is that it is really not a choice for her to choose the local high school. Her child will therefore have to jump on the S-train and drive away from her local area. Is she really free to go to high school? Wouldn't we just establish free secondary school by ensuring a mixed composition of pupils, making sure that whatever high school in the metropolitan area they applied to, the daughter would be able to know that it would be a high school at which she could feel at home, culturally, socially? Doesn't freedom require politicians to intervene every once in a while and establish the framework within which freedom is to function? Otherwise, it's just jungle law. It's jungle law we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130703	What is the problem in high schools, where there is a very large proportion of pupils with a background in the Middle East, is that there will be some of these pupils who, so to speak, take pride in taking the freedom from the rest of the school, thus preventing people from having the youth life that they have, and at all events unfolding as you like. Social control is what's gonna happen. It's familiar. This is a problem that we need to solve, but it is just not the solution by involving more freedom. I am completely opposed to these groups of students taking freedom from their comrades, from those who were supposed to be their comrades. But the way forward is just not to further restrict freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130759	When the young girl I told you about before doesn't even want to go to Hvidovre Gymnasium, or her parents don't want to send their child to Hvidovre Gymnasium, it's not due to social control by young Muslims at Hvidovre Gymnasium. She won't be subject to that. Nor is it because it is a poor educational institution. They score very well on all parameters, they get higher education, they get great grades, and they do well in school. This is not an educational policy issue. This is an integration policy issue, because our view is that we will never make integration work unless we meet. I have noted that both the Minister and the bourgeois rapporteurs have made this a question of radicalisation, social control and extremism, but that is not what this is about. What this is about is that the 9th-class girl who is now growing up in Avedoer wants to have a high school time with well-functioning Friday café and parties, the opportunity to have a girlfriend, and as the minister says: short skirts and everything that belongs to youth life. We agree on that. However, if we are to establish real freedom for youth life at the local high school, it requires political action, and that is the political action that the government refrains from, and that is what I regard as an apprehension. Isn't there a need for a little more courage?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126130917	Neither the Folketing nor the government should decide on the basis of anecdotes, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is here telling. We need a comprehensive approach to the problems, and we also need to have the right approach to the problems. It is popularly said that it is not Danish children's job to integrate someone. It is people who come to Denmark's task to integrate. And there I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that there is a need for a paradigm change in the way we understand these things. Moreover, as an empirical fact, I am very, very doubtful that the meeting itself has an integral effect on people who do not want to be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131005	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131006	Actually, I think it does. I believe that, in order to integrate people, people must, as a starting point, meet and hear what each other thinks and thinks and what values each other has. I have read a headline which has just got stuck in my mind and I imagine that the rapporteur can feel the same way. It was called: there is something we Liberals need to talk about. I think that's pretty good. There were a lot of things in the speech, but I actually think there is something we Liberals need to talk about, because I also believe that socialists are liberals, because we are in favour of freedoms. But the problem is that sometimes what may look like freedom can create freedom for some. That's what I hear, too. Mattias Tesfaye say. In other words, the free choice of schools, as it is called, helps to create freedom for a number of people, both in relation to who is mobile and who can take far, but also in relation to integration. So I would actually just like to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that free school choice is absolutely good, or are there any negative aspects of free school choice? Can it actually help to create freedom for some?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131115	Well, basically, the way forward isn't to make an isolated solution for stx, as this proposal suggests. It is clear, of course, that free choice of school, as it is now, will in some cases lead to the emergence of some high schools where a great many pupils come from the Middle East. They then have a culture that has some very negative consequences or is experienced as having some very negative consequences. Of course, we need to find some overall solution to that. But that is a very, very small part of the problem we are seeing here, because it is a problem which is all about the fact that we now have the third generation, which does not integrate satisfactorily. We have to tackle this, and then such a partial solution is simply not the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131219	As I said earlier, we do not imagine that this will solve all the problems. But we've only just started this debate on distributing people. It goes to elementary school, sir. Carl Holst from the Left has opened it himself in relation to the residential areas, and it is already there about the combined rental. Now it's here, too, in youth education. And I also believe that we need to find a broader solution. Is the rapporteur totally opposed to the idea that integration would benefit if some of the residential areas where people are isolated were split up, if some of the primary schools were split up, if the pupils were isolated as a result of parents' choices, and if some of the youth education were split up, people would meet across? Can't this be a way to better integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131304	I believe that this is basically a wrong paradigm if we are to imagine that we have to solve the problems by abolishing freedom, for example. elementary school or upper secondary school. I fully agree with the historical presentation of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the fact that we have to say: who is responsible for integrating? These are the people who have come here from the Middle East and have a culture that is experienced as unpleasant and destructive for many Danish children. They must be brought to be popularly said to behave; it is not something to wipe off on everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131346	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131349	After all, it is not entirely foreign to the Liberal Alliance to want to regulate at times. It is not the case that I never hear the Liberal Alliance advocate any form of regulation at all. That's why I'm thinking it might be that Mr. Henrik Dahl thinks it is an anecdote that the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party brings, but then you can look at the figures. Then you can look at how many Western municipalities actually choose to go to high schools above the local boundaries, such as: chooses to go from Høje Taastrup to Roskilde. There are, of course, figures that show that really, a great many from completely Pearl families choose to take over the municipality limit because the high school in their local area does not reflect the general population composition. And it is an insult to parents to say that they have a really free choice. - Sir... Does Henrik Dahl not even point to any place where the Liberal Alliance will be involved in regulating so that we can have a better distribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131458	I have publicly stated that when it comes to pineapples on pizza, the state must use its full regulatory power; I am a very warm supporter of that. This is not what the question is about, but it is about how schools work. What is crucial is that young people who enter high schools learn to behave properly, and if they do not know how to behave properly, they must be helped to behave properly. It is of course no use that all sorts of unbiased people should bear that there is a group from the Middle East which, because of their culture, cannot find a way of doing what is usually just called proper behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131537	But I think there's a huge problem, and here comes again, sorry, an anecdote. If Fatima, who lives out in Høje Taastrup, really, really wants to go to a high school where there are short skirts and where she may be allowed to feel more free than in the family in which she lives, where she thinks there is a little much social control she would really, really like to enter a gymnasium full of Danish values, Danish culture, Danish song and music where is her choice? Where's her chance to choose that high school? I don't think we're giving her the free choice to integrate. I would like to know what the rapporteur thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131621	What is the problem is that there is a hard core of Middle Eastern cultural background that takes away the freedom of all the young people who do not want to conform to the standards they think are right. It is then the group that takes the freedom from other young people that is the problem, and everyone else should not bear that group not being able to behave according to normal Danish standards. So that's who we're gonna get. We shouldn't bother everyone else. They are the ones who take freedom, and I am willing to look at that, because of course they must behave properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131657	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131659	Well, I am somewhat puzzled by the view that it is they who must be integrated that carry the task. Several have mentioned High Taastrup High School. Let us make it concrete: 80%. of the young people who go to the Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium in the first year have a different ethnic background than Danish. There are probably in the order of 80-100 pupils of ethnic Danish origin who are looking across the border with Roskilde. How are young people of other ethnic origin to solve the challenge of integration? Are they going to follow Roskilde, or how does the rapporteur think this should be done in practical terms, since it is now the young people with an ethnic Danish background who are leaving high school in High Taastrup?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131749	But basically, people who come to Denmark to stay permanently in Denmark must integrate themselves into a Danish reality. Surely it cannot be the case that people who have always lived in Denmark must adapt, metaphorically speaking, guests who come in through the front door. In other words, of course, people who come here must integrate, and we must then explain this more clearly. It can't be right for people who have been here all the time to change themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131821	I'm just trying to figure out what that means in concrete terms. What exactly does this mean for the young person who lives in High Taastrup and applies to her local high school, because there she wants to go, that young people around her think that high school has been so socially burdened, or what you think they are looking for somewhere else? What are you gonna do? Does that not mean that we have to say: well, this cannot be solved by the free choice of the individual, which we have to take social responsibility? After all, it is a community in which everything cannot be left to the responsibility of the individual, but where we sometimes have to take joint responsibility if there is a common problem to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131907	We must deal with the problem, we must not deal with the symptoms, and the problem is that in high schools there is a hard core of people with a Middle Eastern background who are denying the freedom of those who do not want to correct, and they must, of course, stop doing so. There I agree with what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has said, namely that they must then be helped to do so. Surely it is not intended to be anyone other than those who is causing the problems to take the lead in resolving them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131937	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126131945	Thank you, sir. President. I must begin by admitting that it has not been quite easy for us to take a position on this resolution, because in the alternative, we fully agree with the proposers and also with many others in this Chamber that there is a challenge to be solved. We also agree that we should be as mixed as possible in all our social institutions, not only in high schools and not just in stx, but in general across culture, religion, gender and ethnicity, and what else separates us from areas that are also in the local areas should we be a little more mixed. However, we are still voting against this resolution, and we are doing so primarily for two reasons. One has not been so much mentioned today, which I think is a pity, but it is that we are not going to vote in the alternative for a policy that divides people on the basis of ethnicity, because it is, in fact, illegal, and that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. I am surprised that we have not talked about it any more, but if we are finally to distribute pupils, we must at least find some other parameters that are not illegal and that do not distribute people on the basis of their ethnicity. The second relates to a slightly more fundamental issue, which is also in some way difficult to address. I tried to put it when we were in consultation on this subject a few weeks ago, which is exactly what the problem is. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye and I had the pleasure of each other... at least it was a pleasure on my part... on Tuesday... when we were about to record a long time from Borgen... on this very subject. We were at the High Taastrup Gymnasium, and some of what I was trying to get an answer to during the day was what kind of problems we are talking about. We can say that yes, it is in itself a problem that we are not more mixed, because we would ideally like us to go side by side in our daily lives with those who are not like us. But what does it give rise to problems that a high school like High Taastrup High School has some and seventy percent bilingual, or which is not of ethnic Danish origin? Does this damage integration in the longer term? And if it does, how does it do it? No one can answer that question. I do not think so in itself, but what is interesting is what we were told on Tuesday, and that was new knowledge for me, namely that at the High-Taastrup Gymnasium, where there is this high percentage of bilingual, there are more who get higher education than the average in Denmark. So that means that in those high schools where there is a high proportion of bilingual there are more going out and receiving higher education. And what other and better parameter for strengthening cohesion, respect for Danish values, Danish society is there than going to a higher education in Denmark at a state Danish institution? So sometimes we have to keep in mind what we really are talking about. These people actually go out and get an education in our educational institutions, which I still think everything else has quite a focus on the educational aspect, the idea that we should live together as citizens of Danish society. So we must be careful about the premise of the problem and we disagree with the means presented here. Having said that, we agree, as I said at the beginning, that we would like to distribute our students somewhat better, but we simply disagree with the way they are presented. I also think that some of what we learned on Tuesday, which is a problem, is that in some of the high schools that have many bilinguals, there is nothing very strong social life, and I think this is a pity for the young people, which is why it is also a pity when the Danish students choose it out, because of course it should be there, as part of going to a youth education course is to do music and theatre together, have running clubs together and go to Friday bar. So, of course, there is a challenge. Can you solve it in other ways than what is being presented here? Yes, I think we can, and I think that is what we need to talk about instead of saying yes or no to a specific proposal. Could you lift the social meter to those high schools where we know there is a large percentage of bilingual? Rysensteen Gymnasium right over here is super popular because of their global citizenship line, so why don't we give the High-Taastrup Gymnasium a higher social taximeter so they can create such a line, perhaps even a better line with even better offers, perhaps a trip to New York on their line to the students? Then there will be Danish students down there. At Himmelev Gymnasium, where we were also, they have a Team Denmark line, and why isn't there a Team Denmark line at Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium instead of the hf line that you could move to Himmelev Gymnasium, because hf we also attract a larger proportion of the bilingual ones. There are plenty of other options to make some models that attract the Danish students to some of these high schools, which today, with a very ugly word that I do not subscribe to at all, we call ghetto high schools. So my point is: yes, we agree that there is a problem; we have to be careful how we talk about it in relation to what the premise of the problem is; and we should not solve it by dividing students on the basis of ethnicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132446	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132450	Thank you. I did not quite understand, frankly, whether the alternative thinks it is a problem or not. On the one hand, the rapporteur starts by saying that we want a different distribution and that there is a problem, and on the other hand, the rapporteur spends quite a long time describing that there are many pupils from, for example. High-Taastrup Gymnasium, which takes a higher education course, actually shows that you succeed with integration and that you cannot just look at ethnicity or the fact that there is 80%. students in a vintage, in themselves. So I actually didn't quite understand if you think it's a problem. I believe that this is a problem from such an integration point of view. I agree with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says this isn't about education, it's about integration. Now the rapporteur said a little bit about this with ethnicity. When I think we've landed there and landed on integration, it's actually because we've wanted to find something objective, precisely so that it wasn't some kind of taste judgment from Christiansborg, but something objective, and it was the same thing that was done at Langkaer Gymnasium. After all, classes were divided according to ethnicity, because it was thought that it was right for the upper secondary education if it was to be reduced that the pupils went away. Does the rapporteur think that this was a wrong decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132604	To start with, yes, it is in principle a wrong decision, because we should not divide on the basis of ethnicity. We simply have to be too big for that in our country, and I would hope that a party like the Socialist People's Party will support that, so that it is in principle wrong to divide our citizens on the basis of ethnicity. This is contrary to our Convention on Human Rights. In relation to the other, I understand the confusion. However, my point was that no, we do not see that this in itself is a problem for integration. Of course, it doesn't harm integration, everything else just helps, among other things. integration, but integration is not just about sitting next to each other. It is an active value in our society that we must work with. We must challenge our students on what it means to respect each other. What does it mean, even if we are not alike or eat the same food? At the same time, however, we must respect the fact that we act differently and that we live differently. It is an educational value, and the educational value we actively work with in our education system. That is why it is also about education. Integration and education cannot be separated. Integration, tolerance and respect are an active social value with which we must work and which we must defend. It doesn't come by itself. That is why I believe that this is linked to education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132714	They did it in Langkas because they saw the students go away. That's actually what started this whole debate. No, I didn't think it was a good solution, but it was the best solution in the situation they were in. I'm sure of that when they assessed that. I would really like to hear what criteria we have to distribute. Are those grades? Is that language? These are some of the things we have been through to consider. What, then, is to be used to distribute? I am very much in favour of finding a better solution than the one that is exactly here, but for me it is actually important that it is something objective, and for me it is actually important that we help the high schools that are around. But what are the criteria on which we should distribute them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132807	But even if you did it at Langkaer because you thought it was the right thing to do at that time, I can still disagree in principle with the way in which students are distributed, and I am still doing so. That is why I think that we should go in and resolve something in the short run here. By saying yes or no today, we must find a solution that is sustainable. We may not be able to implement it this summer, but it is something that we can work with, just like on the long track, so that we get our students distributed appropriately and according to what attracts them. What are we going to have for criteria? In other words, we have nothing against the current criteria. It is so true that it does not work anywhere, but optimally one had a distance criterion if one also had some residential areas which were more diversely composed. This is ultimately a housing policy problem because we have residential areas that are so homogeneous both on one side and on the other side, i.e. both white and dark, right? So if we want to do this, we need a different housing policy and then a distance criterion. At least we'll have our students distributed in a different way. If you were finally to talk about other award criteria, you could look at grades from the 9th grade degree. It's not something that necessarily works. It is a thought that could be looked at, because it affects more socially, we know, because we know that the nature also reflects, you can say, social challenges and the social compositions of our society. So maybe it was an opportunity, but it's not something I'm gonna be pleading for today. It's just a thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132929	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126132943	The school is one of the most important communities we have. At school, the foundations of the society in which we are to live together are laid. It is at school that we get to know each other across social and cultural differences, and that is also where we learn to recognize ourselves in each other. By school, I mean not just primary school. For even when we become young and are in the process of separating ourselves from our parents and really finding our own identity, the school and the people and comrades with whom we spend 7-8 hours every day are crucial for the rest of our lives. I think there are a lot of people in this Chamber who still have friends who they came to know about their youth education. I certainly do. And many of them, with whom I went to high school, came from completely different homes and had a completely different background than me. Of course, it marked and multiplied our view of each other, but also of ourselves. But the school community cannot take for granted, and when some colleges around Denmark reflect social and ethnic dividing lines, we must be concerned, and then we must act. Because it's not good when some young people, especially in the West region outside Copenhagen and around Aarhus and Odense, and now there are also some trends in Kolding, where I myself went to high school no longer go to school together, but next to each other. This helps to reinforce the differences in our society rather than to break them down. And that's problematic. The composition of pupils in high schools should be characterised by diversity. The meeting with it will expand the young people's horizon, the meeting will dispel prejudices, the meeting will avoid fragmentation. These are the ideas behind which I and the Radical Left, together with the S and SF, are today tabling the motion for a resolution to amend the rules governing the distribution of pupils in high schools. As you know, the proposal is that the proportion of pupils with a foreign background at each high school should not exceed 30%. The model will ensure that there will be mixed classes at Danish secondary schools. This also ensures diversity and, hopefully, understanding of diversity. But it is also important for me to make it clear that the Radical Left is not locked on this proposal. We are very open to discussion and we are also very keen to see other models. Our starting point is that we would like to see the problems resolved locally in the individual distribution committees themselves in respect and in solidarity. That is how we have gone to work around Aarhus in the Central Region, and the compromise that a unanimous distribution committee has proposed should apply to the high schools here, I think perhaps in reality is an even better proposal than the B proposal we have presented today. So it is not because the Radical Left thinks that this resolution is the one that solves all the problems, but we are co-sponsors of it because we want something to happen in this area. And the proposal will certainly solve a problem for some Western gymnasiums, which I hope we can all agree on are challenged. In these words, of course, the Radical Left supports the motion for a resolution. And then I really hope that the Minister will take note of this proposal, but also of the clear expression of other government parties, and as soon as possible call us for some negotiations so that we can get a Danish secondary school back into balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133320	It gave rise to a few brief remarks. The first brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133326	The very major integration problems we have in Denmark arose in the 1980s because the Radical Left at the time led in particular by Bernhard Baunsgaard was pushing for a change in the law on foreigners. They have become worse and worse as the decades have gone by, or at least until 2001. We have been able to slow down developments, but we have not really been able to reverse it. It goes on. Now that the problems have hit Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen's old high school, there is a motion for a resolution to the effect that the lack of integration is now too bad. Is it the case that the Radical Left will not really get out of the holes until the members of the Radical Left, their nephews and nieces suffer? Or how can we understand the delay between the creation of the problems in the 1980s and the resolution now in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133431	We can use a lot of gunpowder in this room to blame each other. I could also say that these problems really arose when we started getting self-serving high schools and the complete free admission to high schools. As a starting point, we have no problem with free secondary school elections, but you just have to intervene when you see that something is not working. And whether it is Bernhard Baunsgaard's fault that everything is so terrible today must stand for Mr. Henrik Dahl's own bill. I just don't think it helps any parents or any high school students that we stand here in Parliament and discuss whether it is Bernhard Baunsgaard's fault that we have the problems that we are experiencing today. I think it is all too easy just to say that it is because something went wrong in the 1980s and that, incidentally, it is also the fault of the Radical Left. What is the answer to the parents and students who are going to start a high school in Western Denmark tomorrow? That is the answer that we should sit down together and discuss. What kind of answer do we have to give them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133540	If a floor property is on fire, it is a very strange strategy to fight the fire that you decide to put out the fire on the third floor. In other words, there are problems everywhere in youth education, and then there is a motion for a resolution which is about size! It is very difficult to see what rational sense it makes only to put out the fire on the third floor. Can the rapporteur explain a little about the rational content behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133613	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I agree that this individual proposal in no way solves all the problems. There are also problems elsewhere than on stx. I fully acknowledge that. The Radical Left is so and if it is the case that the rapporteur and, in particular, the Minister, who comes from the rapporteur's party, will be involved in discussing these issues together with the Radical Left, then we would be very happy to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133646	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133649	I would like to say that I welcome the rapporteur's speech, but I would nevertheless like to hear: does the Radical Left not have any doubts about a proposal which is quite clearly and solely based on ethnicity? And is it not true that it is either at odds with or approaching something that is at odds with the way we perceive human rights? Having said that, however, I would like to say that I noticed that the rapporteur was very interested when there was talk of school districts from the platform. Is it the case that the Radicals could envisage participating in the preparation of a proposal which included real school districts as a model for the distribution of pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133741	First of all, I should like to say very briefly about human rights: yes, we have been concerned and we have looked at it, and we have looked at the various statements that have been made, among other things. on the way Langkaer Gymnasium distributed their students in classes a few years ago. The Institute for Human Rights was initially saying that it was not allowed, but subsequently began to be a little more hesitant. So it's not clear. We do not consider this proposal to be contrary to human rights. In relation to school districts, we would really like to discuss whether this is a workable model. We would also like to discuss whether it is a model that should apply to the whole of Denmark or whether it is a model that should apply to the areas that are challenged. For the vast majority of municipalities and the vast majority of colleges are not challenged by this problem. So whether it is a model that fits everything or whether it is a model that should focus on particular areas, we are very open to discussing. In any case, we are open to discussing anything that can resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133845	I am delighted, because I think it is important that this debate should come to an end in such a way that it is not just noted that there is no majority in favour of anything. Because then we have a huge problem. That is why I think I would just like to welcome the fact that this is the case, and I would say that I see it as a commitment that it is possible to have a dialogue among all the parties that have advocated that a district model could be found. Then I see that the rapporteur is saying: yes, in the future distribution system we must include both the commercial colleges and the technical colleges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133927	I will look forward to discussing it here in the future, including with the Enhedslisten, and I hope that the government too will want to discuss it here, so that it could be a broad majority in the Folketing, who agreed to find perhaps not one model, but several different approaches that could remedy the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133948	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126133951	I am so pleased that the Radical Left rapporteur in the field of education has understood what disaster has struck Denmark that integration problems are massive and cannot simply be solved. I am incredibly pleased that Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen has understood this, and she must, of course, have understood that the party is very, very much to blame. I hope that Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen wishes to remedy the problems in the future, and that is why I would like to ask Mrs Borst Hansen if she would address the rapporteur on the Radical Left in the field of foreigners and ask him to pursue a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, so that the problem we are facing now in the field of high school will not be enlarged into the future. Then I would like to thank the Radical Left rapporteur for having sensed this problem now that the problem also affects the better-off sections of the Danish population and not just those who live in social housing in the less economically prosperous areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134113	In the Radical Left, we take responsibility, and so do we for foreign policy. It is not the same as that we mean the same as the Danish People's Party on foreigners and integration. But I have discussed this proposal. That is not my proposal. Firstly, it is one that we have put forward together in three parties, and secondly, it is a proposal that we have discussed in the radical group. And, of course, it is a united radical group behind this proposal, and hence also the radical rapporteur for foreigners and integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134153	What I would like Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen to do, of course, is to make clear to the rest of the Radical Left's parliamentary group how big a problem it is that we have to deal with here, like all sorts of other places in society, and then get the Radical Left to pursue an alien policy that ensures that this problem does not grow in the future. This means that we must pursue a firm policy on foreigners, in which we do not get more foreigners to Denmark, who, through the great cultural differences that exist, are creating insoluble problems around the Danish community • a strict immigration policy that ensures that no more people come to Denmark from those areas where we know from experience that people cannot integrate. That is what I am asking Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen to do, after she has clearly grasped the point herself, that this is a very, very big problem. So I ask again: will Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen explain it to the rest of the Radical Left's parliamentary group and ensure that the Radical Left saddles itself with foreign policy so that we do not have a magnification of the problem in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134303	In the Radical Left, we would very much like to create the framework for those who want to be allowed to do so. This means that if you are a foreigner and want to work and want to pay taxes in Denmark, you must be allowed to do so. If you are a foreigner and want to go to high school, want to go to high school parties, want to participate in sports activities, want to participate in an ordinary Danish youth life, then you must be allowed and allowed to do so. It is vital that young people are given the opportunity to do so, precisely so that we do not have a parallel society. In order for us not to have a prime minister in ten years' time who will have to spend the whole of his New Year speech on talking about parallel societies, we will have to break down these parallel societies. And we only do that by meeting and living together. Therefore, we are not just happy with this proposal, but would like to look at even more proposals that can help our young people to meet and live together in a youth life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134415	Thank you very much to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. There are no more comments in this round. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134424	Thank you for that and thank you for an exciting debate so far on education policy, integration and in-between. In fact, I would like to start by starting from something that Mr. Henrik Dahl said. Very often, I am inspired by Mr. Henrik Dahl and his funny and clever analyses, but here I actually think that Mr. Henrik Dahl misses much with the sentence: There is a large part of the students who want to take freedom from others. I think that is a great deal to miss, and I think this debate is getting off the wrong track, because this debate is not about a large part of the students wanting to take away freedom from others. It is my impression that neither High-Taastrup Gymnasium nor Hvidovre Gymnasium nor Langkaer Gymnasium are necessarily a lot of students who, just because they are of other ethnic background, will take freedom from others. There are undoubtedly problems with social control around which we have to solve, but that is not what this is about. A lot of those who go to the High-Taastrup Gymnasium and have other ethnic background are cute young people, I'd say, who don't want to hurt a fly, and who just want to be good comrades. What this is all about is getting students scattered, so students meet each other across. I'm a fox-red socialist. I think you have to meet each other, no matter what kind of society you come from, no matter how much you earn or how little you earn, no matter what you believe in or do not believe in. With what is happening today, people don't meet across the board to the same extent. It's not just the students with other ethnic backgrounds to blame. It is of course a problem if pupils with other ethnic backgrounds clash together, and there is a tendency to do so, but there is also a tendency for pupils who have parents who are Danish and grandparents who are Danish to cross borders and go to other high schools. So it's all that crams together, and it's the result of the system that we have today, and we have to change that, because I'm afraid of parallel societies, not so to understand that I'm afraid, but that I'm afraid of what it does to our society. I think it is a bad thing if we have a high school where all the students are well-haven children, and we have a high school where all children believe in one god, and another high school where all children believe in another god. I believe that we have an obligation for children to meet across different walks of life, and I believe that what is the result of free choice of schools weakens integration. I believe that it weakens integration when children do not meet across and young people do not meet across. Now Mr. Henrik Dahl, you can't prove that, but I think it's pretty obvious. In order to understand each other, we also need to meet, and I am worried about the children and young people, such as myself. can grow up in a home in a exposed residential area and then come to a school where they go to a class where a large part of the students also have a different ethnic background, or maybe they even go to a Muslim free school. When they are finished with primary school or free school, they return home in the residential area, and one hoped that when they went to youth education, that was where they were going to meet across, but now we also have upper secondary education, where you don't meet across, so there they can continue to live in the same little bubble. We need to break up those bubbles so people meet across. Nor do I share the analysis that only one party is responsible for integration. Therefore, it is not only one of the student groups that has to move. I never meant that, either in the field of primary and secondary education. Quitting free school elections will mean that all children, both those with different ethnic backgrounds and those who have families who have always lived in Denmark, will move because we all have a responsibility to meet each other. This proposal for a new distribution of pupils is based on the fact that we have mixed student masses at all high schools in Denmark. I agree with Mrs Borst Hansen when the rapporteur has such a very open approach. It's not certain that everything in this is exactly the best model. I therefore agree with some of the comments that have been made. This is not an isolated problem only in high schools or in youth education. It is also a problem in the public schools or in the residential areas, so let us work on it. In relation to the criterion and ethnicity, it is in human rights that, if it is in order to ensure good integration, it is possible to make steps to ensure good integration. That is, for example, the case. What has done is not to create Muslim free schools in Norway, and not to say that I think this is the best model. I have just said that there is, in fact, a criterion that takes account of ensuring good integration. Then to the Enhedslisten, who asked the radical rapporteur whether he would be involved in working to create school districts. I just want to say, yes, I would like to. In fact, I believe that part of the youth that I am a part of has bought too much into the whole of the marketing of our education sector and that you just see free choice of school as unproblematic and a necessity and a completely natural thing. The free choice of schools has many negative consequences, and I would think it was wonderful if some people interfered in the debate and ended free school elections in an appropriate way. So I would very much like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134941	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126134945	I'm glad. It has become apparent that we find it very problematic that ethnicity is the sole starting point. It can be said that, as the debate has fallen, this is not the case either, because there is simply no majority in favour of it. So I'm glad there's room to find other models. Then perhaps I just have the individual question whether the SF does not think it would be interesting that the parties that have now tabled the proposal today and the parties that have clearly indicated that there is a need to do away with free elections in some form or another, sit down and see if you can find a common bid for it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135031	I can at least promise that my party would like to sit down with others for such a model, I would like to say as we wait, because the problem is, in fact, that we have been waiting and waiting for a government that has been saying for a long time back from 2016 that now there will be a model or a discussion about a model. And we have always believed that we would all be called to discuss it, including the Enhedslisten. So I would very much like to continue working on a model, but it also depends a little on how realistic it is to get it through and on what the government is about to do and whether it will take action soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135108	The questioner? No, so thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. And welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135117	Thank you. I will start by acknowledging that there is a problem here. This is a huge problem for integration with schools, where many pupils with other ethnic backgrounds are lumped together. That is why I also welcome the proposals of the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Radicals. This shows that there is broad support here for resolving a situation that is unsustainable. Students must respect high school as an educational institution based on Western values, and we need to address those problems to ensure integration. This isn't easy to solve, because we would have done it a long time ago. However, when we cannot support the resolution here, it is because we cannot see how the pupil-sharing mechanisms will work in practice. We do not see what role it will have in relation to the role of the distribution committee, the freedom of choice of pupils and the economy of the institutions. In addition, the amendment of the rules governing pupils must be implemented within the framework of international obligations, including the prohibition of discrimination. It is a complex matter which requires a solution, which is why it is also good that the government is working on a proposal to deal with the problem of cultural clashes at educational institutions. I look forward to seeing and discussing this proposal with the other parties. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135300	Thank you for that, there are no brief remarks. That brings us to today's last-named Honourable Speaker, Mrs Annette Lind, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135312	Thanks for the fine presentation. I think we should remind each other that it is actually a success story that we are discussing and nothing negative. There are a lot of young people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish who start going to high school. I think that is good news, and I think that we should also discuss that as a positive thing. In 2016, 13 out of 290 Danish high schools had a predominance of students of different origins from Danish, and they did, because more and more young people are looking for high schools, where the majority are similar to themselves. They cannot be blamed for this, but as a society we have a responsibility to ensure that the division between the population groups does not become too large. We see an increasing tendency for parallel societies and deeper gaps to be created, almost wherever we look. It is in residential areas, in folk schools and in youth education. And, of course, things are connected. Decades of failed housing and integration policies have meant that we have still not done away with the ghettos. There is something that suggests that this has long meant that there are major challenges in our day care institutions and schools, but it also now appears in our high schools. Social democracy wants to combat the fragmentation and parallel societies that are becoming stronger. We will therefore insist that we live, live and go to school together across social, cultural and ethnic divides, for that is the whole foundation of our welfare society, which is why we are also concerned that the government is merely passively looking at the challenges of our high schools. They do so in the big cities, but they do so now in several provincial towns. Today they are high schools in many different places, where most people have a different ethnic background.The minister mentioned 15 high schools at the same time as you have high schools almost right next door, which have far more pupils with Danish roots. It is a development that is going really, really fast these years, and we fear that if we do not do something now, then it can be very, very difficult to reverse that trend. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution before us today, the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the SF. It is a proposal that changes the rules governing the distribution of pupils in high schools. On the recommendation of the Regional Council, the Minister shall be able to decide to require the local distribution committees to apply a principle that the proportion of pupils with a foreign background may not, as a rule, exceed 30%. in a new vintage. This will mean, in the long term, that some pupils will not have their first priority wish met, and that is a consequence that we would actually like to look at with our eyes open. Firstly, we believe that education is about more than knowledge and skills. It is also about the formation and understanding of the society of which you are a part. And that is why it is pointless to isolate oneself as a group in different schools. Secondly, it aims to be able to choose the upper secondary school which is actually closest to it. Today, very many young people opt out of the local high school and go further away because they do not want to be in the minority. This applies both to young people with a Danish background and to young people with a different ethnic background. If we succeed in creating a more mixed distribution of pupils in all high schools, then it will no longer be necessary to get away from the high school that you still live closest to. Our proposal is not about the fact that it is the individual student with a different ethnic background who is a problem, on the contrary. It is the division between the population groups that is the problem, and it affects both the pupil with blonde hair and the pupil with dark hair. And we must not accept that a fragmented education system is allowed to take root. We have to go to school together and meet across, so we create trust and cohesion. And that is how we ensure that education also becomes general education. With new distribution rules in the field of high school, we do not solve all problems, far from it. I think we have all realised that in today's debate. The fight against parallel societies is in almost all areas. We must ensure that children with other ethnic backgrounds come to Danish crèches and kindergartens; we must ensure a better distribution of pupils in primary schools; and we must provide a leisure life where everyone can participate. And we must take much more active action to create mixed residential areas. Just because it is difficult and complex, as has been said today, should not be an excuse for us not doing anything. For nearly two years, the government has promised to do something about the problem. We've been pushing, but we haven't got a student distribution in high school yet. We believe that principles of distribution should be introduced. We need to take much more control in this area. We have pressed for meetings, for real negotiations, and yet we are standing here a very long time after the first conciliation in 2016. By the resolution here we mean that we are making a bid for a solution, not a solution one. This is an outstretched hand for the government once again. We want to help offer a solution. We would really like to help solve this for all those who are crying for a solution. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that we cannot wait any longer. Now is simply the time for action. As my colleague said, it is five minutes to twelve.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135852	Thank you. No one else wants to enrich the debate, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180126135913	Then I must inform you that, by mistake at the beginning of today's sitting, it was announced that a member of the Folketing, Mr. Martin Henriksen from Dansk Folkeparti etc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B-22 back. As I said, this was a mistake and the motion for a resolution has not therefore lapsed. The proposal will come to the second and last reading on Tuesday, 30 January 2018. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. All that remains is to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 30 January 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
