ParlaMint-DK_20181207100020	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Rasmu Nordqvist (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a levy on meat of ruminants). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the taxation of pencil money). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 60 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on aid for the relief of parents of children with disabilities during short stays abroad). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the change of state reimbursement of municipal public service expenditure), motion for a resolution No. Β 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the change of tax credit for quotas for trade unions) and motion for a resolution No. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the dissemination of bourgeois govern ment budgets). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Julius Graakjær Grantzau (ALT): Request no. F 23 (About the effects of advertising on children and adolescents). Karina Due (DF) and others: Question No. F 24 (on prison sentences in cases of animal cruelty). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100141	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100206	Thank you for the opportunity to have a discussion on this issue, which is about stricter requirements for inclusion in the RUT register. I would like to start by saying that for me and the government it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark can get the labour we need, also in the form of foreign companies coming to Denmark. However, I would also like to make it clear that there should be no doubt that everyone should follow the rules of the Danish labour market, both Danish and foreign companies. In relation to Danish companies, the authorities have extensive information to be able to carry out checks and inspections. RUT is an important instrument for safeguarding the good aspects of the European Union's internal market, on which I myself, in any case, am very much in favour. In relation to foreign companies, the RUT register is essential for the authorities to have the necessary information so that we can catch, if we can say so, those companies that do not want to comply with the rules we have here in Denmark. Similarly, the RUT register is a necessary source of information for the social partners so that they can carry out their tasks in accordance with the Danish labour market model, and therefore it is important for the government that the RUT register is a robust but also effective tool. We in the government are generally in favour of further developing the RUT register so that it becomes an even better tool in ensuring orderly conditions in the Danish labour market. We have also proved this on several occasions, and most recently with the introduction of the possibility that the Danish Labour Inspectorate may issue an immediate injunction to a company to register with the RUT register. In the end, the Factory Inspectorate may impose administrative periodic penalty payments on the company if the company persistently refuses to notify itself. After all, the penalty instrument was part of the 2018 Finance Act, which the government entered into with the Danish People's Party. It also shows that we in the government are helping to find new ways of strengthening the register, and that is why I do have sympathy for the purpose that the Danish People's Party will address with this motion for a resolution. However, we also want to safeguard the RUT register as the valuable tool it is and that is why the government wants us not to undermine the register with the amendments that go against EU law. It is also important to make it clear that we do not want it now in a situation where Denmark received a letter of formal notice on 9 November on the notification obligation for RUT for self-employed workers without employees. The Commission is challenging the part of the RUT register relating to the obligation to notify self-employed persons without employees, and it is important for me to stress today that the Commission does not question RUT as such, but only the rules on the obligation to notify self-employed persons without employees. However, I do not think that what we need now is a debate in which, if we follow the resolution, we will change the RUT register, especially in this situation where we need to have a dialogue with the Commission in relation to their letter of formal notice. A legal requirement for the payment of an administrative fee and a deposit would constitute an illegal discrimination against foreign service providers under EU law and would also be a restriction on the free movement of service providers, and that is something I have replied to, but also my predecessor in the post of Minister for Employment, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, has previously indicated this in an answer. In other words, such new requirements could be water at the mill of the Commission that the RUT register does not comply with EU law, and this could also put us at a disadvantage in the dialogue with the European Commission on the organisation of the current register. So while I am sympathetic to the extension of the RUT register, I must also conclude that this proposal goes too far and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100613	Thank you, Minister. There's a comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100618	Thank you, President. The Minister clearly says that the government cannot support the proposal, that is to say that it goes too far in relation to EU law and all that. It is possible that the Minister is of that opinion, but it is not something that undermines the functioning of the RUT register. Because this means a deposit that makes the government, the state, sure to get money for fines that have been given. And if employers abide by all the rules, they get the deposit back. It must also be reasonable to pay the costs that are being registered in the RUT register. Danish employers already pay for all things in the world to be allowed to work. Among other things, they must: also pay for it, if they do not take in trainees, but foreign service providers should not. So isn't it completely misleading to say that this undermines the RUT register? Another point raised by the Minister was that of the European Union. Now I have a few articles on the EU attacking the RUT register. This means that foreign service providers and sole proprietors should not be registered anywhere at all. They are just free to travel across the border and work in Denmark without any control whatsoever. I know that the Minister will, of course, work against it, but when you can read an article from among others. Everything and the newspaper.dk that the EU wants to remove the registration obligation of sole proprietors, it is quite wrong. Then you open up a large barn gate and say that now you can just go into Denmark and work without any control whatsoever. The Danish People's Party wants there to be control over those who come and work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100755	In relation to the last part of Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question, of course, says many things on Altinget and the newspaper.dk. It is not all that is necessarily one hundred percent correct. But what is at least important for me to make clear is that, as I said, we have now received a letter of formal notice. There we will have a dialogue with the Commission, and for the government I would like to make that clear, it is absolutely crucial that the RUT register can have a way of working, which ensures that we can also be sure that there are both the arrangements, but also some of the other elements that the RUT register takes into account. So says Mr. Bent Bøgsted also said that he basically disagrees or does not think that what I am saying here is right in relation to the question of whether it is contrary to EU law. However, I would like to point out that during this committee procedure we can also look at how and how we are going to get deeper into this issue in relation to further development of the RUT register, because I do not have any ambition that the RUT register should not be as robust as possible. So that is what I hope the committee procedure can also be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100906	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100907	Thank you. It's good to have a closer look. But what will the Minister do if what can be read about at Altinget and the newspaper.dk is believed, that is, that the EU will remove the requirement for sole proprietors to be reported in the RUT register? It will open up thousands of single-person companies that are just free to travel across the border and offer their labour force without any control. We don't know where they're in the country or anything, and what they're working with. They're just free to leave, and if they're stopped, they can say that I'm a one-man business, and I'm not going to register for the RUT register. Does the Minister not find it strange that we should just have the approach to the Danish labour market that we are trying to protect?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100944	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207100946	Well, I can say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, that in these weeks I am fighting a hard fight to get a meeting with the responsible European Commissioner, who is responsible for the letter of formal notice. It is a Polish Commissioner, Pieńkowska. And as things stand right now, I believe that a meeting will be held at the beginning of the new year, because of course I have a large number of questions that I will discuss with Pieńkowska in relation to the letter of formal notice. I can guarantee that I will not lie down flat and say that I am just prepared to follow what the Commission might think. I would like to have a professional discussion with the Commission on what they might write.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101025	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Perhaps you could turn it around and say that if there is now such a Commissioner sitting in the debate here and having it translated from Danish to some language that he is now speaking, then he thinks that that minister is probably one of those who is going down flat right away. With a small innocent and very reasonable proposal, which I have not really heard the Minister speak against the content of, the Minister rushes up and says: 'Oh, no, we must not do that for the European Union, so we should put it back in the drawer. So the question is whether this is the right strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101108	Now it's not just something I've invented for the occasion. There was also a former Social Democrat and a great deal can be accused of me, but I am not in this way categorized as a Social Democrat yet, in any case, Mr President. Henrik Dam Kristensen, who as Social Democratic Minister for Employment gave the Danish Parliament this answer. And it is not the case that the Ministry of Justice or, for that matter, the Ministry of Employment has just, if it were to be said, a new interpretation of EU law because there is another government. After all, it is not the case that when you change government, you also change administration, as in the United States, and I think we should be happy about that. So we are quite in agreement with the assessment given by Henrik Dam Kristensen. Nor is there anything strange about the fact that the Ministry of Employment agrees with itself on something they have answered before. It would probably be very strange if the reverse were the case. But I'm not the kind of guy who just lays down and says yes. And for the record, it's not a male we're talking about, Pieńkowska is a woman. It is more just that, if you follow the debate here, I need to say that she is a woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101205	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101206	Thank you and, of course, I am sorry to the Commissioner, who is probably sitting by. It's a really bad start, but I don't want to be blamed for everything going wrong. Of course, I'm sorry. I can then note and note that it is not just the case that officials are changed; I fully understand that principle; I am actually in favour of it, but neither is politics changed nor attitudes changed, even if there is a new minister, because that is the same approach, whether it is a Left Minister or a Socialist Minister, just the EU says boo to us, yes, they don't even have to. So much censorship is made in advance that one does not even dare to adopt a proposal and then discuss it with the Commission. I think that's a real shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101252	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101253	I think that on many points I have in fact varied what the Left has meant in other areas too, so that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen came there, I consider a hostile remark. However, in relation to this question, it is not the case that we change the legal assessment because there will be a new government, but there may of course be an opportunity to discuss some of these things with the Commission. That is also why I myself asked for a meeting with Pieńkowska, because I think we should have a political discussion about what lies behind the letter of formal notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101323	Thank you. And then we begin the series of rapporteurs with Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101334	I do not know whether the Minister boasted that he was a Social Democrat, but at least now there is someone here in the Chair who is a little more socialist or a real social democrat, depending on how you look at it. As far as this matter is concerned, there should be no doubt whatsoever that the Social Democratic Party will safeguard the Danish labour market and the Danish conditions we have in these jobs. In other words, the Danish labour market model, which we are all very proud of for good reason. Nor do I doubt for a second that these are the conditions we have in the labour market, the Danish model, which makes us in the big world as strong as we do. We often hear that, even when we in the committee are visiting the rest of the world, so that they actually envy us the Danish model. However, our labour market is also in many ways threatened. I think we all know that, and there are foreign companies that try to come here every year and let their employees work under some pay and working conditions that we do not want to take part in at all. It is companies that do not want to comply with the legislation either. We cannot do this, and we must and must fight it at all times. That is why we have also made this register, which we are talking about today, to ensure that we know that these companies are in the country, when they are in the country, and that we can control them and also catch those bandits who are not behaved properly in our laws. I would therefore also like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking this debate because I think it is a very important debate. And also because we all know that things aren't going the way they are, compared to this part. The fact that there are still too many people who are not registered, and many who do not pay their fines before they run away again, is a major problem which the Danish People's Party also describes in their motion for a resolution. That is why I certainly have a great deal of sympathy for this proposal and this debate. However, as the Minister has said, it is also our assumption that we are going against EU law, because we must not discriminate, and that is why we have to vote against it. Having said that, I believe that we should always go straight to the limit of EU law and ensure that the RUT register is as strong a tool as possible and that we always have to challenge that part. Because we must safeguard our labour market. Before the summer break, the Social Democratic Party obtained a majority in this Chamber to make bigger daily fines, and it should not be kept secret that we would also like to see the companies that cheat even higher fines and that we also make sure that they do not do so again; that we hunt them even more. So in those words I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for the debate. I have no doubt that far along the way we agree that proper working conditions must be ensured around the Danish model. And then we'll see how far we agree with this part.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101624	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101627	Thank you. Well, that just confirms what I said before, namely that when it comes to relations with the European Union and EU law and to lie flat on its belly, there is no difference between a Social Democrat minister and a Left Minister. I am also guessing that there is no difference between a Socialist rapporteur and a Left rapporteur. That's kind of my point. Then the rapporteur says that we must go straight to the limit. Yeah, that's fine, but no one knows where the border is in this case. I am aware that there has not been a verdict on exactly such a proposal. So if you want to go to the border, first you have to find out where it is. This is done by adopting what you think is right and then taking the discussion with the Commission and possibly the European Court of Justice afterwards. Then you can take cutlery of how much you want to buckle the bow when we get that far. But if you don't take the first step, you'll never know where the border is. Then you get this self-censorship that comes into force as soon as just a tiny proposal is put forward that some might imagine would affect EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101744	It is, of course, the case with politics and with the various parties that there is a time when we Social Democrats are most in agreement with the Left. Then there are also many, many other things where we most agree with Enhedslisten. It's always gonna be that way. However, just as far as the European Union is concerned, we are probably more in agreement with the Left than we are with the Enhedslisten. The thing about saying you lie down flat is completely wrong. Of course we don't lie down flat. You can hear the minister here, who says that when such a letter of formal notice comes, he does everything he can and the former Minister Henrik Dam Kristensen did so too to make sure that we can maintain a good Danish labour market with the conditions we now have. That's why we always have to fight back when it comes to things like that. And we always have to go straight to the limit. We can, of course, examine this during the committee procedure, but I have the impression that it would constitute illegal discrimination against foreign service providers. This is one of the things that should not be done in relation to EU law. And you just have to challenge that. We can then ask about this during the committee procedure, so that we can see if that is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101846	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101849	Thank you. But I think I can hear from the Minister that we have received the answer to that, because reference is made to the answer that we received from Mr Van der Klaauw. Henrik Dam Kristensen a few years ago. And it is absolutely right that officials should consider that this is contrary to EU law. And we have to listen to that. And if we want to act differently, as it were, than they recommend, then of course we must take political responsibility for it. I totally agree with that. However, it is the members of the Folketing who decide which conclusions should be drawn. And there I just think that the argument I have received so far confirms my view that there is so much self-censorship that we will never find out where the border is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207101940	It can't be any more wrong, because I actually think we are. However, it is clear that when I can see such an answer from two different ministers, I also have to say that if this means that we are going against EU law, then I cannot do so, because I actually believe it is an advantage that we are in the European Union. But I'm also sending some signals here. It's just that it seems like sir. Finn Sørensen doesn't listen at all. I am sending out some signals that we must do everything we can to combat the fact that some people are coming up here who are cheating on the weight. And we must do everything we can to maintain a strong RUT register.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102006	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102009	Thank you, President. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says we have to go straight to the border. So where's the limit? I ask, like Mr. Finn Sørensen. Well, if social democracy doesn't want to test where the border is, we'll never find out where it is. No one in the European Union has yet said that this is contrary to EU law. It may well be that there are some lawyers at home who say that it is probably contrary to EU law that it is probably right on the edge and all that, but let us then test where the edge goes, I would say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Let's see what they say if we pass this. I do not see that it would be contrary to the free movement of workers to deposit a deposit which will be returned once work has been carried out if the Danish rules are otherwise complied with. If you don't abide by the rules, you get a fine, and then you're sure the state gets the money. Taking a payment to administer a scheme is not against EU law, is it? It's not as far as I know. No one in EU law has said that Danish employers do not have to pay for any schemes they fall under here. It is only here in connection with the RUT register that they say: No, they must not pay, they must have free access. Isn't that completely misleading?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102120	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102121	What I hear is said is that when you discriminate against foreign service providers, you go against EU law, and I choose to believe that is true, and that is what I am trying to say with these opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102134	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102135	Thank you. But if what we can read at Altinget.dk and Avisen.dk, that there is no control of sole proprietorships, then believers, and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen accepts that he is told by the minister that he can just lie down flat, that there is nothing to come after, because the EU Commissioner says that it does not go, we remove it, then we have thousands of workers coming to Denmark and saying that they are sole proprietors. We have no idea where they are, but we do, in case we insist that they should be reported in the RUT register. I guess it's fair that we know where the labour force is. A notification in the RUT register shall not prevent the free movement of goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102213	I think most people who know me, including the minister who is in the corner, will know that if he asks me to lie down flat, that will be the last thing that will happen. I think most people know that. But I just have to say that I know that the Minister takes this letter of formal notice very seriously. He must also, and we fully support that, and, of course, we must also, with the Minister in the lead, take up the Commissioner in order to ensure that we can preserve the conditions we have and, as I say, make sure we have even higher fines to ensure that these people and companies also pay for what they have to pay for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102249	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102256	Thank you. Let me start by stressing that the Left is fully in favour of the RUT register. We are of the opinion that if you come to Denmark and work, you should do so on Danish terms. If we allowed anything else, it would lead to unfair competition against both companies and employees. We cannot and will not accept this, and that is why we support the RUT register. The RUT register is a crucial tool for ensuring proper conditions. The Directory allows authorities to ensure that Danish legislation is complied with and that the social partners can fulfil their tasks. In this way we ensure together that foreign labour is here on terms that are consistent with those we see on the Danish labour market in general. This is among other things. That is why, back in May, we tightened the rules on sanctions, ensuring that the financial penalty by not entering the RUT register has been significantly increased. That is why we basically believe that the proposal has good intentions, but misses the mark of its exports, because we insist that we all have to have strong and free movement in Europe, and the proposal will reduce it. We see overall foreign labour as an economic gain and the proposal will reduce this gain. The current system remains within the framework of EU law and it is estimated that the proposal in question will not harm the proposal, not least because it penalises those who register rather than those who do not. So, although the Left basically finds the proposal sympathetic and shares its intentions, we cannot vote for it in its present form. In these words, the Left intends to vote against the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102453	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102454	Thank you. Well, then there was a slight difference, which is not entirely unimportant, between the way the Socialist rapporteur argued and the way the rapporteur of the Left argues. I'm just gonna give it an extra twist. Can the rapporteur not try to decide whether he thinks that this is a good proposal in terms of content? And let us ignore the fact that it will not then be adopted, and things and matters, or the consequences, if it were, and all that. The rapporteur says this one moment, but the next moment he says: no, it is contrary to freedom of movement, and we do not want that, because then we will miss out on a gain. Well, I guess you can't mean both. So what does the rapporteur think: is this a good proposal or a bad one?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102537	As I said, it is of course about the intentions that have been put forward. The Left shares the intention in the motion for a resolution that when you come here and work, you must abide by the rules. There are rules in the RUT register that must be respected, and we believe that they must be respected when you come here to contribute. I read that the Danish People's Party basically also has a positive approach to the RUT register. You then want to go further, and that is where the Left says: we cannot, because it will not be in accordance with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102625	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102626	Yes, that is the argument used by the Minister, but the rapporteur was just out in a slightly different argument that this was against the rules of free movement and that it would make Denmark miss out on a gain. So that is an attitudeist criticism of the proposal, which does not rhyme with what the rapporteur otherwise says. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks it is a good or a bad proposal, and then I can easily follow the rapporteur's view that he will not be involved in adopting it, because we should not challenge EU law and all sorts of things. But is that a good proposal or a bad one? That's kind of what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102706	We share the intention that when you come to Denmark and want to contribute your labour, you have to play according to the rules, and we have constantly changed the rules on how to register in RUT and what rules you have to comply with in general. That is what is now part of the discussion. So I would like to say that I see in this way that the Left and the Danish People's Party are on the line. There are some rules you have to abide by when you come to Denmark. We in the Left therefore have the approach that we think there should be some more here. We do not quite share that view with the Danish People's Party, but I think we agree that when you come to Denmark, there are rules you have to observe, and there is also a consequence if you do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102755	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102757	You get a little confused once in a while when you hear mr. Hans Andersen. Sir. Hans Andersen says that the Left supports the RUT register, and there is no doubt that I understand that. But then Mr. Hans Andersen nevertheless, that if you support this proposal, it is a discrimination between those who sign up for the RUT register, and then those who do not sign up for the RUT register. Well, don't we have a law that every foreign service provider should sign up for the RUT registry? How, then, can this be discrimination? There shouldn't quite be someone who doesn't sign up unless mr. Hans Andersen has already advanced the fact that the EU says: You don't have to sign up for the RUT register. At any rate, as the articles show, sole proprietors who undercut Danish labour to 80 DKK. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. But where is the discrimination between those who sign up and those who do not sign up? For all foreign service providers must register.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102903	Discrimination is about fair and equal competition for those who come here and work, and then those who are already here. And if you start making tight demands, so that there is a real barrier to getting here and working in Denmark compared to those who are already here, then it is a discrimination. What I mentioned was that we have to remember that we have to make rules in the RUT that make you sign up and abide by the rules, and then we have to come after those who do not. And these are the ones I'm concerned about getting hold of and making sure they're not here in Denmark. I also hope that the Danish People's Party shares that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102952	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207102953	I do not really see that there should be any discrimination, in other words that it should prevent access. For let us now say that it is a proper craft company that is in charge of its business and complies with the Danish rules, and then they will have to pay a deposit of DKK 20,000 which they will receive again if they comply with Danish rules. Well, I do not see that it should be an obstacle to coming to Denmark and working. I hope that it is not some companies that are a little shady and say: we do not have just 20,000 kroner. to pay in deposit. I hope that these are decent craft companies coming to Denmark. I guess that's what we're looking for. I guess it's not gonna be the kind of people who outlaw the Danish labour market unless it is, sir. Hans Andersen wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103037	I certainly don't want that. And I also hope that those who come to Denmark are decent companies that want to contribute and comply with the rules of the game. And we are also concerned about that is what we need to achieve with the RUT register. But you just have to be able to discuss whether putting up a barrier that says that before you have even earned a penny in Denmark, you have to pay 20,000 kroner. in a deposit, is not tightening it. I think that is to tighten it, that is to say, in relation to being said: We believe, from the outset, that you cheat and will exceed the rules, and therefore you must deposit a deposit. I do not think this is in line with the framework and conditions that we are working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103122	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103136	Thank you. It might be worth saying what the proposal is really about. It's about two things. One is that the Dansk Folkeparti proposes that foreign companies are companies, and not individual workers are required to pay a fee to cover the costs of the RUT register in connection with registration for it. That's one thing. The second point is that foreign service providers, i.e. companies, are subject to a deposit of DKK 20,000. by registering, and they can then get it back unless they have incurred a debt to Danish society, for example. in the form of a fine. It is a very modest, simple and easy-to-understand and reasonable proposal. I should not be surprised if the European Court of Justice could come to the conclusion that such a thing is an obstacle to free movement. If it can find ways of interfering with the Swedish construction workers' right to strike, they can also find ways of intervening in such a thing. Nothing is too small for the European Court of Justice. However, I think that there is a bit of a rush to bow down to the fear that the European Court of Justice considers this to be contrary to freedom of movement. They say it's discrimination. How is this discrimination? So, Danish companies should not register in RUT, and that is for good reasons. There are some Danish registers they must register in, so they are also subject to a registration obligation. Of course, Danish companies do not have to register in RUT, so I would say that if the European Commission recognises the RUT register and it has done so then we cannot come and talk about discrimination because we want to improve the framework for this RUT register. Then you also have to look at the advantages of competition. It is, of course, the case that foreign seconding companies, and these are the ones we are talking about, that is to say service providers from other EU and EEA countries operating in this country, have a huge competitive advantage. They do not pay taxes to Danish society. They do not pay the same fees for running their business as Danish companies pay. Should it be so awful that they were charged a small fee for the administrative task of registering and processing their registration and checking whether they comply with laws and regulations? It was worth trying to argue with the European Court of Justice in those areas instead of just laying down flat in advance. So Enhedslisten supports this proposal as it stands. We would like to see that deposit increased a little, because there are not many daily charges to avoid compliance with instructions from the Labour Inspectorate until that amount has been eaten up. But let's just leave it alone. I can see that will be totally insurmountable for the majority of the rapporteurs in here to relate to at all, and that is very regrettable. I really think you should think about what kind of strategy you have in relation to that system down there. I am well aware that there are different views on the European Union and that we basically have some disagreements on that. However, we agree that we must protect the Danish labour market from social dumping. And we agree that there are a lot of absurdities in the EU's rules on free movement. After all, we need to tighten up a little, tighten up the belt and shoot out the chest and go out openly in criticism of it, and that we also sometimes try to try the boundaries of instead of this very clear trend, which has already been shown on the platform of the bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats. In other words, one is so panicky that the Commission has to come and scold us for something and one can lose a case before the European Court of Justice that one imposes a violent self-censorship on oneself that makes even such modest, cautious proposals as this one dare not even adopt and then take up the fight for it. I think that's really, really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103540	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103544	First of all, thank you for your support, sir. Finn Sørensen. I just want to ask you something. Isn't it a little strange when you're talking about the EU? Finn Sørensen himself mentioned fear of the Commission and then it is said by the rapporteur that we are going straight to the border, that we will not test where the border lies? You trust that when that's said, we probably can't. As Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned that the only way to find the border is to test it against the European Union. However, it is no wonder that the rapporteurs who have been up so far at least, with the exception of Mr Beyer de Ryke, have been up until now. Finn Sørensen, will not take the risk or the chance and say: Now we are testing where the limit is, once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103631	Well, I think that is really a pity, and especially because, on this very specific issue, with the proposal that it is formulated here, we do not know where the limit goes. If there had been any judgment before the Court of Justice which had ruled that this should not be done, I am quite sure that the officials of the Ministry of Justice would have told us that, and it would have been included in the reply from Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, who was previously given about this problem. So no one can come and say that this is the limit. I don't blame the officials of the Ministry of Justice for being careful, that's what they get paid for. But it is not our job as politicians to be careful. If we have a point that we believe to be vital to Denmark, then we must challenge EU rules. But it's clear that if you're afraid of it, we'll never find out where the border is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103727	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207103737	Thank you for that, President. After all, we benefit very much from EU labour force in Denmark and we benefit from the single market in general, and we do, of course, because we are an open economy, as is often said, of quite a limited size. This makes us dependent on free trade in the European Union. However, as the EU has expanded, it is also clear that we need to look at the Danish labour market and the way it works, i.e. the Danish model and the social conditions that are generally in this country. The workers who come to Denmark often come from countries which do not have the same pay and working conditions as we do in Denmark. Of course, there is a balance to be struck, and there is, of course, the fact that the European Union and labour market policy can be said to a large extent that this is the eternal tragedy here. But we're kind of feeling good in this area. Foreigners work on contractual matters to a similar degree to Danes, and they earn roughly the same as Danes in similar positions; so the major general problems cannot be talked about. But that is, of course, undermining the confidence we can have in the whole principle of the free movement of workers, when that is why we have the register for foreign service providers. However, the proposal to require foreign providers of services which finance the RUT register to provide a security of DKK 20.000 is not proportionate. This is probably not in line with the agreements we have signed with the European Union. The prerequisite for free trade and free movement is, of course, that individual countries do not impose technical barriers to trade, and the amount proposed is so high that it is certainly a technical barrier to trade. In relation to the question of user charges, of course, it hurts me a little, because we in LA really like user charges in general. It is all very well to co-finance public services that you benefit from, but when it comes to this kind of authority, we do not think that user payments are the right way to go. An entity that does what it has to do shall not be liable to additional costs. It would be unreasonable to put them worse than Danish companies. So we think that we have a good balance between opposing considerations, and we believe that the proposal will upset that and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104043	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104047	Thank you. Of course, the Liberal Alliance must be commended for the clear consequence of their policy, namely that user charges are something that is imposed on ordinary employees and taxpayers, and I think that is something that I would like to impose on people in relation to the Danish welfare system, but employers should certainly not be charged any kind of user charges. I just spoke to say that it is wrong for the rapporteur to stand on the platform and say that foreign workers receive the same pay as their Danish colleagues. At the end of May this year, the FAOS, the Research Centre for Labour Market and Organisation Studies, came with a large report showing that the wages of Eastern workers in Denmark are on average 27 per cent. lower than the salary of their Danish colleagues, even when the different nationalities work in the same sector and have largely the same jobs. So I would just ask the rapporteur to admit that he said something that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104157	First of all, we are always pleased with praise, especially when it comes from the Enhedslisten. So thank you so much. Yes, many different empirical studies are being carried out on the same subject and they arrive at slightly different results. The studies I've seen come to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104218	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104219	I know no one has claimed the analysis made by the FAOS, but I look forward to the rapporteur being able to prove his claim. I would then urge the rapporteur to put some questions to the Minister so that we can all clarify whether it is true what the rapporteur says, namely that foreign workers and, in this case, Eastern workers receive the same salary as their Danish colleagues. To me, there is absolutely no evidence at all for making such a claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104251	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104251-2	Well, I'm happy to follow up on this, but it won't be today, because I have all the cases in the Parliamentary Chamber, so maybe it won't be until Monday.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104305	Excuse me, sir. Bent Bøgsted has also asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104311	It's okay, President. You can easily miss it. It's okay. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl: Why should it be a technical barrier to trade if you have to pay a deposit that you get back if you comply with Danish rules? They don't already pay to get to Denmark. Sir. Henrik Dahl says that the fee for notification, which amounts to a few hundred kroner, is straining companies and is helping to create discrimination and make the workforce perhaps not come here, and what do I know? But then there is the other thing about the fact that it should be a technical barrier to trade if a deposit is introduced. Well, we are at the northern end of the European Union, but I have not heard that this would be a technical barrier to trade. I guess it's also a technical barrier to trade when foreign companies have to pay to make an offer, for example. The metro construction. They can't just make offers there without paying for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104417	Well, that would be a technical barrier to trade. I can illustrate this with an example. I myself had a consulting company for about 10 years with a changing number of employees, about 8-10 pieces, and we offered sometimes on assignments in e.g. Malmö. For a small company, DKr 20,000. In fact, it poses a liquidity problem and one may also argue that it is unreasonable, but it may sometimes pose a liquidity problem. So, of course, I do not think we should have such barriers to trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104455	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104456	I find it a little difficult to understand that this could be a liquidity problem. I assume that the companies that come to Denmark, who send people up here to work, are in order in their cases. I guess they can get a bank to give a bank guarantee of $20,000. I assume that they understand that if they comply with Danish rules, they will get the money back, and if they do not, then they will get a fine that is probably equivalent to the deposit of DKK 20,000. Then they won't get them back, because then they'll be used to pay the fines. Why should this be a technical barrier to trade? If they comply with the law, they get the money back and they don't have to put it in cash. You can have a bank give a bank guarantee for the amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104535	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104536	You can have different views on that. In fact, I do not think it is fair for the authorities to force small businesses to lend DKr 20,000. interest free. It's just a matter of differences in attitudes. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104552	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104600	Thank you. The RUT register is incredibly important to all of us. This means that we know what kind of foreign companies we have in the country. DF wants to strengthen the RUT register, and it receives praise from everyone in the Chamber. We all agree that we must work as hard as we can against social dumping. What we're discussing today is whether this is the right way to do it. And it is clear that I am also impressed by the fact that the Minister is so clear that, if we support this proposal, we are going against EU law, in other words we are doing discrimination against foreign service providers. That in itself makes me very concerned about supporting this proposal. However, if, in the negotiations with the European Union, there is now evidence to be wind, and it turns out that this proposal cannot, what can be said, risk undermining the work currently under way in relation to the European Union's request for the RUT register, then this proposal can be interesting very quickly. So I would like to look into the content a little bit, at the risk of wronging the proposal, because that is not really the intention. So what I am really trying to do is understand some things and just ask some questions that we might be able to look at in committee. And it may be that I am completely wrong, but it is certainly a real curiosity that is the reason for this. The first thing I am thinking of is: could we risk motivating some companies not to report if it costs DKK 20,000?? That is what I am thinking, for example. in sole proprietorships. I myself have had a single-person business for a number of years, and I have offered assignments abroad, including in EU countries, and I am just wondering what it would have been like if I had put $20,000 in it. Sometimes it wouldn't have been a problem. At least it would have a lot to do with what it was for a job I offered. But can we risk that there are some who simply don't have the funds and who therefore opposed what I would have done, which was just not bidding on it, perhaps would bid on it without signing up for the RUT register? At least that is something that should be considered. The next point is that I do not quite understand why it says that the fines are too missing or incomplete. And can this mean that the fees or deposits that are being placed here may come into play in relation to being used to pay for some not having signed up at all? Well, it's just a technical question... it's not to make the proposal wrong... which I think we should also look at. So, where is the direct line from those who are being punished for missing notification and who may never get into the RUT register, and then the money • the deposit or the fee to be paid here? These are some technical questions which I hope we will address, because I actually hope that this proposal will come up at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104912	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207104915	Thank you. The last thing I can answer quickly is that the fee for registering for the RUT register goes to pay the cost of the RUT register by managing the individual's registration and no one else's. The deposit goes to pay the fine you get if you do not comply with Danish rules. If you comply with Danish rules, you get the deposit back. It's as simple as that. Sir. Torsten Gejl says that the Minister must go down and negotiate in the European Union, but this is not what the Minister is going to negotiate in the European Union, because as long as it is not something that has been agreed, it is not open to negotiation in the European Union. This is what the newspapers say about abolishing the obligation to notify one-man companies. That is what the Minister is going to negotiate in the EU and it is not this proposal. It can only be tested in the European Union if it is adopted. But Mr. Torsten Gejl with the explanations I just made, that's a good suggestion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105010	I think it's more ok, the more explanations I get. I think the explanations I just got seem good. I am well aware that this is not exactly what the Minister is going down to negotiate, but if the Minister thinks that it is subversive to the negotiations that the Minister is going to have now, it also impresses me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105036	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105038	Well, I understand that sir. Torsten Gejl has that approach, but what the Minister says is subversive is not something that the EU says is subversive. This is something that the Ministry believes, that it is probably subversive and that we should not. After all, it is not the European Union that has been able to judge this proposal as subversive, and that is what we would also like to have tested. Because if the EU were to say that this is not going to work because it is against EU law and that we cannot, then okay, then we would have tried it and then we know where the border is going. We do not know that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105111	The Minister's strategy of preferring to negotiate what is being negotiated now and not having this proposal on top of the hat, I think, can be wise enough, i.e. what is about sole proprietorships.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105128	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105137	Thank you. Radical Left would very much like an orderly labour market. It is of course important, and one of the most important challenges we have at all is actually to maintain a good and orderly labour market. We shall vote against the proposal that is before us. We have received an assessment of, among other things. the former Minister of Justice of the fact that there is unlawful discrimination in relation to EU law, that this is contrary to freedom of movement and that it can be seen as a technical barrier to trade. It is, of course, clear to us that the wrong tool to address the problem has been chosen here. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105213	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105226	I think that this is a good resolution. I agree with the content, but unfortunately I cannot vote in favour. I think it is a proposal that can serve as a good inspiration for the conciliation circle of which the SF is a part, and we may be able to implement it in that way, but unfortunately not as it is here. I think it is deadly to look at companies that take care of the courts in Denmark and then travel from the bills. I think, moreover, that when we talk about fees, we should make a differentiation. I think it is rather modest, as the proposal is from the Danish People's Party, with the DKK 20.000, because one might consider graduated it if one has to think it in terms of an opportunity for it to be adopted, so the larger the contracts and companies, the higher the fee, so the fee also assumes a size that matches it. But I think the proposal with the DKK 20,000. is a good place to start. I would say that I have no problem with the European Union, because of course Denmark must stand firm on using RUT, both with fees and with money, we can hold back as a capital for any bills, and of course RUT must include sole proprietors.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105346	There are a few comments. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105349	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge says that because of conciliation the SF cannot vote in favour. I believe that the SF is actually in favour of this proposal, and I do not think that is a secret. But if it is against the settlement, how can the Danish People's Party agree with the government to tighten the penalty in the RUT register and the amounts there, because then the government would also have gone against the conciliation circle? Is it not the case that the government has cheated Mr. Karsten Hønge and has said: We can make some changes to the RUT register without asking the rest of the conciliation circle, but SF cannot support any changes in the RUT register without asking the government? Isn't that a little misleading?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105440	I simply do not recall whether we have been asked about this. I simply do not remember what it was like here, but we thought it was a good idea to increase the fine, so there was no problem, there was no substantive problem in it, because we were in favour of it, but how the process was in it, I am simply unable to remember. But I thought it was a good deal that the Danish People's Party made in relation to raising the fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105504	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105505	In other words, the SF has accepted that the government is coming and saying that we want to change here and then we do not have to ask the conciliation circle. If sir... Karsten Hønge then comes and tells the government that he thinks it is a good idea, so oh no, the rapporteur must not say that. Sir. Karsten Hønge must not make any proposals for change, but the government can do so. Isn't that a little tricky? The question is whether the limits on amounts and this is essentially part of the agreement on the RUT register, and I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105543	We're not going to get my inability to remember the process any closer, by the fact that sir... Bent Bøgsted asks the same question twice, for if Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question is correct, there is a point, but I simply do not remember what it was like, i.e. whether we were asked or whether the conciliation circle was over. I only remember the resolution itself, which I thought was a good decision, so there was no problem in substance, but I am simply not in a position to clarify on a stand-by basis what the process was like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105610	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105613	Thank you. I think it would be a good idea to discuss a modulation, as Mr. Karsten Hønge is talking about. I do not know whether it is a problem of principle for the Danish People's Party if we discussed the amount of the fine and how it should be linked. We could do that in committee. But otherwise I have to say that I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is not voting for it, because on 29 July you could read an article in Avisen.dk under the heading: SF and DF: Foreigners must put 20,000 to work in Denmark and then they should pay a smaller administrative fee. And it says in the article that this is how a new proposal from SF and the Danish People's Party sounds. Then I don't know if it's the professional journal 3F, where the story originally comes from, that's over-interpreted the consensus, but sir. Karsten Hønge is quoted in the article and something like that. So if the article is correct, what has happened since the SF cannot now support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105722	To the kind question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, I can just answer, like Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen knows quite well, but I would like to confirm from here that it was a meeting with reality. It turned out that we were involved in a conciliation which, at the time of the journalist's call and there I was not fully aware of it, confirms that we think that is a good proposal. We would even like to sharpen it up by graduated it, but it is of course of no use when we are part of a conciliation group which we think should then address that question. But we cannot run from the fact that we are part of a conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105753	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105755	No, that may be an extremely factual argument, but it is only a pity that the other conciliation parties have not been discussed. But perhaps that is what you have and then you have been told that this proposal should not be supported, because it is contrary to the opinion of the conciliation circle. Is that how it happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105820	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105822	We're not getting any closer than the explanations I've given.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105828	Thank you. And then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105834	Thank you. The register of foreign service providers, what we call the RUT register, is, after all, a very sensible tool to try to prevent companies from circumventing or abusing the rules, thereby exposing honest companies and employees to unfair competition. Similarly, the RUT register is an excellent tool to ensure that Danish rules are respected. I think we all agree with that. The Minister has explained in an excellent way the rules on this and the problems that may be surrounding EU law, and we fully agree with that. Sir. Bent Bøgsted was very brief in saying that if you paid the deposit, you could use that deposit to get the fines that those companies get recovered. In addition, of course, you have to recover very, very quickly. It is a problem we have in Denmark that we do not do it. Before companies leave Denmark, we need to make sure that these fines are recovered, and that is the second focus point we need. We don't have to do that in connection with a deposit. Conservatives see no need to impose fees or other charges, and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207105942	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207110000	Thank you for that, President. One might almost say that it was perhaps expected with the treatment that the proposal has received here. We've done our best to try to keep a clean line on this proposal. And we find it difficult to see why you should not be able to impose a deposit of DKK 20,000 on foreign service providers and companies when they sign up for the RUT register, which they will then get back if they comply with the Danish rules. If they don't comply with the rules on working conditions and safety and things like that, they get a fine, and then they'll be $20,000. go to pay the fine. Yeah, okay, well, you lost your deposit, but then you paid the fine. Today it is the case that the Labour Inspectorate and the State have to fight these companies once they have gone back to the EU to get the fines in, and that is certainly very difficult. There are a lot of companies going, they don't pay the fine, and then the state is the loser in this area. That would help to make sure that we got the 20,000 kroner at least. home of any fines they might get. And, as I said, they can just comply with Danish legislation, so they will get the money back. I find it difficult to see that a company, if it is a proper company, should not be able to afford to pay a deposit to work in Denmark. If it is the case that they find it difficult to raise the 20,000 kroner, then they may also find it difficult to raise the salary their employees will have to pay to work. Perhaps that is why we have some cases of underpaid labour, i.e. companies do not have the money to do so. I won't be able to say that. And you don't have to put the money in cash, you can put a bank guarantee for the 20,000 kroner that runs during the time you work in Denmark. If you comply with the rules, the money isn't lost. It should be so simple. The second thing about having to pay in connection with registration is because we in the Danish People's Party think it is reasonable that when you sign up for the RUT register provided by the state, you also have to pay the costs that are about to sign up. I understand that this is not a very large amount. It may be in the order of a few hundred kroner, it costs to sign up for the RUT register. So it should not be something that destroyed anything, even for one-man companies, if it was like what you had to sign up for. Then you're sure you're registered, and then you work under supervision. However, there may also be many who would like to avoid working under supervision. Because if you are not registered in the RUT register, the Factory Inspectorate does not know where you are. And perhaps that is also what the EU has in mind with the articles that can be read in Newspaper.dk and Altinget, that the EU does not believe that sole proprietors should be registered with the RUT register. That is what the Minister has said he will be working against. He wants to have a meeting with the Commissioner about this, but I have my doubts that the Minister can convince the EU Commissioner that it is a bad idea they are bringing in. However, we wish the Minister every success in working to ensure that sole proprietors still have to register for the RUT register. That should not be what destroyed anything, when you want to work elsewhere, that you have to sign up, because sole proprietors also have to comply with Danish legislation. They must also meet the demands we make on the labour market. It is not the case that you can simply fly under the radar, and if the European Union succeeds in getting through with the fact that one-man companies are not to be registered, then we have no control whatsoever. Then there may be thousands who travel around the country and work without us having a handle on it. They can offer their labour for a wage of 60, 70, or 80 DKK. I don't know what they're gonna do. We have seen examples of people who worked for at least 50-60 kroner. in the cleaning industry, so I guess you can do that if you're a one-man business. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen, to support the proposal. I hope, too, sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative has understood what this is all about, so we also get support from the Alternative. But I am ready to give in-depth answers to questions from Mr. Torsten Gejl, if needed. I don't quite understand, then, sir. Karsten Hønge was in favour from the beginning and would actually help to put forward the proposal that it would be contrary to a settlement if the SF agreed with the Danish People's Party that we should make this proposal. If we in the Danish People's Party could have the penalty tightened in the RUT register in connection with the Finance Act, that would also be contrary to the settlement, because the Danish People's Party is not part of that settlement. But it should also be contrary to the settlement that the government agreed with the Danish People's Party that we should tighten the penalty when SF could not agree with the Danish People's Party that we would make this proposal. But it is SF that must clarify with the conciliation circle what is the situation. I do not want to be wise about that, and I do not want to be wise about whether there have been any conversations in the conciliation circle with Mr. Karsten Hønge about this. Sir, I'm afraid so. Karsten Hønge himself explain. I get it that way, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is positive, yet he does not want to test the limit. However, the only way we can test the limit of what we have to do is to adopt the proposal and then test it against the European Union. And if the EU's verdict was that we should not, yes, okay, then we have to drop it again. But then we've tested where the line goes. We do not know that, because it has never been down and judged in the European Union, and therefore it is difficult to assess where the limit of this is. But it may be, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen comes to mind at a later stage, perhaps when it comes from the EU, that the workforce should be even more free and untouched by reviews. We don't know. We must look at what the Minister achieves. Hans Andersen, Left, supports the RUT register and talks about discrimination against those who sign up for the RUT register and those who do not sign up for the RUT register. But we're talking about foreign service providers. In our opinion, they should all be registered with the RUT register, so there should be no discrimination. And if it is used in connection with Danish companies, as Mr. Henrik Dahl also mentioned, so it is the case that Danish companies already pay a lot of things. Among other things: Danish companies also pay if they do not take in trainees and apprentices. Foreign companies do not. Those who have signed up to the RUT register will not have to pay if they do not take in apprentices. There are many things you can say that Danish companies pay to which foreign companies do not pay, and therefore I do not see there being any discrimination. Nor can I see that it would be an obstacle to trade if a deposit were to be made. Then it is a very bad company if you cannot deposit a deposit of DKK 20,000, which you get again if you comply with the Danish rules. Then something was said about the Minister taking a proposal on top of the hat in the EU negotiations. But, sir. Torsten Gejl, it is precisely the case that the Minister cannot do so, because this proposal is not on the EU agenda. And that's why, of course, the Minister can't take anything on top of the hat. The minister has to deal with what the EU has on the drawing board. However, I would like to thank those who have supported the proposal, and I hope that at some point we may be able to agree on something closer. If there are any changes to it, perhaps we can agree on such a proposal here. Because we are willing to see if there can be some changes so that we can get a majority for it. However, it was nice to test where the border is and, as I said, only where the borders are is being tested by challenging EU legislation. But thank you for a good debate. At any rate, it has shown little about where the parties are related to foreign labour and access to Denmark for foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207110907	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207110920	Thank you. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 11 December 2018. Before we begin, we need to get the rapporteurs up here and we need a little technique. So we're gonna wait a minute. Then I can sit up here quite calmly. We shall begin, and that is first the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207111314	Thank you, President. No stress, we'll make it. The proposal to introduce a residence requirement for entitlement to benefit has already received much publicity in the media, and it will probably not be less in the next few weeks up to the third reading of the proposal. Because we have not got to the bottom of the many problems, contradictions and loose ends that lie in this bill, and it seems that it is all in the interest of the media. We are, of course, pleased about this as opposed to the draft law. I certainly hope the Minister is, because it is important that the consequences are fully explained, and here the Minister must admit that they did not do so when the bill was tabled. But the core of the bill is clear to more and more Danes. We have had one example after another of Danish and foreign citizens, who have just done what most others do, namely take care of their work at home in the kingdom or abroad and pay quota to their cashier. But all of a sudden, they're gonna have to per. 1 January 2019 experience losing or losing their right to benefit within a few years because they do not comply with an arbitrary requirement that they should have been in this realm or within the EU/EEA area for 7 years out of the last 8 years or because they are not covered by one of the exemptions provided for in the draft law. Of course, it creates great insecurity for the individual. It is seen as deeply unfair, it is seen as a breach of contract, as a breach of trust • a major breach of trust. There can be no doubt about that when you read all the many inquiries we, as rapporteurs, have all received from the people who will be affected by it and when you read the many interviews that have been made in the media, especially in the newspaper Politiken. It is worth noting not only the benefits, but also the risk of losing one's sickness benefit, maternity benefit, even the right to a senior job and early retirement. Even children of foreign dancers under the age of 18 lose seniority in their residence requirements if they are with their parents abroad, and can therefore be punished when they are about to earn unemployment benefit. On top of all, the Minister, I think, is arrogantly refusing to give any thought whatsoever to paying back the insurance contributions that people really feel they have paid and have been cheated for. At the same time, the Minister's answer to our question raises serious doubts as to whether it will be possible for the cashiers to administer the proposal without the Members getting caught. The bill is a serious attack on the safety of the individual employee, but at the same time it is a serious attack on the benefit system and therefore on the employees as such. Therefore, Enhedslisten has called for a debate on the following questions: What can the Minister say about the consequences for the Danish labour market model, including connection to the unemployment benefit system, professional organisation and wage development, when many people are made poor because they lose the right to benefit or are prevented from obtaining it due to the introduction of a residence requirement for daily allowances as proposed by the government? I look forward to the Minister's reply and to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207111633	Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207111641	Thank you. I am also very much looking forward to the debate and, fortunately, it is a debate that has been there for a long time. After all, we have already had a consultation on some of this question, plus that a great many questions have been asked and many answers have been given, and I am also looking forward to further questions being asked. That is what Finn Sørensen says is necessary. But I am thinking of sticking to what is the discussion here today, and that is that Enhedslisten has asked me to inform you about the consequences for the Danish labour market model as a result of the introduction of a residence requirement for daily allowances as proposed by the government in draft law L 13. Let me start by briefly explaining the background to the draft law. The bill is part of the implementation of the agreement on lower taxes on labour income and greater deductions for pension payments concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party on 6 February here in 2018. With the agreement, the government and the Danish People's Party facilitate taxes on especially work and pension payments by 5 billion. kr., so that all the citizens of the country get a bigger gain by working. This also means that the unemployed receive a greater benefit from working rather than being on unemployment benefits. I think that is basically very wise and sensible. It has been a crucial wish of the government that you should have a close connection with Danish society if you are to take advantage of the benefit system. I have seen this in the past as a point of view that Enhedslisten had, but I have had to review it in the course of the political discussions. The residence requirement sends a clear signal that the condition for access to full benefits in Denmark is that you have a firm connection with Danish society and that you have contributed to it for a long period of time. In fact, I think that is common sense, yes, almost common sense in Jutland. It should also be seen in the light of the fact that the benefit is not an ordinary private insurance scheme. After all, the myth in public has become that the benefit system is fully funded by those who have to pay into the system. On the other hand, it is an insurance against unemployment, where about half of the expenditure is paid by taxpayers when you look at the funding over a long period. So the whole myth that the Treasury doesn't contribute at all isn't right. Therefore, it is also reasonable that you have contributed to society before you can get a daily allowance. What does this mean in relation to the Danish labour market model? And here I have been asked to deal with the question of connection to the benefit system, professional organisation and wage development. As far as connection to the benefit system is concerned, I would like to begin by stating that support for the Danish cashiers has been increasing over the last 10 years, so four out of five employees are now members. I think that's good. This corresponds to the fact that today there are about 2 million members in the A-boxes. In my view, this testifies to the fact that our benefit system is very attractive. I have never concealed the fact that there are some who are less encouraged to be in an unemployment insurance fund when a residence requirement is introduced for entitlement to benefit. It is also described as part of the discussion of the bill. For there will of course be some who are no longer entitled to unemployment benefit in the event of unemployment, and it is clear that they no longer have an incentive to be a member of an unemployment fund. However, the whole point of introducing a residence requirement is that if you are to benefit from the benefit system, you must also have a close link with Denmark. It is estimated that the new rules on residence requirements may lead to a future of approx. 20,000 fewer who want to be a member of an A-box. And what are 20,000 people in this regard? Yes, you have to relate to that in relation to the approx. 2 million members today in the country's cashiers. And if you look generally at the trend in the number of members over the last 10 years, I do not believe that the adoption of the bill means that we should fear for the Danish labour market model • quite the contrary. So today we have not even begun another important discussion, namely that a broad circle of parties except the Enhedslisten and the Alternative actually now also gives the cashiers some improved conditions and in relation to the Act on Active Employment Policy to work with some completely new ways in relation to their members than we have known in the past. It's not part of this discussion, but it's part of the whole discussion about how the Danish cashiers are, if you may say so, dealt with, and also what opportunities they get when you look beyond this bill. It has also been asked whether the draft law does not affect the professional organisation, and I do not think that is the case either. I am very much in favour of the Danish labour market model, i.e. that there are two sides to the question of labour market conditions. And the draft law does not change the advantages of being professionally organized in a trade union that can take care of the interests of the individual and secure collective pay. Nor is there any obstacle to being a member of a trade union without being a member of an unemployment fund at the same time, or vice versa, for that matter too, without necessarily having the right to unemployment benefit. So I cannot really see either what importance, if anyone at all, the introduction of a residence requirement into the benefit system might have for connection to the professional organisation. Then there is also the question of the consequences for wage developments as a result of the bill. As I believe, sir. Finn Sørensen knows very well that wages and working conditions in Denmark are regulated mainly by collective agreements negotiated by the social partners. As such, it's nothing that the state or myself interferes with. I leave this to the social partners, as I consider it to be a matter between employers and employees. I understand that there is again a contradiction between what the government stands for and what Enhedslisten stands for, because we have repeatedly seen that Mr. Finn Sørensen actually wants to make agreements here in the Folketing. The collective agreements regulate the pay and working conditions of employees in the various sectors. The agreements therefore lay down rules which affect the employment relationship of the individual employee. Employers who are covered by an agreement will be obliged also to comply with the rules of the agreement for employees in the undertaking, including those who are not organised. Collective agreements are appropriate as they ensure that the social partners are able to adapt the agreements rapidly to the individual industry or enterprise. In other words, I am of the opinion that we should leave the issue of wage developments to the social partners. Let me sum up what I have said in my reply. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, wants to send a clear signal that the prerequisite for access to the full benefits in Denmark is that you have a firm connection with Danish society and that you have contributed to this for a long period of time. In short, you must have a link with Danish society if you are to benefit from the benefit system. It is crucial that our rules are generally designed in such a way that you come to Denmark first and foremost to work and not because of our high Danish welfare benefits. It is therefore quite reasonable that we should contribute to society for a long time before we have access to our services. In other words, it is common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112402	Thank you. There are a few questions. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112411	In other words, it is the Minister who is presenting a draft law in which he himself writes that he knows very well that this will lead to a little more than 20 000 going out of the coffers. It is fantastic to make such a proposal when you are otherwise a minister who would like to travel around the world, including Europe and South Korea, for example, where we have been together, to praise and boast of the Danish flexicurity model. One makes a proposal which admits that it will thus have the consequence that fewer people will insure themselves against unemployment, with all the problems it will cause the individual family and the individual citizen, in the form of a lack of support, because they are then forced to live on an integration benefit or nothing at all. If the Minister does not want to acknowledge that this is an attack on the Danish model of flexicurity, then one does not stand by the intentions that are openly revealed in the comments to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112514	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112517	I mean, I'm totally on the mark for those remarks. In fact, I also think it would be very strange if it had not been included in the legislative proposal in order to be able to have an enlightened discussion. I just mentioned earlier that the government has reached a broad political agreement that the cashiers will now have much more influence on employment policy. This is not part of this bill, but it is an example of the fact that, although the governing parties and the Left in particular have been critical of it, we have also been willing to move in order to give the cashiers better opportunities. This may well mean that it is also proportionate to how many people want to be a member of an unemployment fund. So this is an example of us also taking initiatives that go the very other way, namely intiatives that strengthen the cashiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112605	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112612	We have received a lot of inquiries about this from ordinary Danes who have travelled out and contributed a lot to our country and who have come home wisely. They are now writing to us that they simply cannot understand it, because they have done everything we have actually said they have to do, but when they come home now they lose their right to benefit. I have to go all the way back to the beginning, because they also ask me why this has happened. Can the Minister not confirm that it is simply an agreement on tax concessions that would be made with the Danish People's Party to people, so that these people who lose their daily allowance pay for people, bank managers and others to receive tax relief? Isn't that basically what these people are paying for, i.e. the tax cuts that were agreed with DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112703	I can completely confirm what I said in my speech. But I would also like to say, in order to counteract a socialist scaremongering campaign, whether we had made an agreement with the Danish People's Party or not, it is common sense to introduce this residence requirement. Then it might be that the proceeds had to go to something else. But the fact that Danish welfare services are being protected does seem to me to be very sensible. And I am very surprised that the Social Democratic Party is in the situation of inviting and I would say that, like Leif Lahn Jensen, it is usually said in other areas that millions or billions of Chinese people can go directly into the Danish welfare community and get unemployment benefits. I can't believe it. But this is clearly the line chosen by the Social Democratic Party. I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112740	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112744	Thank you. The residence requirement makes it considerably more difficult to obtain Danish unemployment insurance, and what you are sending with this is the opposite signal of what the government sends when you talk about the need to recruit foreign labour in Denmark. At the same time, this residence requirement will mean that a great many Danes working abroad today will have a less incentive to return to Denmark, simply out of fear of a period of unemployment. I think that the government sends out very different signals in its labour market policy when, on the one hand, you want recruitment and, on the other hand, you make it both harder for Danes to return home and potentially harder to recruit foreign labour. Will the Minister address the discrepancy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112825	I guess you have to go back a little in prehistoric times. In fact, back in March 2011, a very large report came on the basis of an agreement with the Danish People's Party that one should map out the possibility of making profit principles on welfare benefits. Even then, the government of that time thought it was a good idea, and it has not changed anything. What I think is fundamental is that it is not possible to enter directly into Danish society in a relatively easy way without having contributed and then earning the right, for example. Danish daily allowance. I think we're gonna have to do a guard around that. And to all those who pride themselves on wanting to do things that can protect the Danish model: I actually think you're helping to make it even harder to maintain the Danish model if it's as easy to earn the right to cash benefits as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207112919	Well, the premise that the Minister is putting forward here by saying precisely that we must prevent people from simply entering the Danish labour market and so being entitled to unemployment benefits is not so much a matter of reality. We can say that here in the Employment Committee very recently we had a carpenter's friend who told us how he had gone to Australia for a few years to make himself more skilled and to experience something, so do what we really think is a very good idea: get some vision, gain some experience, contribute to his own education. But he now discovered, when he came back, that a law is now being introduced with retroactive effect, so that he is actually prevented from receiving cash benefits, and he is well aware in an industry which is highly characterised by precarious employment conditions. Right now it's going really well, but I wonder what it looks like in 5, 6, 7 years? So there's this whole thing about you doing something that goes against what else you say you want to do, and you hit some people with retroactivity, who have actually contributed and exactly not just step in. I mean, this young man has contributed in the past, has contributed throughout the period, while he has been in Australia and worked as a carpenter, and now wants to contribute again, and now you take the safety net away from under him.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113027	Firstly, the benefit system is therefore financed by the State crowns for half of it. Members pay only the other half. So that's the first thing. Secondly, there is also a transitional arrangement which means that a few years will pass before this proposal has full effect. Thirdly, it must be the case that when people return to Denmark, they must be with the desire to have a job, not with the desire to have a daily allowance. Fourthly, a large number of exceptions have been made which allow many to be exempted from having to comply with the rules in force. Then I would like to say that of course some will be affected by this. So it would be wrong to say that no one will be affected by it. You do not find a revenue of 200 million. kr., without it being felt, and there I have also explained how it is measured by third-country nationals versus Danish nationals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113122	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113126	Lise Møller Frikke is considering staying in the United States if the government's proposal for a residence requirement is adopted. She says: 'It is our financial safety net that suddenly disappears. My husband and I have been paying for the coffers for the last four years because we were told that we could count on the work in the United States to get cash benefits when we get home. And then the government changes the rules of the game in the middle of it all like a thief at night. It's not fair, says Lise Møller Frikke. Can the Minister not understand that one feels that it is extremely unfair when one has gone abroad to seek knowledge and to seek work in good faith and has been told that one can count one's income there, and then one is isolated abroad in a situation where one doubts whether one has any safety net at all when one comes back to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113225	First of all, it is difficult for me to relate exactly to the specific case, since we are trying to say that there should be no case-by-case proceedings here in Parliament or for that matter in the Folketing of individuals. It may be that I have answered that question, and it is always an answer that says: I cannot answer the specific situation. But then I'll tell you what the rules are like anyway. That's the way you answer it. So in that case you can put it as a committee question. But I simply do not agree with the premise. Would it not be possible to change the benefit system in relation to reducing it in proportion to the length of time you can spend on unemployment benefit? After all, this Parliament has reduced the period of benefit from 7 years to 4 years, as I remember it and from 4 years to 2 years. There is also fundamental change in the way the system is doing, and we have chosen to do so with our eyes open. That is why I simply do not think that it can be in this way that we should not change politically the rules that apply to the benefit area. You can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113326	We thank the Minister for the time being. Then we begin the negotiations, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113345	Thank you, President. I will start at Kastrup Airport to try to tell you a little about how the residence requirement will work in practice. Here work approx. 4,000 members of the 3F and one of them is called Gunar Sailors. He is 45 years old, from the United States and has worked at Copenhagen Airport for approx. Two and a half years. There are a lot of people at the airport like Gunar, people from all over the world, but there are also a lot of Danish. One of them is Nikolaj Jensen, and he's 22 years old. He worked at Kastrup Airport for approx. One and a half years. They work on the same agreement, they pay both taxes in Denmark, and they are both members of 3F and 3F's cashier, but if there is a new cut in the next few years, only Nikolai can receive cash benefits because Gunar does not meet the residence requirement. Is that fair? And what does that mean for the cohesion of such a workplace? It describes their union president, Henrik Bay-Clausen, in 3F Kastrup's member magazine in this way, and I quote: "See it for you when there are cuts in a company. The A-box you paid for can't help you, and you have to cling to the job. Such things can bring out the less neat sides of any person. Then he describes what touching the bill has created among colleagues, and ends by saying, and I quote: "It will not exactly be easier to get the next foreign colleague organized. The example confirms what I said in the presentation. The proposal for a residence allowance is not just an attack on the security of the individual employee, it is an attack on the benefit system and therefore on the employees as such. I am not alone in this view, but it is a criticism that comes from the whole trade union movement and from all the cashiers. If you are in doubt, you can go out to Slotsgården from now on and in the coming week and talk to the representatives of all A-boxes in Denmark who are standing out there demanding that the bill be taken off the table. So do the members of the trade union movement. 3F shop stewards in industry hold an annual national meeting. This year it was September 2nd-3th. Here they adopted the following: "The retention requirement of seven out of eight years in order to be entitled to benefit is an attack on the principle of insurance in the a-box, flexicurity and thus the whole Danish model. Why would the Minister and the Danish People's Party implement such a proposal? Apparently to limit foreigners' access to Danish daily allowances. However, it already requires a link with Denmark before you can obtain the right to benefit. Indeed, the Minister does not attempt to prove that third-country nationals are guilty of misuse of daily allowances which would justify such a bill. The only people who come more easily to Danish daily allowances than others, even lighter than the Danes themselves, are citizens of EU and EEA countries. But they're not gonna get hit by this at all. Instead, you hit a whole lot of Danish citizens. So the thing about hitting foreigners is probably just a pretext for undermining the benefit system and weakening the cashiers. In fact, it is in the comments. The government itself expects the cashiers to lose more than 20,000 members in that account. But what happens if you weaken the A-boxes? Then you weaken the trade union movement and the employees as such, and then you put the employers more strongly. The residence requirement for daily allowances is part of an overall plan for a massive impoverishment of large sections of the population, Danes as well as foreigners. If you lose the right to benefit because of the residence requirement, you cannot receive cash benefits either, because there is an even stricter residence requirement, at least per person. January 1. Then you are referred to integration benefit, cash benefits ceiling, 225-hour rule, a benefit which is today at the level of su, but which, according to the financial agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, is being reduced even further per year. January 1. And that doesn't stop there. The next step has been announced, it is a residence requirement to be entitled to resource progression benefit, unemployment benefit and flex-job grants. In addition to freeing up money for tax cuts, from which the highest paid and the rich get the most, all of this only leads to one thing: to a growing group of people who have little or no social security. The lower the level of social security, the lower the minimum wage. This is a context recognised by all economists and will, of course, push wages throughout the labour market. This is the real agenda for the government and the Danish People's Party, and it is not in the interest of Danish employees. Therefore, foreign dancers and foreigners who work and pay taxes in this country must have the same opportunities to obtain benefit rights and social security as all other taxpayers. The same obligations, the same rights, not only to protect individuals from poverty and gross exploitation of employers, but also to protect the Danish collective agreement system and the Danish labour market model. On behalf of Enhedslisten, Radical, Alternative and SF, I will read out this proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Government has made proposals for the introduction of a residence requirement for daily allowances. The Danish Parliament notes that the adoption of the proposal will result in many losing their right to benefit and the rights to sickness benefit, maternity benefit, senior jobs and early retirement resulting from the right to benefit. The Danish Parliament notes that the proposal will reduce the benefit system as such and that it will result in the loss of more than 20,000 members to the detriment of the individual employee and the safety of employees as such. Parliament notes that more security is needed for employees in the event of unemployment, not less, and calls on the government to withdraw the proposal. Parliament notes that if the government does not comply with the request to withdraw the bill, it will be necessary to reject it at the third reading. V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113931	Thank you. This is then part of the further debate. There is one brief comment, and that is to Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207113939	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen reports from the airport and mentions a few members, one must understand, of 3F. Then I'll just ask you if Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen does not think that the members of 3F think that there should be some reasonableness and that they may think that access to the daily allowance is also about having contributed to the community. Because it is not the case that the cash-flow quota alone pays your daily allowance. The Community, that is to say all of us through the tax system, has also contributed to the daily allowance. I believe that, in this way, a member of the 3F feels it is right that we should not simply come as a third-country national and have access to the daily allowance without the requirement that we have been here for a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114032	I believe that the trade union president of 3F in Kastrup, Henrik Bay-Clausen, reflects the views of his members, and those attitudes are quite clear that there must be reasonableness and that the reasonableness must be that when you go to the same workplace, have the same agreement, you are a member of the same union, and you contribute on an equal footing to Danish society, because you pay taxes on equal terms with all sorts of others at that workplace, you also have to have the same rights. That's what that union thinks, because it can see how harmful it will be if you make a difference between people. Then I'll just have to do sir. Hans Andersen notes that the people who benefit from the benefits have contributed in two ways by paying tax and by paying their cash contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114124	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114128	But then I think that the President may have to engage in a closer dialogue with the 3F members. A little more members' meetings may be needed in the appropriate fund and professional organisation, because I also believe that there are members of 3F who think it is quite reasonable that when you come to Denmark, it is a matter of contributing and also contributing for a period before you have access to full benefits, i.e. daily allowances. I think that many members of the 3F think that is quite reasonable, even if you work at the same place of work and even if you have paid the same cash quota.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114204	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114205	Now you can't get cash benefits and cash benefits without contributing for a period of time, because the Danish rules on cash benefits have been put together so that you must have worked and now we are talking about third-country citizens and not EU or EEA citizens who aren't affected by this bill at all 1 year out of the last 3 years, and that you must have paid your quota to your cashier for 1 year. Then there are some options that I am not quite rigid in myself, and I think that those opportunities are actually reasonable, because if you have been abroad, there are rules that allow you to include periods of work from there to a certain extent. I think that is fair. But it is not true that you can just come here and get daily benefits unless you are an EU or EEA citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114300	I would say that in every possible way this has been a long and a very strange case. The more you dive into the matter during the committee procedure, the more mess comes out, and the more it turns out that it is a very poorly prepared job and a piece of work that needs to be changed. What has just happened, as I see it, is that the government and the DF have found, in a few hours of negotiation, that they will give tax relief to various people, for example. bank managers and others, and they have thought that the payment should then be taken from those who come on the daily allowance. Here, however, they forgot to look at the problems that have now emerged. We now hear about Danes who have worked hard for many years and who have paid to the cashier for a long time in order to be able to get unemployment benefit on the day they came home and had no job; Danes who have gone abroad to work and who come home to a very low benefit, even though they have just insured themselves for many years; people who have become ill and cannot receive sickness benefit; women who cannot receive maternity benefit. And then all of a sudden, brexit appears, which one also just forgot to count on, and thus lots of Danes who work in England and who don't know if they're bought or sold. And last but not least, it seems to be extremely difficult for the cashiers to manage and to document the time their members have spent abroad. I am afraid that, in the end, this will mean that people who meet the residence requirement will not even be able to receive a daily allowance because it is difficult to document. At least these are the concerns we hear from the A-boxes. This is really bad and hits a lot of people. Therefore, we will certainly encourage the government and DF to withdraw the proposal. You can also see that there has begun to be unrest in blue camp and that it is difficult for them. It's obvious to see in the press. For the Left cannot be satisfied that 1,750 Danes travel to work and because of tax cuts are cheated on their daily allowance when they get home. One might ask whether it will prevent others from going out to work, out to become smarter and possibly come home and develop Danish companies. I'd ask myself that question if I was left. The Danish People's Party would like to look at a refund to the Danes who do not receive a daily allowance, even if they have paid for it for years. We have seen that in the press too. One might wonder whether they have any support for this in the government. I doubt it, but we can challenge the Danish People's Party when they get on the platform. And I wonder if the Danish People's Party is quite satisfied that this affects sick and pregnant women, that is, they are the ones who pay tax relief to some people who already have more than them. We in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of profit principles and we can support the residence requirement. That is what we said at first reading. However, I have to say that this proposal is in many ways very bad and does not affect it at all. That is why we are also voting against the third reading. My call to the government is: withdraw the bill, admit that it is a bad proposal and make a proper proposal together with the social partners. If the government won't follow our call, which of course we can't understand they won't... we hope they will... we will have to remove this bill after election as soon as we get to, and immediately start working on something much better and more intelligent with the social partners, thereby introducing residence requirements on daily allowances in a wiser way. With this I shall read out a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Government's draft law on the introduction of a residence requirement for daily allowances has neither been thought out nor worked through. The Danish Parliament notes that the bill will be problematic for the A-banks to administer, that it affects sick people and people on maternity leave, that Danes who work in the UK today and who return home after a future Brexit may be affected, and that Danes who have paid for years to their A-box now stand to lose their saved entitlement to unemployment benefit only by a shorter temporary stay abroad. Parliament therefore calls on the government to withdraw the bill. Instead, the Government is encouraged to maintain the ambition of making a residence requirement on daily allowances, but to change the actual design of the residence requirement and to discuss a change in the design with the social partners. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114732	This proposal too is now included in the further negotiations. There are just a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114740	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am very pleased that, after a long period of reflection, the Social Democratic Party has decided to vote against this bill. I was somewhat concerned at the first reading, where Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen was overwhelmingly positive about it. So I'm really glad about that. I am also very pleased with the rapporteur's statement that if it is adopted, we must ensure that we get rid of it as quickly as possible. I see it as that, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm that it is one of the first things we can do when, hopefully after the next parliamentary elections, we get a majority together, and that the abolition of this bill should not be conditional on the first agreement or agreement with the social partners. I have no objection whatsoever to talking to the social partners about such things. However, I disagree if it is to be a residence requirement that is at all similar to some of what the government has put forward. We'll have to take that then. But I just want to be absolutely sure about the order of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114845	Now, just in case, I have read my rapporteur's speech from the first reading, for I could imagine that I would be challenged a little in it. I was not, in fact, overwhelmingly positive at that time, because I also looked at these issues. But I also said there that we are in favour of residence requirements, we are in favour of income principles, and we would like to have it in the right direction. We can then just see that this is going to be a mess, which means that we simply have to vote against. Then Finn Sørensen asks a question about the last thing I said in my rapporteur's speech, which I can say again: after an election we will remove this law as soon as we get to it, but we will of course also do something that Finn Sørensen may not like, namely look at making a more intelligent agreement with the social partners to introduce residence requirements in relation to daily allowances in a wiser way. That is what we want to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114935	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207114939	Thank you. Thank you for the clear message. And then we move on to that discussion about the residence requirement; we will probably get it again many times later. But still. I don't understand this. Does the rapporteur not listen at all? In other words, the social partners have not shown any enthusiasm for introducing such a residence requirement, so why would Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen so absolutely try to shove it down their throats. I don't understand. Something else is: does the example of Kastrup not impress the rapporteur at all? For the example of Kastrup shows how negative such a residence requirement will work in a workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115015	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115020	I have certainly been impressed by the fact that we have received all the e-mails and examples. But I also have to say that we are in favour of profit principles. We are in favour of residence requirements. And I have no doubt that the day we get to where we want to introduce it, the social partners will otherwise I should know them very badly... too... play with us and see if they can do it properly. They will certainly be invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115041	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115044	However, one might be in doubt whether the Social Democratic Party is in favour of income principles in relation to unemployment benefits. For Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions that the Social Democratic Party will enter into discussions with the social partners. That is correct; you can do that. I have listened that it is not because they have the solution to this right now. So what is it, sir? Leif Lahn Jensen and the Social Democratic Party actually want when it comes to residence requirements? Because will the Social Democratic Party even do something here when it comes down to it? So is it a guarantee that the Social Democratic Party puts out from the platform that there will be a residence requirement, or how can I understand the message coming from the Social Democracy today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115143	One cannot be in any doubt about what we mean and what we have meant at least not if one has listened to what I have said, every time I have stood on the platform and spoken about this. Because, at first reading, I said that we can support a residence requirement and thus safeguard our daily allowance. And at this point I have also said that we would still like to support the residence requirement and the principles of income. That is why we will also make a better proposal when we come to power, which is precisely how to devise the residence requirement for daily allowances in a wiser way. We just think this bill is a bad proposal. It's very bad and unwisely done, and it just needs to be done better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115219	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115223	But I just have to say that there is a big difference between what Social Democracy says when Social Democracy is in opposition and when Social Democracy is in government. Well, there are numerous examples of that. And then it's just that you can sit around and be in doubt about that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says today, now also stands by if the Social Democratic Party should go and gain the power of government. So that is basically just what I was now trying to get the rapporteur to elaborate. I am in favour of signals being sent about income principles and the residence requirement, but is that really something the Social Democrats want?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115259	We're gonna get an answer to that now. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115303	I can say it again: if we come to power after an election, we will remove this bill and then we will make a more intelligent proposal in which we introduce residence requirements for daily allowances in a wiser way. And if that happens, you have to challenge us on it. But that's what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115318	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115323	Thank you. That sounds exciting. I think so, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says about a more intelligent proposal on residence requirements, sounds interesting, and of course we are excited about that, and I think all parties are excited about what the Social Democrats have in mind there. That's why I'd like to know if Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen already has an idea of how to work such a solution together. Or are we back by a good solution tomorrow? That is just what is interesting, because I think all parties will look with excitement at what it is of more intelligent proposals, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen will be included in the area of residence requirements and income requirements, because right now, I do not think there are any parties that will reject it, as Mr Leif Lahn has said. Leif Lahn Jensen wants to come, but we must at least see it first. Or are we over there where there's just a good solution tomorrow?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115428	What is certainly certain is that we have not been sitting and making this agreement, as the Danish People's Party has done, and my call to the Danish People's Party is once again: make sure that the Social Democracy sits right next to you when you agree something with the bourgeois government, because then it always gets better. That means that if we'd been sitting there, we wouldn't have been doing anything like this, and that's why it can only get better if we do it together. And it is clear that it should not only be social democracy and some others, because it must be done very broadly. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, that this is a mess, too. Bent Bøgsted admits, for Mr. Bent Bøgsted is now in doubt whether he will pay back all that money to people like Mr. Bent Bøgsted thinks they've been cheated. Sir. At one point René Christensen did not know if he could just support it there with stricter residence requirements and other things. We therefore have a Danish People's Party that does not even know what they have agreed to, and that is why the Danish People's Party should perhaps next time ensure that the Social Democracy is with or at least accepts the invitation when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115528	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115533	Well, that's probably possible after a choice. I don't know if it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, who then sits as minister at that time, I shall not be able to say anything about that. But so far, we haven't heard anything from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen about what the good solution is, that is what you want to bring. As long as we have not heard it, of course we have nothing to do with it, and that is why I say that, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is saying that it sounds interesting, and it must be taken as a positive statement, that is to say, what Mr Leif Lahn says. Leif Lahn Jensen says how to make it more intelligent in terms of residence requirements and income requirements. So we look forward to hearing about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115610	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115613	This is very, very difficult, and we cannot just do this in a committee procedure, because there we must have the same opportunities that the Danish People's Party has had by sitting over in the ministry and conducting some negotiations. Apparently, the Danish People's Party has not used this because they have helped to make such a mess. That is why we need to do a better job, and we hope, of course, that the Danish People's Party will also be involved, because this time it did not succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115630	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207115653	I was just sitting here waiting for another question to come to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, so I could have time to find out the papers, but then it didn't. But I think it's fine that we get this question, as Mr. Finn Sørensen has asked, so that we can get a little clearer as to what this is about. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party believe that there must be a wage claim in order to obtain a benefit paid by the Danish state. That's fair and fair. And I believe that we have never concealed the fact that we are in favour of income requirements for the various social benefits. I think we have been saying this all along, and I really think that most people in here can at least confirm that this is the position that the Danish People's Party has taken throughout. We find it difficult to see why it is that if you have just arrived in Denmark, you are entitled after 1 year to benefit and can draw on social benefits and go unemployed for 2 years without providing anything to society. That is why we have also put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that there should also be an income requirement for daily allowances, so that citizens from third countries cannot just come to Denmark and say that now they take just one year's work and then otherwise get cash benefits and live on them during the time they are then in Denmark, at least as long as they have the right of residence in Denmark. It is right and proper that you contribute to Danish society and pay tax to Danish society when you also receive a benefit. That's why we agreed this with the government. We can also see that there are some absurdities in this regard. This is also why a great deal of exceptions were made for employees who work in a Danish company and are posted to a subsidiary in another country. It can, for example, be done. be LEGO, which has a department in the United States, so if you as a Dane are locally employed in LEGO in the United States, you are also entitled to a daily allowance because LEGO is a Danish company, and then you are part of it. But you go out and get an agreement with a company somewhere that has nothing to do with Denmark, you don't pay taxes to Denmark either, and then you have to get under the income requirement. It is the same as if you are posted to the public, you are also exempt from the rules. If you are posted for a Danish charity, you are also exempt from the rule. There are so many exceptions in this respect. Then, of course, we have also looked at the problems around us. Among other things: There have also been some concerns from those who work in Greenland, but as Greenland is part of Denmark's realm, they are also subject to the income rules in Denmark and are therefore entitled to daily allowances when working in Greenland or the Faroe Islands. It's self-evident. Because it's part of the Danish realm. If we look at what is happening and what is happening to it, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentioned about brexit and England, well then, then I would say that England is part of the European Union now, and that means that all that has been earned in England until a possible brexit, which we do not know when will come, is to be regarded as earned in Denmark. So there are none of those who are over there who are being hit at this point, even if there is a brexit. It is only if one stays there after Brexit and England is declared a third country that one can get caught, i.e. if one is over there longer than one year. So there are many things that have been taken into account in this regard. But it is true that there are some Danish citizens who, in our opinion, are also being unduly affected, and that is what annoys us most, because if we could have made a law that did not apply to Danish citizens, we would have liked to have done so, but that would be to discriminate according to the conventions. There I have offered the Social Democratic Party that if they want to take part in removing the convention that means that we must not discriminate so that we can treat Danish citizens better, we could easily find a solution to this, but the Social Democratic Party will not be involved in this. The conventions are being observed, and fair enough, that is honest talk, and we respect that too, of course. But if you could make an exception, so that this did not apply to Danish citizens, then, as we have said all the way through, we are also ready for it, but you must not. There are so many things you can't do, but it would be easier if you didn't have any conventions that tied things up. Of course, we do not support the proposal, but I have a proposal for adoption which I shall read out. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I hereby submit the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the residence requirement is part of safeguarding the right to Danish welfare benefits so that people from third countries cannot travel to Denmark simply for benefits. The introduction of the residence requirement has, inter alia: background in the 2011 report of the Earnings Committee, which states that income criteria must be objectively measurable, e.g. residence or employment in Denmark. The residence requirement sends a signal that the condition of access to, inter alia: unemployment benefit is that you have a fixed link with Danish society and have contributed to it for a number of years. The Danish Parliament notes that the introduction of a residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit etc. will not have consequences for the Danish model, wage development or organisation in the labour market. The residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit is part of the Agreement on lower taxes on earned income and greater deductions for pension payments concluded by a majority of the Danish Parliament on 6 February 2018. V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120313	Thank you. And the proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120319	Thank you. I have to report from Politiken a few days ago. Because there it came out that, compared to some of those who have been paying for this insurance for years, some people thought they should have it back if you make this law that I can hear you sticking to. The rapporteur then says: Bent Bøgsted: That is fair enough; it is a proposal that we would like to look at a little more closely if we could do so. That's what he says. So I just have to ask: has the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party decided whether they will give that money back? Have you spoken to the Minister? Is an amendment being tabled? Or is it just a bluff and an attempt to say a little to some voters because you basically think this is a difficult proposal? Is there a suggestion? Has it been taken up with the Minister and will it be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120405	I remember that conversation with the reporter. For some of what I said came on the basis of an answer to a question which Mr. Finn Sørensen had asked the Minister about this, where a figure of DKK 600,000 was mentioned, as was also shown by what the journalist told me. In this context, I said that it is reasonable to look at it if some people have been wrongly, if you could say, paid to an insurance fund without being able to use it. And if it's $600,000, it's a small amount. I also said to the journalist that we must have a thorough look at how much this is really about. Is it only the 600,000 kroner, or is it a larger amount? I have no need to say that, because it is in that time that you have been entitled to benefit. You should not look back 30 years and look at what you have paid, but that is when you could actually have been entitled to benefit. This is the kind of thing that needs to be investigated before we can finally take a position on this kind of thing, and I said that to the journalist too. But how much the journalist has written I am not master of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120516	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120517	You want to take a closer look at what the journalist wrote, and you want to investigate that now, and it's kind of the same thing. So I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party will table an amendment. Will the Danish People's Party press the government for those people to get that money back if it, for example, is going to... is 600,000 kroner.? It is clear that if it is many, many more millions, it may be different. But if so, for example... is 600,000 kroner, so you have to answer whether you want to make a proposal or you want to push the government, because that is what is quite interesting. It is not whether you just want to think about it or investigate it, because you can always do that. Is there anything you want to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120552	Now this is relatively new, and I don't have a number on it yet. And if we get any figures on it before the third reading, I shall not be able to say. It depends on how and how this is going to happen. But the Minister is aware of what I have said here and where the figure lies. And what it's gonna look like, I don't have any prerequisites for being able to say today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120619	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120621	Thank you. If the rapporteur thinks it is important to clarify this issue of repayment, then the rapporteur can safely count on a majority from over here to postpone the examination of the legislative proposal until we have managed to do so. I just wanted to say that. I think that's a great logic. The Danish People's Party wants to hit all foreigners, so that they cannot get unemployment benefits in Denmark unless they have been here for many, many years. It is not possible to do so because of the conventions. Then you punish the Danes instead. How does it rhyme with the whole Danish People's Party approach? I thought that Dansk Folkeparti had as an agenda item no. 1 to protect the well-being of the Danes. Now you punish a whole lot of Danes for hitting the aliens. What do you really want to say to those Danes, for example? to Mr. Hans Erik Simonsen, travelers quoted in the Stock Exchange yesterday? He's 58 years old, and he's gonna lose his benefit rights if this bill gets passed. He can't get it back until the age of 65. He says, I've been voting bourgeois my whole life. I'm gonna stop doing that now if the law gets passed, 'cause I don't want to be cheated like this. What will the Danish People's Party say to Mr. Hans Erik Simonsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120734	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120735	There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party has a tough immigration policy. There should be no doubt that we are doing everything we can to limit refugees and immigration to Denmark. There should be no doubt that we are doing what we can to limit the exploitation of the Danish welfare system by refugees and immigrants, if that is what they are coming to Denmark for. We welcome refugees who behave and make an effort for Denmark, but we must also ensure that they do not come to Denmark because of the economy. That is what the Danish People's Party has always stood for, and we are not ready to give up because there is a convention that says that we must not discriminate. That we should then drop our entire immigration policy because of some conventions, we do not do so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120831	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120832	Frankly, I do not think Hans Erik Simonsen has any idea that he can pay rent or buy his daily necessities for the survival of the family on the pretext that the rapporteur is now giving me, for that is the case. It's just a bad excuse to take the benefits from some people. They say it's aliens' fault. It's like the kind of pedagogy where you beat your kids and say I'm sorry I have to beat you because you've upset Dad. That is the logic of it. It's awful. Does the rapporteur not see that it is completely insane? I just have to say that Hans Erik Simonsen has made the right decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120911	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120913	Well, maybe he'll vote on the Enhedslist in the future, I won't be able to say anything about that. But one thing is quite clear: it should not be because of economics that foreigners come to Denmark. The Danish People's Party will fight hard for this in the future. We will also fight hard to limit the access of citizens from third countries, from the Middle East, from Africa. There should be no doubt about that. We will also fight hard for the projection of foreigners close to a million by 2060 to be reduced. I know that Enhedslisten would like half of Denmark's population to be foreigners. We do not have that position in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207120948	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121002	Thank you. The questioners today would like to know what it means for the Danish labour market model that we are proposing to introduce an income requirement. In the Left, we believe that the earning requirement is a reasonable requirement that supports the Danish model. Because in Denmark we have one of the world's best and most flexible unemployment benefit systems. It is a system that we have been developing for many years and built up over many years, and we in the Left believe that it is in fact good and strong, and we must also note that at the moment fewer people are losing their entitlement to unemployment benefit. It is, of course, built up by being partly paid by Members, but of course it is also paid by all of us through the tax. Then we find it crucial that the people who are going towards Denmark do so in order to work and contribute to Danish society and not because we have an attractive benefit system. And we think it is reasonable that one should have stayed in Denmark for 7 out of the last 8 years in order to be entitled to daily allowances when this bill we are talking about is fully implemented. Just as on previous occasions, when we have discussed this bill, I must stress that there are a large number of exceptions; exceptions if you work in the EU, Norway, Switzerland, Iceland, if you are posted by your company from Denmark; yes, there are a large number of exceptions so that you are not covered by the rules of 7 out of 8 years. Then there is the question itself as to whether such a system would be detrimental to the existence of the benefit system according to such a rule. I do not believe that this changes decisively in support. There are 2 million Members today, and I think there will continue to be, and even in a situation where things are going well in the labour market, there could actually be more in the coming years. Then it's all about whether or not the professional organization is deteriorating by this proposal. I do not think so. After all, if you join a trade union, you still have to help them both to get help in terms of pay and working conditions. And you have to understand the issue of wage developments as if this might reduce employees' chances of getting a decent salary for the work they do in Denmark. I just have to say that I am still preoccupied with and in favour of wage formation being carried out in a negotiation between the social partners, and this should certainly not be a matter for the Folketing. So these should be my comments on this question debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121331	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121334	I just need the rapporteur to confirm that the residence requirement for daily allowances means that 1,750 Danes lose their daily allowance and that this saving has been made because in a negotiation they would give tax relief to other Danes, among others. bank managers. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121352	Well, it is quite true that, as you can also read from both questions and answers to this bill, both Danes and third-country citizens will be subject to the rules in the future when this bill is fully implemented. It is about the fact that we have entered into a tax agreement with the Danish People's Party, where we facilitate the tax, not only for bank managers, as the Social Democrats would like it to be, but for all people who are working in Denmark, and that is in order to contribute to the welfare of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121429	I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks that this bill we are discussing is a good political craftsmanship, and if not the residence requirement for daily allowances could have been made better, so that we could guarantee all those Danes better, the 1,750 Danes who have gone out, and who, as a matter of fact, just want to do it very well and get out and look for some other work. Couldn't it have been done much better than it was actually done?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121456	I think there's been a lot of work going on with this bill, and that work is still going on. A report will be submitted on Wednesday, as indicated in the roadmap. I understand that the Social Democratic Party has now regretted the support for the bill and the fundamental principles that there is an income principle in relation to unemployment benefits in Denmark. I regret that, but I think that the draft law is sensible and well worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121534	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121535	Thank you. In the newspaper Politiken on 5 December, it was on Wednesday, six interviews with people, Danish citizens who are affected by this. One of them is Heidi Andersen. She is 30 years old and she has studied and worked in China, but moved to Denmark in 2016. That means she hasn't been here long enough to maintain her right to cash benefits if this is adopted. Then Heidi says to Politiken: If I had known back in 2012, that these were the conditions, I would never have left. If I had known that the money I've paid into an A-box since January was money out the window, I would of course never have joined an A-box. What does the rapporteur really want to say to Heidi? How does the rapporteur, Mr Heidi, explain the logic and logic of the draft law that the rapporteur has been involved in putting forward in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121635	Our approach to this bill is that we think it is reasonable and reasonable that you have had a permanent link with Denmark and contributed to the community for a long period of time before you are entitled to the daily allowance in full. We believe that this is a matter of fairness. So that will be the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121702	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121703	Yes, but again I have to say, and I think Heidi will say that she can't pay her rent, she can't buy food for that when she goes down on that integration benefit and an even lower performance per year. January 1. What does she need that talk for? Then I have to say that the rapporteur has not been very good at convincing his own friends in Danish Industry and Danish Industry that this is an insanely good proposal. They are particularly concerned when they read such a statement from Heidi because they fear that it will lead to highly educated, well-qualified people not being able to move back to Denmark and that they will not dare to leave at all. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that the big business organisations think this is something that has been done here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121746	I believe that for the vast majority of people, if they want to go out into the world, it is about working or training and becoming wiser, and that when you return home, it is not a question of going home on unemployment benefits. You gotta go home and work. Well, I haven't heard of people going home to go on cash benefits. So my answer is that I kind of think that people continue to go out into the world and come back home and work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121823	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121825	I also asked the Minister about the example of Lise Frikke Møller, who is considering staying in the United States if the government's proposal on residence requirements is adopted. As she says, it is our financial safety net that suddenly disappears. My husband and I have been paying for the coffers for the last four years because we were told that we could count on work in the United States to get cash benefits when we got home. And then the government changes it all of a sudden. I do not know whether I can use the word 'prisoner' for the President, but I can at least ask: where is the integrity when it is the case that this is introduced retroactively, so that it is completely surprising for people who have gone abroad under completely different conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121906	The daily allowance rules have been amended in the past. There has been a change from 7 years of age to 4 years of age. Most recently, there has been a change about the fact that they are now 2 years old, with the possibility of earning extra years. This has sometimes happened with a broad majority, sometimes with a slightly narrower majority. But this has happened in the Folketing, where we have said that we are changing the conditions. After all, it is the insurance scheme that is included in the daily allowance. And a majority in the Folketing can decide that the rules apply in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121948	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207121949	It has happened, but it has not been with the help of the Alternative. This is not something that we have contributed to should happen. How can it be that in the past something that is wrong has been done as an argument for doing something that is wrong again?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122010	I would say that once we have changed the rules on how to be a beneficiary of unemployment benefit and what rules should apply to whether you are admitted to the benefit system, we have done so and put it forward. That is why you can deal with it and then you can cancel your cash quota if you no longer want to be a member under the conditions that now apply in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122040	At sir's. Torsten Gejl's direct question as to whether a specific word can be used, as President, I would like to say that I do not want to make a list of words that are not to be used, but Mr Gejl's. Torsten Gejl can be absolutely sure that if you use a word you cannot use, then I will intervene. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122054	Thus lectured on the borders, I will keep myself! But I thought it was a strong diet, I'd say to Mr. Hans Andersen, Imagine that a rapporteur from a government party can at all suggest that people go home to get a daily allowance and say that they should go home to get a job. Yeah, I'm pretty sure they do. But Mr. Hans Andersen did not understand the principle at all in that when for example. You don't do it because you're hoping the house's gonna burn. This is not the case. I am now drawing up an insurance policy, and I hope that the house will burn. That is not why these people have taken out unemployment insurance. They come home for work, of course, but it happens that work is not there. And the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has among other things. In the last few years they have had 1,549 members who have worked outside the EEA countries, and they consider that 23 per cent of them have been visited by the fund, which has in particular members who have a longer training course. by their members will be affected by it. In other words, it is people who have worked all the time, but for a period of time they may be affected by unemployment when they come home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122157	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122158	Yes, but then we must return to the whole discussion of fairness. In other words, we think that we should have contributed for a long period of time to all of us and to our common welfare, and hence also to the benefit system, before you should be entitled to the daily allowance for the full benefits. That is the argument we have and we stand on in relation to the discussion on profit principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122225	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122226	Yes, but this particular fund has given the Employment Committee one example after another to people who have just contributed, as Mr. Hans Andersen calls for years, but then goes abroad, outside the EEA area. And then when they come back because they've been out there for just over a year, they're gonna get hit by it. That is the problem, of course, not that they do not contribute, because these people have contributed for years and come to it again afterwards and have also done so while they have been away, by paying the quota. So they have contributed a great deal. And then they go out for a single year, maybe two, and then they get hit. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122303	Yes, but that's also why we say it's about having had a connection with Denmark, with the exceptions that have been introduced into the legislation for 7 out of 8 years when it's fully implemented. And that is, of course, with a view to having contributed, not only with your quota, but also with your tax payment, to our common society, in order to be entitled to a daily allowance. And we think that is reasonable and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122332	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122335	In addition to that, I would like to ask a question. The rapporteur says that you must have contributed for a longer time to the fund before you should be entitled to benefit. It is clearly not enough to have contributed for one year, which is the period during which you have earned benefit rights and also paid taxes. It is enough that seven out of the last eight years have been contributed. What's the financial account behind this? I understand there's some reasonableness in that, but have some calculations been made on this as well? Have you guys figured out when you've paid enough insurance? Why is it 7 out of the last 8 years? Why is that more reasonable than a year? This is simply not something that I have ever heard in any way answered, but I would very much like to hear the rapporteur's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122415	I think I must insist that we think it is fair to contribute to Danish society, and when you have contributed for 7 out of 8 years, we find it reasonable to have your daily allowance. I have not been involved in the debate on the tax agreement with which I have not been sitting at the table, so I cannot explain in detail the economic reason for this, but I note that the legislative proposal we are now making contributes money to lightening the tax burden on people at work. I am quite happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122452	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122455	Thank you. I'm not getting an answer to the question. It is obviously not an expression of an economic calculation, but just a feeling, a feeling that it is reasonable when you have been here for 7 out of the 8 years. So it's in that account. I have also spoken to many people who feel seriously offended by their sense of justice because they have paid and themselves think that they were part of a fair and balanced system in which they contributed, and therefore they could also expect to receive this insurance cover. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he has been impressed by talking to some of the people who, in good faith, have drawn up this system of profit, and if they cannot also say that their expectations were very reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122535	Yes, indeed. All the conversations and all the mail correspondence I have always make an impression, but it does not change my view that this is a matter of fairness and that we think that one should have contributed by being here for 7 out of 8 years in order to be entitled to full benefits in Denmark. It is, in fact, a safeguard for the whole benefit scheme, we believe, so we will, in effect, stand firm on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122601	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207122616	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for calling this question debate because it gives rise to an exhibition of the myth that the Minister of Employment has already pointed out: that the benefit system is an insurance scheme like everyone else. And it is good that we have that debate. After all, we have the basis of the Liberal Alliance that Danish services must be targeted to the highest possible extent to people who live, work and pay taxes in Denmark. In the old days we were notorious in some circles for saying that the optimum was open borders and closed boxes. We've realized that's wrong. Now we have controlled borders and go towards closed box; it is much better. So we think it is right and sensible to have a residence requirement. Then this myth has arisen, which has already been pointed out, that the benefit system is a classic insurance scheme in which the payments correspond to the premiums paid, but that is not the case. The Danish state and thus the Danish taxpayer are very much involved in financing the daily allowance. The insurance premium, if I may say so, is only about half the funding. And, of course, it must be appropriate for the recipients to have a close connection with Denmark, and that is why we must have a residence requirement. I would just like to mention something that no one else has mentioned, and that is the concept of poverty, which is also mentioned in the question. I do not think that is a term to be used in good time and prematurely. Until 2015, after all, we had a poverty limit that was abolished by the then Left Government, and I think that in a way was rather a pity, because when we had a poverty limit, we could also have a more sober debate on what poverty is than we often have now. The poverty line was that poverty was that over a period of three years, less than half of what is called the median wage. So that's the pay where exactly half earns more and exactly half earns less. At the time, that led to approx. 42,000 poor in Denmark, and it was also with the population we had then, less than 1%. of the population. Now we have a new poverty limit that Denmark's Statistics has introduced so that Denmark can live up to the UN's global goals, but I do not think it is very good because it also operates with half of the median wage, but it then says that it should only be for one year you are in that situation. In fact, I think that helps to water down the concept of poverty, because there must also be the concept that you are in a state that lasts for a long period of time: that you are stuck, that you are not short-lived. I would say that it was very reasonable to say that if we cannot get a foothold on the labour market within three years, as the old poverty threshold was, then it is appropriate to use the concept of poverty. That is why I simply think that I have to distance myself from the implicit assertion in the question from the floor of the Folketing that when the new system comes into force it will automatically become poor. You can't reasonably be said to be poor until you've been 50 percent. under the median wage for three years, and that is not how long the benefit period is at all. There will be Danes who will be worse off than they expected with this new scheme, and we have had a thorough discussion of that. But you cannot see the situation they are facing without looking at the advantages of the amended rules, namely that Danish taxpayers' tax payments go first and foremost to people who have it to be an acceptable cost. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123046	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123047	I was actually going to ask the rapporteur the same question as I put to the other rapporteurs who are in favour of this draft law: what is the answer to the people who lose their right to benefit here per year? January 1. However, the rapporteur's philosopher on a poverty line causes me to ask another question. For the rapporteur says that it is actually fair to have a poverty limit if you have lived below the median income for three years. Why, then, do you support a 7-year-old residence requirement? It has to be acknowledged that people can at least risk living in poverty for seven years, or at least from the three years that have passed, until the seven years have passed. That's the consequence of it. So why do you operate with so far a residence requirement, because what people get to live for if they lose the benefit right here per year? 1 January is, after all, the even lower level of integration which the rapporteur will support here in the financial legislation negotiations. So how is all that connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123201	I think that's a statement from Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen's side, but it's 50%. below the median wage. Of course, we agree on that, but just for the record. So, there is a boom in Denmark. There is an unemployment rate of less than 4%. I cannot possibly imagine that we will not be able to gain a foothold in the labour market within a short period of time. So that will be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123224	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123225	Now I do not even think that the rapporteur dares to give any guarantees that the boom will last for the next eight years. I do not think the rapporteur dares to do so. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take a look at the rapporteur's own arguments. He says something, and I really regard that as positive. In fact, unlike the government, he wants to discuss a poverty line. Then we may not quite agree on how to link it together, fine enough, let us take that debate and then the rapporteur sets the limit after three years and thanks for the correction, that is, of course, less than half of the median income. Nevertheless, the rapporteur operates a residence requirement in order to receive benefits of seven years, which, of course, means that you will have to live on what I would like to call a poverty benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123309	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123310	But all such political decisions are, of course, made in a set of very complicated balances, and the consideration that there is for making a significant contribution to the Treasury in order to be able to withdraw benefits from the Treasury is therefore very, very heavy in the world in which we live and with the very general situation we have with the population composition in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123341	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123343	I should just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that a residence requirement in relation to the daily allowance means that 1,750 Danes lose their benefit rights and that the savings are spent on facilitating the tax on work, among other things. bank managers. I know this can be difficult for the Danish People's Party, but it must be something that the Liberal Alliance thinks is really good. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123407	Well, I just don't think that 1,750 people are enough to lighten the tax for one bank manager.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123415	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123422	However, it is true that the 1,750 Danes who lose their daily allowance contribute to the financing of tax reliefs. I hope you can say yes to that, because you yourself have been involved in an agreement. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123431	It is, after all, very difficult to say exactly what kind of money it is to finance tax cuts. We would like to ease the marginal tax, but we are very pleased with the tax relief that is, because it is good for Denmark that work is not taxed as hard as has been done so far. This promotes economic growth and we are very concerned about the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123452	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123455	When the rapporteur says that 1,750 Danes' daily allowance is not enough to lighten the tax for one bank manager, that is a fine thing to say. Does the rapporteur think that we should completely remove the bank manager's tax, that is to say that bank managers will not have to pay taxes at all anymore, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123516	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123520	That was a clear answer, so we move on to the next question, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123522	Usually, the Liberal Alliance is very concerned about getting people to travel abroad; they become more skilled and they gain international visibility. I have often heard the Liberal Alliance speak very much in favour of what, incidentally, I also fully agree with giving a lot of new perspectives. But will the rapporteur not say that this will help to limit the desire to go out?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123544	It may well play a part in one's thinking. It is not something I have statistics on, but I know many people who have traveled out for shorter and longer periods, and I have never, when they so explained their reasons for travelling out into the world, heard them bring up the theme of daily allowance on return.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123615	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123617	- Sir, you can. Henrik Dahl then get the opportunity, perhaps not through personal acquaintances, but simply by following the daily press. Because there are several people who say it means a lot to them. And this is not just about those who have taken a long education and who are going out. In other words, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have also been visited by people with craftsman training who, after a few years of leaving, come home to industries which are very dependent on the economic cycle, and thus also have to pull the plug for the security that they thought their cashiers could give them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123651	Yeah, but I just think that if we don't protect, among other things... the welfare state and the way the welfare state is financed, people who have been travelling out for a long period of time will not actually find the Denmark that will then arise, particularly attractive to return to. So this is an initiative that helps to create a sustainable social model for Denmark and a social model that most of us, in the end, really like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123721	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207123737	Thank you. Johanne Møller has no right to daily allowances for the next 7 years because she has worked in East Africa for about 6 years, including for 4 years as an independent journalist and communication consultant on contracts with local and international organisations and companies. She says: "One thing is to be available • It's not really my main concern right now. But that I also stand to lose the right to maternity benefit if I get pregnant, and sickness benefit if the accident is out • it has knocked the air out of me a little. Because what's my alternative then? 28-year-old Signe can only receive cash benefits if she travels from her girlfriend and job in Australia: If I leave now, I would have to live with my parents in the countryside in North Jutland, I would be unemployed, and most importantly, I would not be able to be with John, with whom I love to share my everyday life and with whom I am building a life. Nikolaj Ovesen worked in Canada for 1 year, and now the daily allowance can smoke until 2022: I went to improve and develop. Apparently now I'm in danger of being punished for it. It's very good night, says Nikolaj Ovesen, who works as a driver. Lasse Knudsen worked as a carpenter in Australia for 5 years, and now it can cost him the daily allowance: Well I am tired of that suggestion. I have done what many think is a good idea: to go out and learn something. There is no link between the risk of being punished for it, even with retroactive effect, he says. Karen Marie Thulstrup worked for five years in Tanzania for an NGO, now she is affected by the residence requirement: My husband is studying Danish and has a study job next door, so I am the primary breadwinner in the family; if the residence requirement is adopted and I lose my job, it will really put us in financial difficulties. Danske Anitta Sindberg-Graham has to wait for 7 years for unemployment benefits because she has lived in Australia for almost 5 years: I am such a person who has always backed up and told my friends that it is important to be a member of an unemployment insurance fund; I think they are doing a good job, and it is important to have a place to go, so I am really sorry that I may be cut off from that opportunity. The Schønwandt family in Sydney, Australia, must make a big decision very soon. Are they going home early or are they going to stay for 2 years as planned and lose their daily allowance for 7 years? Let me say in relation to this last example that I mention to people in trouble that the Schønwandt family has a choice, but there are thousands of Danish citizens who do not. They are already caught by the government's new residence requirements with retroactive effect, although the rules will not enter into force until the new year. And it is not only individuals who are affected here, it is also families with children. The agreement also has consequences for the Danes' desire to go out into the world and seek out knowledge and work experience. The demand also has the unfortunate consequence that far fewer Danes will in future seek knowledge and experience in countries outside the EEA, for example. China, Australia, USA. This confirms a new study carried out by inter alia: members of Magistrenes A-kasse, CA's a-kasse, 3F's a-kasse, the Social Pedagogues' A-kasse, Your Healthcare A-kasse and the Teachers' A-kasse. A simple average of the replies of cashiers shows that 78% of the total number of cashiers in the euro area is in the euro area. At the same time, several members who are already working abroad say that they will consider whether they will even return to Denmark now that their safety net is gone. All of this, as we have heard, is the result of the government and the Danish People's Party agreeing on a new tax agreement, and the agreement is financed, among other things. by the introduction of a number of new profit principles for several welfare services, including: unemployment benefit. The intention is to limit foreign nationals' access to Danish welfare benefits. But rarely have I seen a law frame so crooked. Thousands of Danish citizens are affected, thousands of Danes are prevented from seeking happiness abroad. It is thousands of Danes who want to improve their skills, who get work experience, who learn skills and skills, they can take home and use in Denmark, and some of them even meet love. In the alternative, we believe that we should give Danes the freedom to seek happiness in a global world, and their homeland must be a safe harbor to come home to. Denmark must be the stone-proof home to which you can always return to find security, regardless of the sky you have ended up on God's green earth, and it should not be an insecure home. It should not be a place that gives cause for uncertainty and fear for the future, because we must all be production units that must fit in with some bourgeois philosophy of growth, which even has a totally shattered policy of symbolism aimed at foreign citizens. We also think that this law is proof that the government's regular praise of the Danish model is somewhat hollow. Because while commending the Danish model with one hand, the other is trying to weaken the A-boxes and the Danish trade union movement in this connection with proposals that cost tens of thousands of cashiers. So I think you should meet the massive demand for once and take this proposal off the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124239	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124253	Thank you. In my view, it is appalling to introduce a residence requirement which is an arbitrary requirement for the right to benefit. I believe that the rules of the labour market alone must determine this right. If you have earned the right to benefit, you have also been legally resident, and if you have earned your right to benefit, you have also paid tax and thus contributed. That's enough. We hear from rapporteurs today that this is a reasonable consideration; one must have contributed for a certain period before one can participate in this premium insurance scheme. There have been no figures on what the economy behind that assumption is, but at least it is no longer enough to use the labour market rules. Now something needs to be added upstairs, and it's gonna be this residence requirement that's gonna determine this scheme. This means that we will have fewer insured people; it means that we will have greater insecurity; it means that you will have a lower incentive to go home if you are out, and to go out if you are at home; and it will, moreover, be equally harder to recruit labour from abroad, that there is now also the increased uncertainty if you as a foreigner have a period of unemployment. These are things that work against other government policies. There are additional derived effects which are referred to today among many. I have also been approached by people who are caught or who have been violated by their sense of justice because they feel that they have entered into a contract of good faith, which is now being amended retroactively. There are people who are in doubt whether they can afford to get pregnant, there are people who are afraid to get sick. I believe that we should take better care of our labour market model than this proposal is an expression of. I think we should be able to make sure that this goes the wrong way. The intention is quite clear: The Danish People's Party will hit foreigners. And cynicism is quite clear: you are ready to strike unintentionally. And the effect is also quite clear: we are going to undermine the Danish model. I would like to thank you for the initiative for the debate on the Enhedslisten, and I would like to repeat once again that we are, of course, strongly opposed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124456	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124503	The justification for the law does not stand. Of course, you should not be able to enter the Danish labour market directly and get unemployment benefits without contributing. But this law is very much affecting people who have contributed so much with all sorts of different educational and work backgrounds. A-box CA, which is for those with a longer education, currently has 1,549 members who live or have lived outside the EEA for the last 8 years. They themselves expect 356 of their members to be affected here and now and many more later. And it is people who have contributed and paid a great deal to the welfare society for many years. The Employment Committee was recently visited by a delegation from the Copenhagen trade union BJMF, and in the delegation there was a young carpenter's turn, Lasse Skovbjerg Knudsen. He has done what so many people are calling for, namely to go abroad, as we would like young people to go out and see the world. It's fun to try to work elsewhere, to become smarter and better. And by the way, he paid his quota faithfully in the years he was out. After a few years Down Under, in Australia, he comes home to a situation where he can find that the money is wasted. Now his insurance policy is virtually worthless. Right now things are going very well in the construction industry, and Lasse Skovbjerg Knudsen can get a job. But what will the situation look like in a few years' time? It can reverse that we have experienced so many times. And then the right wing with this law has pulled the pants off of a skilled and enterprising carpenter's turn, and he has to find that it can go and become a rather cold experience. As a consequence, the law will mean that many will withdraw from the coffers and thus contribute less to society. The minister expects that 20,000 will sign up • Danske A-banks expect considerably more. Fewer members of the A-boxes, fewer in the trade unions are undermining one of the pillars of our successful labour market. Organisation and security are the prerequisites for flexibility and dynamism. That is just 20,000, says the Minister, although it is likely to be many more. And I have previously called the Ministry of Finance and Employment the united sausage cutting factories, and now they again swing the knife slice after slice is cut by the healthy sausage. It's gonna be awkward. Danish citizens and children and their spouses are affected. It's not fair. It's a law that works retroactively. People have not had the opportunity to adjust to the fact that they have taken out insurance without cover. It's unnecessary. We already have a number of safeguards to protect the labour market. I encourage everyone to participate in the debate under the hashtag #drop stay requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124835	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207124846	Thank you. After mr. Karsten Hønge, I'd better put the microphone down a little bit so I can look over it too. After all, I am very pleased that I have taken up my previous rapporteur's speech from when we dealt with this issue at first reading of L 13 and what I said at that time does not change the debate we are having here. On the conservative side, we think it is a very good step that we are now introducing a residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit, so you have to stay here for at least 7 years out of the last 8 years. We are also very pleased that we have a transitional period, so that we move slowly from 5 years to 6 years to 7 years, and we think that is very good. I would also like to say, like the other rapporteurs, that we have received a great many requests from worried citizens who say that they are now being affected by this. What we have been asked about most is about Danish citizens who are affected, and we have to say that it is true that some are affected, but the most important thing for me is also to make it clear that when a Dane goes abroad to work and to be able to do his job, it is not a condition that you expect that you will then have to return and have unemployment benefit. Once people have been abroad, they are really in demand when they come home, and therefore I am quite sure that there are real, very many people who immediately get a job, get a well paid job when they come back, so I'm not so worried about that. But we really appreciate this bill, L 13. We think it is a step in the right direction that we should help to contribute to Danish society for a long time, not only by knowing that we have only paid cash contributions for a period, but also by knowing that we have been contributing to Danish society for a long period of time by paying taxes, because, as several people have said, it is the Danish taxpayers who are paying half of the unemployment benefit to be paid, and therefore we also think it is quite reasonable that we should then have contributed for a longer period of time than maybe only one year in paying taxes to Danish society. So, of course, we fully support the proposal for the adoption by ourselves, by the Danish People's Party, by the Left and by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125134	Thank you for that, thank you for the debate, and thank you for many of the constructive comments that have been made, not least from the governing parties and the Danish People's Party. After all, the debate has made us wiser on a number of points, first and foremost on Mr Seligman's report. Leif Lahn Jensen, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted very right says is a return to Helle Thorning classic: There comes a good solution. But you don't know what's in that solution. The truth is that there is probably nothing in the solution at all. It has to be said that the Social Democratic Party has, in fact, managed to change a hundred per cent position within a short period of time. If you turn back time to the first reading, there was that normal talk, which is always from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's side during the debates, that everything is bad, that the committee procedure could be improved and that the ministry has not understood anything at all, but it is usually supported. That's what it was, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen expressed his views. A great deal has happened then, and I do not even know what has happened in the Socialist Group, but we must have researched that. I am quite convinced that, of course, there has been a discussion in the Socialist Group, and perhaps someone has also given advice, and then it has come to the conclusion that the proposal will not now be supported. But you are not so much opposed to it that you think that the principle of profit is not a good idea. I think there are some tactical considerations behind this: when it comes to campaigning, you are worried about whether this is going to be a discussion, and I would like to report today that this is going to be a major discussion. Of course we have to discuss this with each other. Of course, we must discuss the fact that it is now felt that the Danish benefit system should not be protected, that it should still be subjected to attacks in the future too. And I am actually surprised that the parties that are very concerned about having a model of solidarity are not more concerned with protecting the Danish benefit system. A great deal has also been asked about the figures today, and I think that is a very good discussion, namely that several people have said: What about the 1,750 Danes? Yes, what about the 27,050 third-country nationals? They fill very little in the discussion; after all it is 60%, so it is common sense, and that is why I hope and it should also be my appeal to the Social Democratic Party today that the Social Democratic Party ends up supporting the proposal after all. Karsten Hønge was very colorful as usual. It has to be said that this was an exciting speech from the rapporteur. The only thing I got out of it was basically that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Employment are a sausage factory exciting. It is certainly a sausage factory, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has a very great responsibility for having helped drive through a wide range of political settlements. And, of course, with a government responsibility back under Annette Vilhelmsen, where it has to be said that at that time the SF was not very concerned about making improvements in any of the areas in which elections had been held, but all the opposite. I want them to get that praise. And that is probably why we can quote another well-known politician, Mr. Karsten Hønge, who was chosen on Funen, to say that the SF was driven around as if they had bitten into a rolling table. Nothing is more right than that; we did not have that speech unfolded during today's debate, but it can therefore be recalled that it was a good speech that was made there. Then there is Enhedslisten, who has asked the question, and that is fair enough. This was a good discussion, and I am at least left with the impression that the opposition cannot even agree on a joint adoption. Well, that's interesting. And that is why it is good that a proposal for adoption has been put on the table by the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, which points forward, but which also underlines what the point of the proposal that we are discussing here today is. And I would also like to say that I expect a great deal of discussion on this right up to the third reading. There will be both a second and a third treatment, and I am also trying to make sure that I myself will be present during those treatments. Because it is the case that in a relatively short time I can become a father at very short notice. So, in the case that I was not allowed to be in the Chamber myself, this is not about sabotaging the legislative procedure. Then it's because my boyfriend is in happy circumstances and is about to have a baby. This has not yet happened, but it cannot be ruled out before the Danish Parliament has its last vote on 20 December. So it is just to vaccinate in relation to that debate too, so it is not the case that now the Minister for Employment became so afraid of the whole discussion that he stayed away. No, it is then because of another thing, something that also has something to do with my work, namely to ensure equality, so that the man is also present at birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125613	There is a joyful event in store there. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125618	Thank you, and thank the Minister for at least a well thought-out line. There was little content in it in relation to the debate we have had, but it was well thought out at least. And then I would only like to congratulate the Minister for taking the responsibility that fathers should take. But then to the point: what I want to ask is something that I think is going to fill even more in the rest of the legislative procedure. This is the question of how the cashiers can manage this at all. I have put some questions to the Minister and I have noted that he has not answered Question 20, and it is of course the rather urgent question whether the cashiers are in a position to manage it here at all. After all, it requires them to be able to obtain the information when it comes to EU and EEA citizens from the other EU countries. And there is something that suggests that the Minister is not quite sure they can. So now I would like to ask the Minister: will the Minister guarantee that Danish cashiers will be able to obtain the information they need when they turn to other EU and EEA countries to know whether a given cashier has been staying for how long in that EU country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125736	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125738	During the consultation that we had on the theme "We have also had another consultation" a number of concerns were also raised. And it was at that consultation that I agreed to a meeting with Danish cashiers, which was held last week. And on the basis of that meeting, I believe that a number of questions were submitted by Danish cashiers. I expect all these questions to be answered over the weekend, and the letter which I then send with my reply to Danish cashiers will then also be sent to the Employment Committee and thus Mr. Finn Sørensen. And in that there will also be answers to some of the concerns that lie in Mr. Finn Sørensen's question. We must, of course, find a model which enables Danish cashiers to manage the rules that may be adopted, and it is also my clear expectation that this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125818	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125820	Thank you, and that answer will, of course, be studied very, very carefully. But the short thing is that in the reply I have received so far, the minister cannot say • unless he wants to guarantee this that the other EU countries and their authorities are obliged to store information about citizens for as long back as is necessary to find out if they meet the residence requirement. For the Minister himself writes that the data regulation is linked so that you can delete this information if you no longer think you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125901	I think I can say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen: Before you take all the grief on advances and I myself am also quite good at taking care of advances, I think we should wait for the answers that are given as an in-depth answer, also to some of the follow-up questions that Mr. Finn Sørensen has asked. Then we can take the discussion on an enlightened basis. But, of course, Danish cashiers must be able to administer legislation that is adopted. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125923	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207125926	I think it is very good that the Minister is going on maternity leave, and he should look forward to that. It's been years since I've tried it, but it's really good. Some of us here have been trying to get the Minister to go on maternity leave for several years. We fight for that every day. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What I want to ask now is, in relation to what we are talking about in relation to the Danish People's Party, that they actually want to pay back to those people who are now being cheated on unemployment benefits and who have actually paid for something they do not benefit from. Mr. Bent Bøgsted is investigating. Where does the minister stand? Is the Minister prepared to make concessions, or is it just a blank no?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130008	I would like to start by saying that we are talking about some people who are being cheated on the benefits, so it is a very strange discussion we have here. Well, some people have a job. It's like having a job is a problem. Actually, I think it's a good solution for you to have a job. It's something you're glad it's healthy. So I don't see who's gonna be cheated. But it is clear that I have ongoing discussions with Bent Bøgsted almost on a daily basis about many different things. This is one of those things that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has asked me questions about that, and I am taking it very quietly with Mr Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted. Then we talk about it and then we look at how and how it affects the political debate. So you shouldn't worry about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130048	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130052	So we can expect an amendment before the third reading?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130057	I mean, if I were to make amendments to all the conversations I have with Mr. Bent Bøgsted, we should extend the assembly for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130103	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130107	I am not going to drag the debate too far. I would just like to congratulate the Minister for Employment very much on his new boss, because now there are other buns on the soup when the Minister for Employment becomes subject to a whole new type of boss. That's not what the minister is used to, but there'll be a little girl here in too long, and then the Minister for Employment will find out who's boss in that little home. So big congratulations on this for Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130137	Thank you. It can't be any more beautiful. But that does not mean that I am not trying to be here during the second and third readings. I'll do my best for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130143	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130148	I understand from the Minister that 60%. of those affected by this change are citizens of third countries and therefore it is common sense. The argument did not go any further. Are these 60%? Really problematic? Have they not been legally resident, have they not paid taxes, and have they not been part of the labour market for which the Minister himself would like to make it easier to recruit?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130214	I mean, if anyone, I don't mind coming to Denmark and contributing. I think that's a really, really good idea. Then the question is just how much to contribute before you can access the Danish welfare services, and there I think it makes sense that you should contribute something more before you get into that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130227	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130230	May I ask you more than what? It is therefore not enough to have been on the labour market here the year in which the right to benefit has been earned. But what is enough? It does not seem that there really is an economic argument underneath. It's some kind of fluffy sense of reasonableness that never really gets drilled out. Why is that 7 out of the last 8 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130250	If you want to dive into a longer discussion about it, I can say that back in 2011 a rather large report was made on the recovery of Danish welfare benefits. I think it would be a good idea to refresh it, at least for Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There you can see a large number of the considerations about making profit principles for welfare services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130308	We thank the Minister. In order to round off the debate, Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130323	Thank you. We have to see if I can round it up. It shouldn't be too round. I just want to say thank you for a good debate. I think it has been. Admittedly, a lot of nonsense has been said here from the platform, some of which I myself have contributed. That was when I came to say in the heat of the fight that as an EU-EEA citizen you can get daily allowances here in Denmark from day one. After all, it has not come that far yet. That's three months. But we must be aware of this, and I will come back to that if I have time, that there is a feeling in the European Parliament that it must be possible to obtain Danish daily allowances from day one. Perhaps we can then talk about the fact that if the Danish benefit system is under threat, where is it actually threatened from? Indeed, it is threatened by a government that wants to reduce the number of members of the cashiers, as we can see from this proposal. It is also made up of a number of parties which have made great efforts to reduce the Danish benefit system by halving the benefit period and doubling the claim for a right to reimbursement. Is it possible to prove that the Danish benefit system is threatened by foreigners? I think that will be very difficult, because then it would probably have played a much greater role in the government's arguments. It doesn't matter at all. There is no attempt to prove that there is an abuse on the part of foreigners of the Danish benefit system, which should prove that thousands of people, both foreigners and Danes, will now be deprived of their right to benefit. Then a little has also been said, and others have also contributed nonsense. That is, for example, the case. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, who came to say this, must be a little patient with him, that you could get unemployment benefits and social benefits here in Denmark without paying tax, so I think the rapporteur has misunderstood or came to say that you can raise unemployment benefits for 2 years without paying. You can't do that. You have to be available for the Danish labour market, otherwise you will not get a daily allowance. The Minister and the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance have tried to produce it as if Enhedslisten with several believe that the Danish benefit system is an insurance system completely in line with others. No one has expressed itself. This differs on a very important point, and it is in fact that the Danish daily allowance insured person pays for his insurance through two channels. One is the insurance contribution, the other is the tax ticket. I am not familiar with other assurances that are connected in this way. What I am aware of is that there have not yet been any of the supporters of this proposal up on the platform and explain what is reasonable. What is reasonable, and why should it be exactly 7 years out of 8 years? If you can't justify it, you get a suspicion that it can easily happen with this allowance requirement, which has happened to the requirement for cash benefits, namely that you turn the button. Why not eight years out of the last nine years, why not nine years out of the last ten years, as is now the case for entitlement to cash benefits? I'm afraid you've found a screw you'd like to put right here, where it's standing now, and then later screw it up. Finally, I would like to comment a little on this discussion, which was actually devoted to everything, namely what it means for the Danish labour market model. I have said on a number of occasions that there is a link between the lowest benefit available, dependency, and the development of the minimum wage. I just have to say that I'm not the only one who has that opinion. It is a view shared by all economists. I would like to quote from the autumn 2015 report of the wise men, page 202, where the wise men say: "The public services targeted at the unemployed constitute, in practice, a lower limit to pay in the labour market. A reduction in the level of benefits increases the gain by getting to work, but at the same time will draw in the direction of lowering the lowest wages in the labour market. That's basically what it's all about. So, if you create a growing crowd of people outside the Danish labour market, who have a very, very poor social benefit, below the poverty line, then you know what happens. Then there will be pressure on the smallest wages, and I believe that is clearly part of the reason for introducing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207130823	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 11 December 2018. Before we start the next question debate, we need to get some technical installations done. So we're gonna take a deep breath in one and a half minutes. Then I think the technical is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207131051	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 11 December 2018. For the explanatory statement, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the subject. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207131113	The Danish press was once blessed with an excellent journalist named Franz von Jessen. He had been invited to a meeting of the radical Foreign Minister P. Munch, along with other important journalists from Parliament's press gallery, for a confidential discussion on a so-called serious occasion, namely the relationship with our large neighbouring country to the south. After the liberation a few years later, Franz von Jessen described what had happened: P. Munch had previously, for the sake of our export industry, urged individual journalists not to mention this or that, but now things had apparently taken a dangerous turn for business and Denmark. Mr Munch pointed out the series of ongoing trade negotiations with Germany, where, as a result of insensitive newspaper articles, things were more difficult and more difficult, directly asking the pressmen present not to mention anything that could weaken the prospects for a successful outcome in trade. As P. Munch put it: "If it is a strict requirement to remain silent and to endure, it would be even more difficult to bear the responsibility for a challenge to the danger. ▪ The Social Democratic radical government's calls to the press to show understanding for Denmark's difficult case had an effect: More and more challenging mention of Germany disappeared from the Danish press, and the journalists who skewed out got problems. The first direct victim was Berlingske Tidende's journalist Nicolai Blædel, who, after persistent warning of the Nazis' behaviour towards Jews under German pressure, was fired as weekly commentator on Danmarks Radio. Franz von Jessen described how P. Munch had performed during the meeting with the journalists and what he had said: "In his kind way and with his sympathetic smile, he also sought to make us understand in a wisely balanced manner that in times like these Danish press had much less use for pens than for felt shoes. Go quietly, speak quietly, sneak silently around the problems, no matter how dangerous they may look, and how close they seem to move us into life. It is therefore wiser, he said, for a country like Denmark to maintain the objective mental attitude, and such a desire is also, I believe, fed by the Danish population. It is of great importance in a dangerous situation that we should not be distrusted elsewhere. I would ask the press to take these views to heart. ▪ As is the case with the modern ambassador of Communist kinase, the German ambassador was also at that time very empathetic in placing complaints with the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on insulting newspaper articles and on who visited Denmark or who stayed here. In addition to angry protests to the government, there were also hidden threats of trade boycotts and harassment against the restaurateurs or others who housed meetings where Germany came under verbal attacks. Today it is also quite normal that the hotels and restaurants that house delegations from Taiwan or Tibet or people from Falun Gong are harassed by the Chinese embassy. For example, this has happened in relation to a restaurant near Elsinore. People from the Chinese Embassy called and briefly informed that if the meeting took place, China would no longer be using that restaurant. Back then, in the 1930s, many leading Danish businessmen were urging that the press now show inclusiveness and understanding of German Nazism. The way in which Denmark is constantly bowing to China and the arrogance with which China acts both to our business people and to the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament is the reason for the Danish People's Party's question today. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for having met and look forward to his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207131507	Thank you for that and we will go straight to the Foreign Minister for his reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207131516	Thank you. I would like to begin by explaining the government's fundamental and very clear position on freedom of expression and assembly. As the government also writes in its recent foreign and security policy strategy, we fight for our liberal values, and we uphold our ideals of freedom. The government wants a world of more democracy and more freedom, including more freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion. This is the case internationally, where the government is fighting for liberal values and freedom both directly in bilateral dialogues and under the auspices of the EU and the UN in particular. The government will use the Danish membership of the UN Human Rights Council from 2019 to 2021 to actively promote our values internationally. But this is also true at home, of course, where the government is aware of safeguarding freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and in this connection the government is clearly opposed to foreign desires to restrict these freedoms in Denmark. We do so because we believe that both freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are fundamental to the development of society and the individual, and because they are fundamental prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy, a democracy which means that voters can make their choices on the basis of free political debate, where ideas and opinions can be broken and defended. For these reasons, the government, together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, has set up a Freedom of Freedom Commission to assess the framework and conditions of freedom of expression. The Commission's work is expected to be completed in the first half of 2019. The results of the work must form the basis for a political debate on the expression of freedom of expression in Denmark, and we look forward to that. Now to the question of Chinese pressure and how the government intends to raise the issue with China. It is clear that China's power, economic strength and ambitions are growing. It will have an increasing impact on global standards and values, and China will put a great deal of pressure on the world's future. We already see that China, with increasing self-confidence and demands for increased influence, has a greater role to play. Denmark has a clear interest in engaging the world's second largest economy and the richest country in the world, a country which, regionally and increasingly, also globally, is trying very actively to exert its influence. China's economic development offers Denmark new opportunities, but development also requires a special effort. We must bear in mind that China's social model is quite different from ours, but precisely because several countries question whether basic human rights are universal, we should not be pale to stand firm when our fundamental values are challenged. And of course we are not, either within Denmark's borders or in international assemblies. In this context, let me stress that the government is constantly raising human rights issues in dialogue with China. This is an integral part of the comprehensive strategic partnership that the government attaches great importance to. This partnership is the result of a joint work programme agreed in a wide range of areas. This gives us a formalised and unique opportunity to travel and discuss sensitive issues with China. Let me mention here that the starting point for the partnership is the Danish ethina policy. It means that Denmark alone recognises the People's Republic of China, and Danish Chinese policy also means that Tibet is part of China. Shifting governments have stressed their clear support for etkina policy, which is also supported by a majority in the Folketing. China's policy has been framed by several parliamentary resolutions, V 47 in 2010, V 70 in 2011, and confirmed in the so-called 2009 verbal note. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity here too to express the Government's continued concern about developments in the human rights situation in China. And, as I said, this is constantly being taken up with the Chinese Government, both bilaterally and under the auspices of the European Union. I do that myself when I visit China, which I did by June of this year at the latest. And this also happened in the context of the EU human rights dialogue with China in July 2018, when Denmark participated as an observer. In addition, at the UN Human Rights Council meeting in September 2018, the EU expressed concern about the situation in Xinjiang and the detention of human rights defenders and lawyers. The EU also called on China to respect freedom of religion and expression and the rights of ethnic minorities. Finally, Denmark made clear recommendations to China during the UN Human Rights Council's recent examination to China in November 2018. The recommendations dealt with the need to improve the situation of ethnic and religious minorities, with the explicit mention, among others, of: Tibet and Xinjiang, the conditions of civil society and the fight against torture. Also within Denmark's borders, we stand firm on our values. The framework and rules of the game in Denmark are basically very clear and well known. The government constantly draws attention to this framework. Of course, the government is also doing so as part of the ongoing diplomatic dialogue we have with other countries and their representatives in this country. And we do so in a way that no one, including China, can or should be in doubt about what we mean. Let me also say that I do not have a clear impression of whether China's pressure should be ever increasing or, for that matter, downright, as the questioners say. In general terms, however, I would like to point out that, as such, there is nothing to prevent an attempt to assert its influence in other countries as long as it takes place within the framework of the law. But at the same time it is clear that wishes for influence and influence in Denmark must not result in any practice contrary to Danish laws and values and to internationally recognised obligations. Let me stress that the government is fully aware of its responsibility to stand firm in relation to whether or not this should happen. The government's position is clear: of course we stand firm if anyone wants to restrict freedom of expression and assembly in Denmark. We simply will not accept that, and that also applies if such a wish comes from a country such as China. At the same time, the government will also encourage all parts of Danish society, including municipalities and the cultural and business community, to do the same: stand firm and reject foreign desires to limit these freedoms in Denmark. It is a common matter and in the interests of everyone that we stand firm and vigilant about the freedoms that form the backbone of a democratic society such as the Danish one. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the experience of successive governments shows that continuing engagement, mutual respect and constructive dialogue, including on difficult issues, is the most viable way to be heard. This is a line that the government will continue to maintain and which is reflected in our proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132241	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132256	Thank you. And thank you for the reports on freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. Does the Minister believe that the government and the authorities in Denmark acted in accordance with the government's basis on the freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, when we saw the much-mentioned case of the Tibetan flags and demonstrators removed because Chinese politicians had to drive on the Danish roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132316	I have no comment to make on that. There is a commission working on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132322	We thank the Minister and then we start the debate. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132337	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We should not be discussing etkina policy today. That is certainly not my intention. That is not the subject of the discussion. The subject is the arrogance with which China, as they themselves express it, enforces etkina policy. They interpret it in such a way that if Denmark, the official Denmark or the private bodies, for example, predates themselves to, for example, Denmark. to speak to or meet with representatives of Tibet or Taiwan, China is furious and is threatening. The threats come, sophisticated enough, never per. e-mail or pr. letter, always by telephone or by personal contact. After all, we remember how it was in 2009, as the Foreign Minister also refers to where it was destroying everything for Danish export companies, that Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen had received the Dalai Lama for a conversation at Marienborg. He does not indulge in politics at all at that time and there were 40 exporting companies who at that time approached the then Secretary of State Per Stig Møller and complained about their distress. Everything with Denmark seemed to have stalled; containers were forgotten on the dock, no new licenses were given, harassment of harassment. China complied in every way with WTO rules. They never leave behind when they threaten or harass. And everyone here knows how it went: As soon as China had got the Danish government to send a verbal note with the text that China demanded, it ran again for Danish exports. Six months later the little mermaid came to Shanghai, and China was so much in the sunshine mood that they also put a few pandas in view. In my school days, a golden bear was rewarded if you had come out freshly washed and behaved and, by the way, sat nicely on the chair. I always did. But nowadays China distributes panda bears as a reward, and we, excuse the expression, laugh it all in us. So enthusiastic are we in Denmark that we are no longer in a bad position in relation to a Communist dictatorship that governments and authorities wholeheartedly disregard the constitution when ordering the police to strike down peaceful demonstrators so that the great Communist leader should not feel violated and not lose face. The last time, the official Denmark, I know, was threatened, was in connection with the Foreign Policy Name's trip to Peking a year ago... it may not have been so well known... where our Chinese hosts had come under the weather with the fact that Tibet's exiled state minister was going to visit the Castle and had asked for a meeting with the Speaker of the Danish Parliament. We received an oral bandbull from a Chinese minister, and as chairman of the jury and party member of the Speaker of Parliament I received instructions from him that I should instruct her to say no to the visit. We who were present were stunned. Now fate would mean that the President of the Danish Parliament would not have the opportunity to meet with the Tibetan in time, and instead I had a meeting with him in my office. And the next day, the State Department received a telephone call from the Chinese embassy... an angry protest that I had had the meeting. It was just a phone call, as it always is. As mentioned, China never leaves any trace when threatening or harassing. That's how they operate; it's their way. They're flexible, they're clever, they're cynical, just like the German government was in the 1930s. With elegance and with a very sophisticated cynicism, the Communist regime has got Denmark's arm upside down. China rules. I shall, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, unfortunately no more people thought they would join in making the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament condemns the unconstitutional abuses of peaceful demonstrators in the context of high-ranking Chinese visits to Denmark. The Danish Parliament invites the Foreign Minister to inform the Chinese authorities that the official Denmark as well as the Danish business community as well as Danish cultural institutions will no longer bow to or accept Chinese harassment or threats in connection with foreign visitors' visits to Denmark. • V 35). I would also like to conclude by saying that I know that my colleagues who are here have received a number of examples from the chairman of the Tibet Committee in the way it works in relation to Tibet. So you're familiar with the things I don't have to go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132815	The proposed adoption will be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132824	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can confirm the progress made in Beijing; I too was and was very surprised. I very much share a number of Mr. Søren Espersen's observations about Chinese behavior around the world, but I still have a question, because you can run quite the same criticism in relation to Russia. Russia is similarly trying to destabilise our part of the world and has done so around the brexite vote in Britain, in the Swedish election campaign, and the FE expects it to be done in the Danish election campaign. I personally am convinced that Russia had a hand in this criticism of the UN Global Compact, which we discussed the other day. Will Mr. Søren Espersen deliver the same criticism of Russia? Can we expect the Danish People's Party to conduct a similar enquiry debate on Russia; do we get from the Krabash in the same way that we have heard about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132921	But I think so, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says it's about something a little different. I have no examples of Russia asking a restaurant not to receive visits from Ukraine. Nor do I believe that Russia has ever said who the Danish Government might meet with and who it was not allowed to meet with. On the other hand, I agree that pressure is also being exerted by Russia, but in the game we are talking about here I do not think there is any particular comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132955	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207132958	I don't know that either. What I know is that Russia's ambassador has threatened nuclear weapons directly. It may in fact be a little worse, and I believe that there is reason enough to take up the criticism. The interesting thing is that at the time the Danish People's Party's rapporteur congratulated Russia all the time and thought that Russia should be closer to us. That is why one must take the view that there is such a certain double standard behind the Danish People's Party's policy here. As I have said, I fully share the criticism of China, but I also expect that the Danish People's Party will fluctuate in the same way in relation to Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133043	Well, I think it's irrelevant in this context. I will give Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is right in saying that there is pressure on the Russian side, including in the case of the use of nuclear weapons against our fleet in the Baltic Sea. That wasn't very nice. That's awful. That's awful. But can we not just discuss China? I would like to come back and discuss Russia, because I fully agree with the pressure that is going on; it is also being fought against both in the Defence Intelligence Service and what else is going on. I'm sorry! But I don't think it's relevant. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133116	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133133	Thank you for that and thank you for really raising the debate. I think it is extremely relevant. Now a few examples have been mentioned, but I do not think that there can be so much doubt that Chinese intimidation is taking place in Denmark, that is, Radio24syv and other media have demonstrated how one has tried to influence which films should be shown at a film festival, what prizes should be awarded, officials from the City of Copenhagen, after Chinese pressure, have caused Tibetan flags to be removed from a participant's jacket at an event, etc. etc., we have the big tibet case. What I think is the interesting question is: is this surprising, or is it not surprising? Perhaps it is a piece in an overall picture, for it is the fact that China is the growing power, cultural, political, military and economic. China is rapidly moving from being a great power in the world to becoming the world's second superpower. We see it with various initiatives. We see it very directly with the so-called Belt & Road initiative, where the Chinese spend $1,000 billion, which in comparison is roughly equivalent to what the Americans used in Marshall aid in Europe, to promote a wide range of infrastructure projects, ports, motorways, dams, oil pipelines, lightning trains, etc., in many, many countries, regardless of what we do when the international community invests, namely sustainability, and regardless of whether there is corruption linked to the projects that you invest in, etc., and in a way that directly and indirectly influences the countries in which you invest. It is long-term, it is continuous and it is extremely effective. At the same time, it must also be said that we are seeing a China that modernises their defences and raises their defence budgets considerably. From 2000 until 2017, according to Defence Intelligence, Chinese defence budgets have increased significantly. So we see a China that appears on the world stage in a completely different way, and what is happening in Denmark may in fact reflect some of the cultural, political influence, the will to put its power through. After all, it is an expression of the fact that there are some fundamental values that confront each other. Our Western values face a completely different set of values, such as the fact that China has a one-stringed and completely powerful management style that faces our belief in democracy and the division of power. It is, moreover, in an international context, like Russia, a belief in the right of the strong and the most brutal to a world that must stand on the rule of law, that is to say it is a contradiction to Western values of democracy and human rights, which is, of course, part of what is also part of the question debate today. So in reality, if we take this up higher, we may now see that there are two world societies, two world views, two that are moving towards some kind of confrontation that we have to deal with. It's so standing on that thing with that and I think that was one of the things that we experienced in Foreign Policy Name on the joint trip that we had to China to the world view where the party is the most important. Nothing over, nothing beside the Communist Party, and that means that the one who believes and perhaps the slightly naive hope we have had that when the Chinese got richer, they probably developed into a democracy, not going to happen. What we saw was that it's not gonna happen. It is the party of everything else, and so is it, and that is also one of the reasons why we have the debate today, one united kingdom. The kingdom in the middle, carried by its own interests, including, of course, extensive Tibet and extensive Taiwan, comprehensive will to put its positions through in neighbouring countries. Faced with this, as the Foreign Minister also said, is our interest in maintaining trade relations with China, our strategic partnership agreement, critical dialogue, constructive dialogue, when we have the opportunity to do so, discuss human rights and so on, all of which are sensible. But what I think is the appeal is that Denmark needs a new and more sober China policy, which in reality is that China has growing power culturally, politically, economically and militarily, and we need to find out, and we need to find our foothold for that. That is, in fact, what lies in the proposal for adoption that I am going to read out now, and thank God it is in the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament that the proposal for adoption can be read out after the end of the speaking time. So I'll take my time. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption which reads as follows: proposals for adoption Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are fundamental prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy and for the development of society and the individual. They are fundamental to a democratic form of government in which voters can make their choices on the basis of a free political debate. The Folketing urges the government to continue to uphold freedom of expression and assembly, including rejecting foreign desires to limit these freedoms in Denmark. The Folketing attaches great importance to the strategic partnership with China, including close cooperation and equal dialogue based on mutual respect. Human rights are an integral part of this partnership and in Denmark's dialogue with China, and the Folketing supports that the Government's continued concern about the human rights situation in China is constantly addressed with the Chinese Government, both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue. The Folketing urges the government, together with like-minded countries, to consider the consequences of China's growing political, economic and military power and how the West should react to this. V 36).
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133807	Thank you. This is then part of the further debate. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133816	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When Mr. Nick Hækkerup says that China is on its way to becoming one of the world's greatest powers, economic and military, etc., is it not time that we also said: okay, so maybe we should also speak clearly? We must demand that the 2009 verbal note be translated into Danish and that it be said to the Danish people: In the future, it will not happen that Hu Jintao, who visited us in 2012, or other leaders will be secured from seeing a Tibetan flag in Denmark, or ensured against some demonstrators making non-Chinese statements. Is that not part of the policy advocated by the rapporteur? These are at least two cases which have been relevant in our lifetime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207133916	Of course, on our own account we must stand firm that intimidation must not take place. What I was trying to say in my reply is that we are taking a look and finding that, if it is true, as I say, China is developing into a superpower, culturally, economically, politically, militaryly, etc. Because this is not just a pressure that Denmark is experiencing. After all, this is a pressure that every country that has relations with the Chinese is experiencing. The Chinese are also on the diplomatic front quite advanced in using various tools to ensure that their influence penetrates. It is clear that if you just look at these very important and large, but after all concentrated Danish cases, you can of course mean nothing but that you should not be intimidated in this way. Well, no one can.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134014	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134018	But the verbal note was made under a bourgeois government, which is not very clear about things. We have had a special debate in the Danish Parliament on precisely the verbal note, where no word was given that it should be translated. And Hu Jintao visited Denmark in the time of the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government. After all, explanations were given at that time, including from Mr. Nick Hækkerup's colleagues in the government that it was probably necessary in such a situation. Does this mean that we do not see this in the future in a future social democratic government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134054	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134057	We can take the debate that way. I really believe that if we are to take the debate constructively, we must start by seeing that the world has changed. That's kind of what I was trying to do. My whole message was that the perception of China as the cute pandaland populated alone by friendly people, who only want everyone else well, is part of history. But there is also just a story about a superpower that is coming and that doesn't put up with anything. And we have to deal with how we, standing on our values, arrange ourselves with the superpower so that, in my opinion, we can continue to maintain Western values as prevailing in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134135	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134138	I would say that the verbal note at that time actually received approval from all parties in the Danish Parliament, except Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti. It was one of those places where the Secretary of State would not act on his own. This has now begun to be done in a large way. But he invited all the parties one by one, and they said yes to it. So there was a great deal of support, except for the two parties I mentioned. In fact, I would have liked to have seen in advance the proposal for adoption put forward by a large majority. I haven't seen it. It sounds very reasonable at first to have tried to get something together so that it upsets me a little. But when we look at the Danish People's Party's proposal, which actually simply says that the Foreign Minister is invited to inform the Chinese authorities that official Denmark as well as Danish professions and Danish cultural institutions will no longer bow to accepting Chinese harassment or threats in connection with foreign visitors' visits to Denmark, could the Social Democracy have signed on to this, or is it a wrong way of formulating it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134247	The message is right. So in this way we agree, and I shall be the first to regret that the Danish People's Party has not been invited into this text of adoption that we are putting forward now without pinging out what happened and how the process has been. The first time I received the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption, I actually wrote back that some of what is very important to me and to the Social Democrats is precisely the point of addressing China's power, etc. That is why the most important thing for me is that this is always the case with these texts, which are the last two lines of the text, namely, where we say that the Folketing calls on the government, together with like-minded countries, to consider the consequences of China's growing economic, political and military power, and how the West should deal with it. That's really what matters to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134343	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134345	Thank you for your regret. It's what it is. Now there's these pandas we've been looking forward to. There you have to assume and we have also been told that high-ranking Chinese will be present to present these pandas when they occupy the Copenhagen zoo. Is it also the view of the Social Democrats that, on that occasion, there are no police who try to take flags away from anyone or cut off land or prevent sight from the Chinese car, so that you are not offended by these things? I also expect that, as a matter of course, in relation to what has been discussed, social democracy will demand and demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134438	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134449	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen couldn't be here today, so you'll have to settle for my company. I'll do my best to replace it. I should like to begin by saying that this is, of course, a very important debate that we have here today. It is important that we can discuss Denmark's relationship with the world's great powers. It is also important that we work together to ensure that we safeguard the ideals of freedom which are the cornerstones of our society. I therefore appreciate the question about the relationship between Denmark and China, which I would be happy to elaborate on behalf of my party, the Left. Thucydid, the Greek historian, writes about the Peloponnesian war in which an established power is challenged by a new power: the new Athens and the old power, Sparta, and it unfortunately ends with a civil war that destroys the entire Mediterranean world at that time. The teaching of Thucydid is that when the established power is challenged by new power, it often creates a very great turmoil in the world, and that is what I think we are witnessing now and have been witnessing for a long time. China's growth on the world stage means that in our time we will be remembered for how we handled, that there was a new power that went to be a regional power, as we have seen for many years putting pressure on its surroundings all that it can, and which is now stepping in more and more and putting pressure further and further away on nations far from its own shores. This is something we will be remembered for how we will do it. A large number of policies in this area have all been policies • from the American side they had the Pacific Pivot or Trans-Pacific Partnership who has been about how we handle a China in growth that means more and more in weight on the international stage. In this respect, it is of course an important observation to make that we are facing a growth of a power that is very different from that of the West and the Denmark we represent, and it should not prevent good cooperation, but it is a challenge to deal with a China that is so different in many ways in terms of the values we see as self-evident. Basic human rights must be guaranteed in China, and it is important that we, as a country, stand together with other countries in order to put maximum pressure on China. I am not sure that China must be contained, but I am convinced that China must be activated and made what Robert Zoellick in his time called an active and committed partner in an international community understood that it was a partner who accepted the world order and the values on which the international world order is based. We can do that in many places. We can do this via the United Nations, as the Secretary of State mentioned. We can do it via the European Union, and we can of course do it in direct dialogue between Denmark and China. However, I have no doubt at all that this dialogue is most important when we come together with many other countries. Denmark has a strategic partnership with China. It is a partnership that we must safeguard. It has been a priority for many Danish governments, changing Danish governments, and the partnership has formed Denmark's long-standing ethina policy, and it is supporting it. This means that Denmark alone recognises the People's Republic of China, and Tibet is therefore part of China, which is a view shared by changing Danish governments. In relation to Taiwan, we have a close, solid cultural and extended economic partnership, which we have developed more and more over the last 35 years, and we want Taiwan to be naturally involved in international cooperation within the framework of the etkina policy. Nor should there be any doubt that China's interest in activities in the Arctic means that the kingdom community is being challenged by China's path from being a regional power to something quite different. I myself was very personally surprised when China announced that they were an Arctic nation. I had to look at a globe and had a little difficulty understanding why they were, but you can see from their policy that this is how they think. Shortly thereafter came the first American Arctic strategy, also prompted by the same. We are rightly sceptical about Chinese investment in Greenland's infrastructure and must be. We must safeguard our precious ideals, and in the Left it is important to safeguard the ideals on which our society is built.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207134957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135001	Now that the government will wait to answer the question of whether it was right or wrong that demonstrators were prevented from showing the Tibetan flag when Hu Jintao was visiting, I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is a member of the Left, whether he thinks it is right or wrong that it happened in 2012. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not think that it is time for us to sweep our own door before we go out into the world and demand something of others with us, and that we then translate the verbal note so that we have reported out clearly and so that there is no doubt about the position which, in other contexts, is being cemented quite hard, including on the part of the Left, so that we have to stand firm on a number of principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135044	It is always regrettable when one can question whether there is freedom of expression in Denmark, and I am pleased that there is a Commission working on that issue to have it drilled out here. I never hope to see this happen again on Danish soil.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135059	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Juhl the word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135105	I expected the rapporteur to reply to the second question as well. That's why I just waited. What about the verbal note? Shouldn't we have it in place, too? Now I understand on the Left that they thought it was wrong in 2012 to do those things by the authorities, and I am quite happy with that. And if the rapporteur does not want to reply to this with the verbal note, then I would like to ask whether the policy of etkina does not allow us to receive official representatives from Tibet, that is to say that we must somehow subject ourselves to the etkina policy, so that it is always China and only China that officially represents the territories. And what does that mean for human rights, for example? Tibet?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135150	There are several questions in it. I'm sorry I didn't answer the verbal note. I would like to refer to the debate that has been held in the past on the verbal note. I actually share many of the messages contained in it, but I am also absolutely convinced that we will best solve this problem with other countries and not by going alone in a way where we will have a conflict with China that we cannot deal with without a partnership with others in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135209	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135214	Thank you. We agree. I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that, as was said, China's power is, of course, increasing and that we have different values. What is my idea of calling this today is precisely to find out: why should we bow to their values while I could not imagine it the other way around? Well, that's the thing. As regards the comparison I made with what is happening now, I should like to ask what took place in Denmark in the 1930s in relation to Germany: can the rapporteur of the Left follow that comparison? Or is there nothing at all in it that resonates when we talk about trade with a large country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135300	My whole point about referring to Thucydid in my introduction was precisely that of saying that when you have powers that become much more powerful economically, culturally and also militaryly, it will push small states like us, and that in this situation small states like us will benefit from strong international cooperation. So support the American policy of embedding China, supporting the initiatives that lie in creating an economic community outside China, such as China. Trans-Pacific Partnership and other things, even if we ourselves are not directly involved in it, because Denmark alone cannot contain China, but we can do so together with other nations, so that the pressure that is on our values is not one we cannot resist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135343	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135346	But this has to do with who we meet here in Denmark, on Danish soil, without any Chinese being present. It has to do with whether we may have a meeting at a restaurant with some from Taiwan or whether that restaurant is threatened afterwards. That's what this is all about. It has nothing to do with etkina policy or anything to do with it. It's a question of how they do here. Norway stood firm, for eight years they were not as wrong as we were at home, that they made verbal notes or rather wrote verbal notes that Communist China had written. Is there anything analog there? Is Norway not more genuine and admirable than we did?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135429	Now there is actually a lot to learn about Norway, and Mr. Søren Espersen himself pointed to a reference back from the 1930s, for during that period there was also a Norwegian stamina that we could have learned a lot from. And I would like to repeat that I still feel this way about Norway; I think we can continue to learn a great deal from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135444	Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135449	Thank you. I sense from the rapporteur that the basic analysis of the fact that we have a current superpower and a future superpower facing each other with different values is the same one that I tried to describe as well. And that, of course, gives us reason to say: What are we doing on our side? I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he shares my concern about the position of the United States on this issue so far and about the way in which the United States acts in foreign policy with regard not only to China but to maintaining Western values.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135533	My reading of many years of American foreign policy from 2006 onwards was that one agreed on what was called Pacific Pivot, that is to say that one wanted to create a new Asia strategy which sought to engage China more closely, but also made a clear expectation of the Chinese and contained them both economically and militarily in a way that showed them that they could get richer, but that they would find it difficult to challenge the ruling world order. The fact that there is no longer that support and that there is a President who has terminated TPP cooperation is very worrying to me. And as a small state that benefits from an order that is in as much calm as possible, especially when you think about how much of the Chinese trade is being carried on Danish ships and other things, we are very exposed in this conflict, and I hope and wish that there will soon be a US with a clear strategy in this area again. That's something I share with Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135634	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135638	I share the hope, but if the United States chooses this more isolated position, does the rapporteur think that the European Union should lift where the United States does not promise at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135657	Yeah. I am absolutely convinced that the order must be that in the case that we cannot use the American strategy in this area, which we supported when it came first in the bush and very clearly in the Obama years, it is the transition, in other words the EU-China dialogue, that is the most important thing, but of course the forum we have must also be used in the UN. It is also a good forum for this; not so concrete politically, but more as a forum for dialogue, where we address the issues raised by nations that are becoming more powerful on the international stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135732	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207135745	China's path to becoming an economic, cultural and military superpower is not new. If you think that has happened here in the last few months or in the last few years, you have closed your eyes to developments in, for example. Africa has closed its eyes to developments in many parts of the world. That is why it is perhaps just as much an example of the fact that changing governments have, after all, had a rather handful attitude to express their opinion directly to China, precisely because China has been a great power for many years. Nor is the issue of Tibet new. We have discussed this in this Chamber many times, and it has also been discussed before I even came to parliament. Fortunately, therefore, I also believe that the traditional parties of government are in the process of weakening, and I hope that this will also be reflected in a new practice, and that there will also be indications of this when both Mr Giscard d'Estaing and Mr Giscard d'Estaing are involved. Nick Hækkerup and the Left rapporteur speaks out. For Enhedslisten, it's pretty simple to talk about these things. Firstly, respect for human rights is essential and must always be something we defend, even when there are major commercial interests at stake. Secondly, the repression of demonstrators and democratic rights we have seen in Denmark, for example. The case of the Tibet flag, which was removed during a Chinese state visit, etc., is quite unacceptable. In this connection, I would like to acknowledge the helpful note that we have received from the Tibet Support Committee. I think it is important that we also try to formulate a clear position which a government can stand up to say it supports, instead of saying that there is now a committee and then it cannot have a position on it. That is wrong of a government in my opinion. Thirdly, the Danish authorities must, i.e.: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the police, the municipality, etc. It does not have to be superpowers, it may also be other countries. That's all we think there is to say on this subject. It is good to have it discussed, but there is not much really new in it. We are proposing, together with the alternative, a text for adoption, but before I read it I would like to say that I am rather annoyed that we do not have a Rules of Procedure allowing amendments to be tabled for adoption. Perhaps we would then be able to bring together a text for adoption. We could, too, if we spent a little more time preparing ourselves for such texts, and then perhaps contact would be a little more systematic. It will go again here because some of the wordings are similar to those in the other proposals for adoption. So, on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I have the honour to present the following: proposals for adoption Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are fundamental prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy and for the development of society and the individual. They are fundamental to a democratic form of government in which voters can make their choices on the basis of a free political debate. The Folketing therefore urges the government to safeguard freedom of expression and assembly, including rejecting foreign desires to limit these freedoms in Denmark. The Folketing condemns the unconstitutional attacks on peaceful demonstrators during high-level Chinese visits to Denmark. The Danish Parliament supports that concern about the human rights situation in China is constantly raised with the Chinese Government both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue, and calls on the government to consider China's growing investment in other countries' infrastructure and what this will have to do with Denmark. • V 37). The latter, of course, is also an indirect reference to the debate that is taking place, for example. in Greenland at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140154	Thank you for that, and the proposal for adoption is, of course, part of the further debate. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140159	Now there have been some rapporteurs up and I think that all the rapporteurs who come up will condemn Chinese intimidation and the Chinese attempt to influence Danish authorities, be it municipalities or so. Does the rapporteur think that, in our relations with China, we also have a concern to take into account Danish trade with China? Does the rapporteur think that it is legitimate to say that the trade we have with China must in some way be included in the equation when we find our relationship with China, because there are, after all, a lot of jobs coming from trade that bring prosperity to people who give tax dollars to the welfare we provide in this country? Or does the rapporteur think that the trade relationship is irrelevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140257	The trade relationship is not unimportant, but human rights and the right to unite and express themselves are of prime importance. They always will. But there are other considerations that must also be taken into account when working with other countries. Could we, for example, do this? In a dialogue with the Chinese, I think that would be extremely beneficial. If, through dialogue with the Chinese, we could promote the achievement of the UN's global goals, I think that would be very sensible. If you could make binding agreements that you invested together in those areas, that would be very good for the whole world. Could we find a slightly more humane and common approach to aid to third world countries, for example. Africa, I think, would be quite reasonable. But we must never neglect human rights and we must never fail to point them out just to get a trade agreement. There we have to say: this may well cost trade, but there is nothing to do about it; that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140358	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140401	So trade is a criterion that is relevant in relation to China, and I heard a lot about how trade should not be weighed in. Can the rapporteur say a little about how considerations of trade, of welfare, of prosperity, of jobs for ordinary people should be weighed in? So not everything where it doesn't matter, but how people's welfare is actually to be weighed in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140432	I can do that, and I can also say more than there is time here. But one example is the blockade or boycott we have made against Russia. It does not affect the rich in Russia, and that is why I have questioned whether it was the right form. If the Chinese come and say that they want to remove demonstrators in Denmark, otherwise they will reduce trade, then I would say that every minister is obliged to say: we are not doing that here; you must come again when you respect that here in the country it is we who decide how much must be said; and you must also respect that we tell you in a nice and proper way that your human rights are not doing very well. It could cost trade, and we also know from the Rusland case that it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140514	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207140529	Thank you for the floor. History isn't over. Liberal democracy is not victorious and looks at eternity in the belief that the world spirit has finally manifested itself in well-functioning multilateral organisations. Many people thought so 10-20 years ago, but we now know that it was a misunderstanding. Clearly, Russia does not recognise national sovereignty as a principle. Obviously, Turkey does not. Iran and other Islamist regimes are also on the team that does not recognise national sovereignty. And neither does China. That is, of course, at the heart of what we are discussing, in other words how we should protect national sovereignty in the age in which we live and how we should deal with it. It is a very difficult question, which even from a Danish perspective extends across the globe. In March, I was named on the Philippine island of Paluva. It is the westernmost island of the Philippines, and it is located to the part of the South China Sea that is locally known as the Western Philippine Sea. There I had the opportunity to speak to the commander of the Western Command of the Philippines, a general named Rozzano Briguez, and I asked him if there is freedom to sail in the South China Sea, because it is important to us in Denmark because we have the sixth largest merchant fleet in the world. He said: yes, it is there because the U.S. Navy patrols the waters. That is precisely the crux of what we are discussing today, namely that there is no freedom to sail on the South China Sea unless we can count on our being ally with the United States. In fact, it is also a kind of nuclear umbrella with some kind of maritime protection that we are under. At the heart of this is what several rapporteurs have been saying: China has been a superpower for a long time, it has been a regional power for a long time, but is now a superpower with greater and greater power everywhere in the world. And China confronts the existing world order wherever you come forward. The ruling of the International Court of Justice is ignored in 2014 and claims, for example. Conscious that the South China Sea is Chinese territorial waters. Economic influence is exercised everywhere in the world and economic influence is used as a springboard to exert political influence. This is a strategy which the Danish Government is well aware of and which, among other things, is. Mr. Mads Fuglede has just said that this is a strategy which has already forced the Danish Government to respond quite specifically. I welcome the proposal for adoption that we have reached and I regret that I have not included the Danish People's Party in it. I've done something that was a miscalculation, because I saw the first play, and then I saw what should we say about the game that I could, like, get the mandate for myself. And I thought that the negotiating distance was a little too long, but perhaps it hasn't been yet. I'm sorry. However, I think it is a good idea that, within the framework of the multilateral organisations of which we are members, we are very aware of those countries which are radically trying to make the geopolitical order of changing the existing rules of the game. That is the essence of the proposal for adoption, which is a majority behind it. It is not just China, but it is China that we are discussing today. But it is also, as I have mentioned, Russia, Turkey, Iran and the Gulf States. National sovereignty is something that has been challenged today. Quite realistically, both the dialogue with China and the criticism of China, as well as the issues raised by the Danish People's Party, which the question relates to, are something that we are most decisively undertaking through the European Union, because it is an advantage for a small state to enter into multilateral organisations. But there is a thought work that we should be doing here in Denmark, and it is both in the Folketing that we are doing now and in the Counsel, and the EEAS and other good forces can contribute, because the very principle of sovereignty is so pressed. I can use the last part of the speaking time to say as a service information that I was present in the room when Mr. Søren Espersen was given a sermon by Deputy Secretary of State Mr. Wang Chao on etkina policy. And if anyone questions the rapporteur's speech, I have pictures that can be displayed at any time it may be desired. I thank the Danish People's Party very much for raising this necessary debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141042	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141046	I accept the regret that was expressed in relation to the text. I am just surprised that the Liberal Alliance does not know that the texts before us do not always end up as they were when we have been at the negotiating table, and it might well have happened in a slightly different way. I don't mean to be sarcastic or evil here, but I'm just noticing it. I would like to take up what Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned the issue of dealing with everyone and the conditions for trade. I think that this is an extremely interesting discussion which I would really like the rapporteur to take a closer look at. Should the state do anything at all? After all, we had a similar situation with Saudi Arabia in connection with the Mohammed drawings, where I think the government made a completely different right decision, but incidentally also was criticised from near and far, also in the Folketing, because they did so. I would like the rapporteur, like him, to be able to spread it about the conditions for a little more action. How much should we accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141149	It may well be that my answer is simply due to my ignorance, but I believe that we in Denmark do not really have a comprehensive approach to how we protect the rights that citizens have under the Constitution, i.e. in Denmark. freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is, of course, something we are in favour of, but to be perfectly honest, there is a Commission working on the freedom of expression of demonstrators, and there has been a certain inconsistency from which I naturally hope we can work away from, because it has to be said that it has been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141236	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141240	However, we have dealt with China in a completely different way than we have dealt with all other states. If you even see so many years later these pictures from the Tibetan flag story here in Copenhagen, i.e. how this young girl and her friend were taken away from their flags and things like that, then there is no one in this Chamber who is in any doubt that it is wrong, because they were no danger. It was simply the visual, it was not allowed to be there. I just think that we have bowed to China in a way that we could never dream of doing to other states, even our very nearest ally. If an American president came to Copenhagen, who could dream that the Ministry would lay down rules that this should not be demonstrated. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141328	I certainly think that Mr. Søren Espersen has a point in that there is some exceptionalism in relation to China. Whether it goes all the way back to a then prime minister, who had a high intellectual conversation with Mao Zedong, or whatever the reason for that, I do not know, but there is an exceptionalism. I think we can agree on that in an intellectual way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141351	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more comments. Yes, there is, sir. Christian Juhl came on just at the last minute. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141401	Thank you. I'm both old and slow and everything else. Laughter I would like to hear the rapporteur a little more clearly: can the rapporteur imagine that it would cost business to have a slightly sharper attitude towards China and that, if we talk a little more clearly to them about human rights and what conditions there are for being in Denmark, it could cost a few orders here and there, and that it must be the price in some situations where it is a question of sticking to some human rights principles and also the right to speak up against trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141439	I'm not saying this to be sarcastic, but I'm not quite sure I understand the question. What is my basic view is that, of course, some sort of balance has to be struck when it comes to keeping the tab high, and then taking very pragmatic account of jobs and economic growth, etc. You don't have to lift the tab so high that you can't reach the ground. I think that is what the left's old disagreement with the Socialists is basically based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141512	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141516	That is a completely different question. It was because the Social Democrats were foot-timing, and that's no good. I just think that in the case where we are taking action against Russia, we are doing so with open eyes, and it has cost agriculture a great deal of money. One might ask whether we are hitting the right ones in Russia, that is quite another issue, but we have done so. The Danish Government has decided this together with European governments and it costs Danish agricultural exports. Is it not reasonable to say that we have to have a policy which has principles that can also cost business, that they do something, as well as it costs all of us to do something? I think that the rapporteur answers very vaguely to the question which Mr. Søren Espersen has asked, and what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141559	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141601	In other words, without any controversy, it is a very, very difficult balance that has to be taken, because I do not think it is the case on the flat hand to make a decision that costs a very, very large number of jobs. Of course, a totally intolerable provocative situation may arise, as it is with Russia, but I certainly do not think that this is something that can be decided without further ado.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141632	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141637	I have to say that that answer also puzzled me a little and worries me a little. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Henrik Dahl believes that the Constitution cannot come into play. It is, of course, what has been the discussion here lately in Copenhagen that the rights of the Constitution and the constitution itself stand as something completely firm and cannot be sold for the sale of various goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141708	Now that is not what was specifically asked about. But of course the Constitution must be defended, that is clear. That was also what was behind Muhammad's drawings... that here we were right in the vicinity of the Constitution. Now we have to see what the Tibet Commission is achieving and then we have to deal with it. But it is clear that all politicians' first and most distinguished task is, of course, to stand guard over the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141736	I don't think there were any more questions. Then we thank the rapporteur, Henrik Dahl, and then we move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207141755	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the alternative foreign policy rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, cannot be here today, so it has become my task and pleasure to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate on China and Denmark's relationship with China. I have to say, before I heard Mr. Nick Hækkerup read out this proposal for adoption, I had not seen it, nor had I seen it before it was distributed in this Chamber, which of course has a little impact on the speech I have written. I just have to say that we have a saying: two souls, one thought in English, it is even more accurate: Great minds think alike. So our proposal for adoption is in many ways completely identical to the proposal for adoption which has now been presented by a large majority of this House. I would say, then, that the wording that is completely identical is the call to safeguard freedom of expression and assembly, to reject foreign desires to restrict these freedoms in Denmark and to point out that freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are the fundamental prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy, for the development of society and the individual, and that they are fundamental to a democratic form of government in which voters can make their choices on the basis of a free political debate. Here the two proposals for adoption are completely identical. That is why it will also be possible to see that the alternative will in all likelihood vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward here. Where our proposal differs slightly from the government's proposal, there is where it is about Tibet and where China has often used its commercial muscles to force other countries, including Denmark, to de facto recognise China's annexation of Tibet. Unfortunately, in Denmark, we did not resist the pressure when the Danish police removed demonstrators and took their tibet flag so as not to bother China's head of state when he was visiting. That is why we are very pleased that the Tibet Commission has been reinstated. From the point of view of the alternative, we have been pushing for a long time to get to the bottom of the Tibetan case. That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we also ask Parliament to condemn the unconstitutional attacks on peaceful demonstrators, and we support the concern about the human rights situation in China and ask that it be kept under constant review with the Chinese Government, both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue, and also, of course, that the government be required to consider China's growing investment in other countries' infrastructure, and what this will have to do with Denmark. In the alternative, we are very aware that Danish companies are experiencing increasing pressure. Here, Danish authorities should be helpful and ensure that our companies are actually able to withstand the pressure so that they can insist on respecting human rights and universal values. As a small country, Denmark has a very high interest in a rule-based international cooperation. We are simply dependent on the large countries not merely being able to sneak the small ones, as we often see them. More than ever, we need to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the world and, at the same time, remember that what human rights ultimately protects are all people and not the states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142201	Thank you. There is one comment, and it is from Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142209	I have just asked for the floor because, for the sake of good order, I would like to say that the proposal made by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nick Hækkerup read out a few days ago, has been in mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's inbox and why it has not gone further than that, I do not really know anything about it, because I am not interfering in the internal workflows of the Alternative. But there it can be found, if you are interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142237	Of course, I'm sorry about that. Well, I wrote to Rasmus and asked why I hadn't gotten it, and then he said he hadn't gotten it. He must have missed it somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142244	We will sort this out in some way internally. But we thank you very much for your apologies, sir. Henrik Dahl has asked for the floor again. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142256	It may be that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has not received the proposal, but he has certainly sent me an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142307	Okay. I'll have to deal with that internally with Rasmus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142311	Then we consider it to be settled. Thank you. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142322	I think that we must all forgive other rapporteurs for their lack of overview in the inboxes. Personally, I would like to be forgiven by a great many, because it is extensive. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. It is really profoundly relevant. Canada's arrest of the financial director of the Chinese technology giant Huawei yesterday also highlights the fact that this is a global debate that is happening a great deal, not only is it a Danish debate. The same applies, of course, to what several rapporteurs have also mentioned: the many large-scale Chinese investments in a number of European countries where the European Union, perhaps finally, has also raised a flag. There are now clear rules coming through the decision-making channels. I know that the ambassadors should decide on Wednesday whether this is going through the European Parliament now with rules to curb what we might call the naivety of the past one can put a lot of words on China's money and influence in Europe. On the whole, we have to say clearly, as several rapporteurs have said, that it is going the wrong way in relation to human rights in China. Critical dialogue must be applied and become what it does not solve everything, but the alternative of an isolated dictatorship excludes any form of dialogue. So that is the work that needs to be done at all levels, with ever greater interaction with citizens from below and then continuous pressure from above. We therefore consider it essential to bring the European Union together in this area, both on critical dialogue and on human rights requirements. It has the greatest effect, it is the EU's total bnp that really does something bigger than that of the United States. But there are also examples that Denmark has actually achieved quite significant influence through critical dialogue. The former director of the Institute of Human Rights achieved some maturation of the Chinese legal system, the energy cooperation that has been running with China for a number of years and has moved significantly on the climate agenda. That is where it is a critical dialogue, and then there is the field that is perhaps the most fundamental of this debate and where Denmark must say very clearly and clearly from: Chinese desire for influence on Danish territory. In many other contexts China itself demands that other countries do not interfere in their affairs, and if that is the approach, China should certainly not interfere in internal Danish affairs either. And it is clear that there are examples of Tibet cases where someone in Denmark has at least gone too far to please China on Danish soil. I can only say that I look very much forward to that matter being fully resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142721	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it was a good one. But it was as if it were finally complacent, in other words that it was almost the case that we should accept that we should not interfere in human rights abuses in China. And I believe that we also have a duty to do so. So, I personally feel that all that talk about etkina politics is wrong, because I would like to fight for Tibetans to have some form of autonomy or, if they so wish, independence. And I'd like to say that loud and clear, even if I meet a Chinese. In any case, I would like to say directly that I would like to interfere in the fact that the Chinese are violating human rights in Tibet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142756	I can only agree with that. I do not consider human rights to be an internal matter, but a global issue. That is why they must apply to all human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142806	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142809	Therefore, we must also say in return that if Denmark is to be a country that violates human rights, the Chinese should be warmly welcome to help us improve it. But at least they should not start pointing out that we must break them for their sake. That is where I think we should distinguish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142825	No one should ever be able to break human rights without being strongly criticised and, I hope, sanctioned for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142837	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207142851	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. I think many good and wise things have been said in the past in the debate, and I shall try to avoid repeating them. However, I would like to stress that the critical tone that has been to Chinese development has been across the board with virtually everyone, and I think that is actually very interesting, and it is quite justified to have the critical approach to what is happening in China. There is no doubt that major changes are taking place both within China and also in Chinese foreign policy. Xi Jinping strengthens his personal authority, and there is no doubt that his ambition is to get such about the same status that President Mao had at the time, that is to say to become a strong dictator who has outmaneuvered all his competitors, all his rivals, and does so quite consistently with negative consequences for democracy that there has not been much of, but there is, after all, a discussion in China, for example. on the Internet with Internet censorship and with a surveillance society which in some ways is actually quite creepy. A few years ago there was a theory that China was the world's factory, as was said. We were the ones who thought up the ideas, designed and made the smart things where the Chinese just did, if I may say so, more primitive things. It's turned around completely. China is, after all, at the forefront of artificial intelligence and technological development; they are a front country in those areas and use it offensively in order to maintain internal power, and that is the kind of creepy thing that we can see there and which will also have as a consequence that China will have a tremendous influence in this area globally, which we must be aware of. But China's influence is also completely cash. As I said earlier and as others have said, we had quite tough comments when we were sitting in Beijing. I had to pray plainly and had not experienced such things before. So blatantly rude remarks to a delegation that was involved were really cross-border. I was also in the Philippines with the name this spring and can confirm from the conversations we had down there how the Chinese in the South China Sea act as bullies in relation to the Philippines, vis-à-vis Vietnam, vis-à-vis the whole area, which they clearly believe is their sphere of influence and where they believe they can do whatever they want. This is a problem for that area, but in addition, they are trying to expand that influence globally through their various projects. So we need to take this seriously and also maintain a critical distance to it, and I think that this text of adoption is also an expression of that. But it has to be said that it is also important that what Denmark is doing can be important enough, but it is not something that can move anything. We are dealing with a country that represents more than one fifth of the world's population. That's a lot. And it is a country that is increasingly becoming a superpower. And that means, of course, you have to pay attention to how to deal with it, not least when the United States is starting to retire and say America first, and when we see that where the United States is withdrawing, the Chinese are going in. Iran is a very good example. The fact that the Iranian agreement is being denounced has given rise to the consequence that the Chinese are on their way, and that is what Canada's case is about. In general it is characteristic, and it will also be seen elsewhere, where the Chinese systematically, smartly and cynically enter and exploit the voids that arise. And who can fill it out? Perhaps the European Union, together with other democratic countries, will be able to do that, Canada, South Korea, Australia and other countries, and perhaps we should think a little bit about this, in other words how the countries that defend the democratic world order can work better together and not necessarily become dependent on the United States. It is also a discussion that could be taken at some point. But it is certainly necessary, I believe, to have a form of cooperation that can deal with the Chinese challenge, but also the American challenge, in that the United States is currently withdrawing from these various fora. So in this sense, there are enough challenges, and there I think that Danish policy is too weak in itself, and what happened here in Copenhagen with the arrest was for me to see scandalously that is being investigated now, but that is something that we should not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207143419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. It does not look like the Conservative People's Party is present, and then it is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207143437	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate and an important debate, and thank you for your views. It is quite clear that we all agree that China plays an increasingly important role and has a growing importance. I am also quite convinced that, of course, the entire Parliament agrees with the government that we should not give up freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and I think the debate here today has shown this. At the same time, the government believes that, in view of China's power and economic strength and ambitions, which are growing, it is also in Denmark's clear interest that we continue to engage in China, the great, large country, as several have also pointed out, the world's most populous and, at the same time, the world's second largest economy. There are opportunities for Denmark in China, and we must, of course, pursue them. At the same time, we must also make the demands we make and mention the criticisms we make at the relevant meetings where we have the opportunity to do so, because our social model is clearly a different model of society from that chosen by China. They are very different, and of course it also makes us look at different matters differently. There are, of course, nuances to what the individual rapporteurs have said from the point of view, but I welcome the fact that there is a broad majority in Parliament supporting the government's line and that it might even have been possible to have an even wider majority behind the proposal for adoption which is now being proposed. But thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207143636	Thank you. There are no immediate comments. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, who has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207143649	Thank you very much. At the outset, I was a little disappointed that our proposal for adoption could not be accepted. I think that the broad proposal for adoption is not so bad, and that is very big words when they come from someone from Himmerland. It may well happen that we will eventually vote in favour of it, because it basically explains what we want. I would also like to say that I think I am tracking a change. It may well happen that this is something I hear from the rapporteurs in relation to what we saw in the 2009 verbal note, which was the starting point for a new policy towards China. What then took place afterwards in 2012 with the visits etc. is, in my view, the result of the verbal note that was. It was also a difficult time, I can understand that. It was really hard. After all, we know how the Danish economy suffered under the conditions that were because the Prime Minister had received the Dalai Lama. So, of course, this is an incredibly difficult discussion. However, I would argue that we treat China quite uniquely in relation to other countries. Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen Russia, and there may be others. I do not think that it would be accepted in any way if it came from all sides other than China, and that is the result of the verbal note that was there. I think there's light at the end of the tunnel, and let's not hope it's an oncoming train. But I think there are some points of light and I simply do not believe that the scenes we saw, among other things. here outside Christiansborg and down at Højbro Plads, will repeat itself. I do not think there is any police authority that, after what has happened, will accept this either, nor the individual policeman nor the government. We are not yet familiar with the Commission's work, but I have a strong assumption that this must be something that came from higher bodies than those which were actually appointed in the first place. They were certainly not titled with very high rank. So I think there's light ahead. After all, the discussion itself is about being able to deal with everyone, but not on every condition. That is what is the great schism, and I must admit that when we were in China then and also met representatives of the Danish business community, I could easily understand the fear they had that things would suddenly happen again in relation to China policy. Because they've got their livelihoods there. We are great exporters when it comes to China. So I understand the dilemma. I think we just have to cut through, as I thought that then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen did in connection with the Mohammed drawings. He stood firm, no matter how many battles he had. I think you should remember that, and it was also a difficult situation for him. It was suddenly not just one country, but virtually all the Muslim countries that were involved in some form of protest and boycott. But I believe that we chose the right thing and that in 2009 we chose the wrong thing with the verbal note. But the Commission will be of great importance and will uncover a lot of these things, and I hope that this will be the occasion for us to move forward and that we will not do anything like this in the future. I think that the Commission report that is expected must be the one that actually makes things clear. Then there's the panda ceremony, which I can't wait to be part of. I won't bring any flags or anything. I'm just gonna come in nice and neat as I always am. I'm gonna take a look at the President. Let's see what's going on with the pandas will show us where we're gonna be at then, and let's take a look at it. I'll keep an eye on it. Thank you for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144107	It's been a long Friday. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 11 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144124	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144146	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here is, of course, a legislative proposal which we have had a little time to look at at at the moment, because it was part of an agreement recently concluded by the government, and that is why we have not quite been able to look at all the details of the consultation responses. We have not received the Ministry's response to the consultation answers, but I would say that, on the part of the Social Democrats, we are basically in favour of clearing up, and what we want here is to remove a general waste management fee, which is paid by a number of companies in the country, and where there is at least evidence that a great deal of the money is spent on controlling or exempting those companies that do not have to pay the fee, and it is, of course, quite crazy to use the funds in this way. What we then need to ensure is, of course, that the environmental tasks, the waste management tasks that the municipalities have to solve out there are also being financed in the future, and we want to take a constructive approach to how we can ensure that the government proposes that something is financed under the Finance Act, that something is financed directly from the block grant to the municipalities, but we also understand that there are some corners that need to be agreed on how to ensure that the polluter pays in certain specific cases. So very briefly on this draft law, the Social Democrats are in favour, but we reserve the right, of course, to be wiser in committee work, as we have not yet received consultation notes from the government and therefore not an answer. Then I have promised to say on behalf of the Radical Left, which unfortunately cannot be here, that the Radical Left is also in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144328	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144336	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party too, we think the proposal is very good. It has turned out that of the 100 million. kr., one has spent on having this scheme, almost half has gone to administration, and I guess everything else just has to say that money that is just used to move papers is badly spent if nothing comes out of it at the other end. Now I myself have been a self-employed person, and I know what it's like to get these charges and then have to ask not to pay the fees because you can be exempted. There is a lot of administration in that, so I think it is really positive that we remove it, and I think it is good that we look at the rules that are unnecessary...
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144419	There is too much talk on the benches of ministers while a rapporteur is on. Sorry, hello, it's up here, it's going on. There's too much talk going on. Please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144434	But as I said, I think it's a good thing that you get rid of some of the superfluous things that are that you don't just spend money moving paper stacks, but actually spend them on something useful and in my optics it's been moving paper stacks. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144455	Thank you. There are no comments either. Sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144511	Thank you for the floor. With Bill 119, we generally abolish the waste management fee for companies. This is a fee that we currently charge at approx. 300,000 companies. However, the collection of the waste fee and, in particular, companies' applications for exemption from the fee have proved to be inappropriately rigid and bureaucratic. Overregulation and unnecessary bureaucracy are damaging to our Danish companies and their competitiveness. That is why it is a priority in the Left for us to regulate and give freedom and flexibility back to the companies themselves. This is what we are doing with the present proposal. I have rarely seen a tax or a tax myself for the cause I didn't want to put down, and I feel the same way here. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144608	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144622	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is not so enthusiastic about the proposal, and it is not, in fact, because we think that the fee system and the administrative costs that are now are something we are particularly excited about, but there are at least three important reasons: firstly, we do not think it is appropriate that the proposal violates the polluter-pays principle. Second of all, this is a bias. Businesses must not pay to get rid of their waste, but citizens still have to pay for it, so we think it would be fair to be equal before the law in this context. And finally, thirdly, we could see that if the minister has a lot of money he would like to spend on abolishing this fee, that if there is so much money burning in his pocket to do something good for the environment, then with such a little quick arithmetic, it is of course up to 0.25 billion. kr. So here, at least on the Enhedslisten side, we will say that this is not the right way to spend the money. Then, as you know, haste is cargo: the municipalities have already adopted and issued their billboards, the consultation period compared to this proposal was only 31⁄2 days, and we have not even seen the overall inventory of the consultation answers, nor the Minister's comment on them. Frankly, we think this is a backup, so it doesn't get the support of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144810	Thank you. There are comments and questions from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144816	Thank you. I just couldn't feed myself because, as I have been sitting and being self-employed and doing bookkeeping and auditing and having had a business address... my business was at home, but my job was actually to drive out to companies and make sure that their bookkeeping was in order... do you think that it is perfectly reasonable for such a small company to have to pay a waste fee? Because that has been the case so far. It wasn't like I had more garbage. I kind of paid for my renovation at home. In fact, this really means a lot to 300,000 small businesses, which, in principle, do not have the large amount of waste but are in a situation where they have to pay for something that they really do not get.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144903	Now it is actually the case that companies that have no waste can apply for exemption, and there are a very large number of companies that have been exempted from this payment. Moreover, I can tell Mrs Pia Adelsteen that I myself was self-employed and actually granted exemption because, with a communication company, I did not have waste to the extent that I had to pay for it. So I think that maybe it was also an opportunity for Mrs Pia Adelsteen in the situation she was in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144932	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207144935	Yes, but then I can tell you that for a large number of those to be exempted, it has something to do with turnover. So if you put too much money into it, you cannot be exempted, no matter how much waste you have. So it has nothing to do with the amount of waste and the environment... it has something to do with turnover all of a sudden. That is why I think it is actually absolutely perfect what we are going in and doing. It has nothing to do with mess, it has nothing to do with the environment, it has nothing to do with anything. It's nothing but charging a fee for something people don't get anything for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145003	Now, actually, there are quite a few of the companies that pay the fee, which also gets not only something for it, but quite a lot for it. But I will agree with Pia Adelsteen, and I also said this at the outset in my rapporteur's speech that it is not, of course, because this fee scheme and the fee schemes that are on waste as such are something that has grown in the backyard of Enhedslisten. And it would be a really good idea to look at how this fee allocation should be designed. So we would very much like to look at it, but in good order and without the haste in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145038	Then it's mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145043	I hear the rapporteur say that it should be a problem for the municipalities to have adopted some billboards. Can the rapporteur tell us how this is going to be a problem when the bill says that the municipalities will be compensated through the municipal block grants? Where's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145100	The problem is, you do this so late, you actually have to do something about it that has already been done. It may well be that there will be block grants and that the municipalities will be compensated for block grants as well as compensation for what they have collected, which the municipalities will miss in relation to administration and for what they have to pay for the waste. However, it is a hassle to adopt new billboards and, moreover, to send out new messages to the companies which have been informed of the tariffs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145138	Sir. Erik Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145140	But I can say briefly that I am now sitting in a municipal council, and I cannot really see that trouble because you have to adopt a new bill and send out a message that companies are not going to have to pay anyway. I don't see the big problem in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145157	In the Enhedslisten we do not have double mandates, so I can say that I am currently on leave from my city council membership. But I know very well how this is done in town councils and municipal councils around, and it is not because this is something that overturns a municipality's economy. It's just some extra trouble, and it gives some extra administration, and there's no reason for that from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145227	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145246	Thank you. Bill L 119 is a very good legislative proposal because it addresses a problem that we have recently begun to address seriously in the Folketing, namely too high transaction costs. An evaluation report on waste management has been prepared in 2016, and it says that half of the municipalities' revenues from fees go with the collection and administration of fees and the administration of companies' application for exemption, and that is simply too high transaction costs. The reason why a unanimous Parliament has decided to look at transaction costs on pools and to intervene here is precisely this consideration that there must be some sense in madness, so to speak, when we collect taxes, and there are transaction costs of approx. 50% simply not something that makes sense. So this is just a very, very sensible and rational move towards reducing transaction costs, which we strongly support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145409	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145417	Thank you. Oh, well, here we are again with a bill that needs to be rushed through, and I want to say that it irritates me violently every time. I understand when things have to be rushed through for external reasons, but this is because we have been too slow to bring together a legislative proposal which we would like politically to enter into force on 1 January 2019. It might as well come into force the following year or at some other time. So it is only a political wish that it should produce results quickly, and that is why I do not think it is right to rush through this proposal. We are also sceptical about the content of this. Several interested parties write that there is, after all, a dispute over the polluter-pays. When a company has to treat its waste, it is reasonable to pay directly for that benefit, and if it is transferred to the block subsidy for the municipalities, it is of course the citizens who pay over the tax, as I understand it. But it has gone very fast. But of course there may be something I have misunderstood. We would like to see a simplification of the fee structure, and if things can be optimized so that more goes to the actual performance and less to administration, it is always an advantage. But as things stand now and with this very rapid treatment, we are sceptical and are voting against it immediately. But let us see what we can find out in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145554	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Socialist People's Party rapporteur is not here. Then it's mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145606	Thank you. When the business community is to be charged fees that are both incomprehensible, inappropriate, unfair and foolish, the Folketing must, of course, act. In 2010, a so-called waste management fee was imposed on the business community to cover the administration of the municipalities. This happened, among other things. to increase transparency with the municipal fee for waste. It quickly became a disgraceful scheme, partly because the rules were rigid, partly because there was a large difference in the level of fees between municipalities and partly because many companies were charged a fee, even if the company had no waste production at all. This meant that many companies would have to apply for exemption from the fee. The total revenue from the fee represents for the municipalities of the country less than approx. 100 million kr., about half of which goes to the administration of the municipalities with the collection and processing of companies' applications for exemption from the fee. Now I have to be careful what I say, and the President has to correct me if I cannot, but it is purely bullshit. That is why Conservatives are also very pleased that the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate is now putting forward a bill that completely abolishes the general administrative fee for companies. We are because Conservatives want to make it easier to operate in Denmark, because we generally have a desire to reduce taxes and taxes in Denmark, and last but not least, because foolish, incomprehensible fees and charges should of course be removed completely. Conservatives, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145738	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145745	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The aim of the bill is to abolish the general administrative fee for commercial waste. Approx. 300 companies are charged a fee covering the municipalities' general management of waste from companies and two state waste databases. The fee is a total burden on companies with approx. 100 million kr. annual and are also collected from companies that have hardly any waste, e.g. smaller service and IT companies, and worse still, about half of the fee goes to manage the collection itself. Therefore, both municipalities and companies think that the fee is expensive, cumbersome and bureaucratic. Most of the remaining tasks of the municipalities will in future be financed through the municipal block grant. The consultation deadline for the draft law expired on Wednesday 5 December. We are working on sending consultation answers and consultation notes to the committee so that it can be included in the committee's deliberations on the draft law. Thank you again for the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law and I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in committee. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145909	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181207145926	Today there is a further review: The Treasury Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 120 (Proposal for a Law amending the Registration Tax Act, the Fuel Consumption Tax Act and the Weight Tax Act for Motor Vehicles, etc.) and change of bottom allowance for electric vehicles etc.). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 11 December 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend.
