ParlaMint-DK_20181204130038	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen): Motion for a resolution No. B 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to the national naval forces of NATO countries, including the promotion of maritime security and the defence of naval forces). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on financial compensation in respect of appeals). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the total ban on the sale of herbicides and pesticides containing the active substance glyphosate). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Haste query no. F 22 (What can the Government say about its position on the UN's Migration Agreement, "Global Compact for Migration', which may be joined on 10-11 December 2018 in Marrakech?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accommodation of children's families who have been refused asylum. B 50). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130207	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130236	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 20 of Mattia Tesfaye (S), Marie Krarup (DF), Mads Birded (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 20 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 19 by Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130353	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 22 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. in writing. - 54 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 11 (ALT and RV), abstained 41 (S, EL and SF). Proposal for adoption No V-22 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 21 by Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130537	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130614	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130619	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130658	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130703	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130743	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130749	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130821	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130826	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130904	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204130915	Thank you. Sometimes something new happens between a first and a second treatment, and this is what has been done in this case. I'll get back to that. In a few moments, we will be voting on whether we should stop cutting down the daily allowance or whether it should just be allowed to continue, so that the daily allowance value in 2025 is reduced by a further DKK 15 000. on an annual basis, in addition to the 30,000 with which the value of the daily allowance has been eroded, from the introduction of the pool of rates and until now. As some are aware, the LO has made a proposal on how to stop this development, and this is simply by increasing the maximum daily allowance rate from now until 2025. It is a good proposal which Enhedslisten has made his own and which has been the first reading on 16 November. Unfortunately, only the SF and the alternative could support it, but at least thanks to the two parties for that support for the union's wishes. Social democracy spoke against the proposal, and for most it is perhaps a little surprising, since the party is at least being referred to as a red party in the media. According to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen believes his party that it is an important issue that we have raised, that it is not a wrong proposal that we have made and that the benefit rate can easily be higher. But why vote against it? Yes, first of all, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and his party do not mean that we can simply adopt such a motion for a resolution which costs so much money. After all, we do not agree that it costs as much money as the Ministry of Finance's calculator claims. The real increase in public expenditure is 0.5 billion. kr., and it is certainly not small change in an ordinary household budget, but in the big accounts it might be a reasonable expense to spend on regulating the daily allowance so that they provided better coverage by unemployment than they do today. But apart from that, the Social Democratic argument must have been invented for the occasion. This was certainly not the case a year ago when the Social Democrats tabled a resolution calling for growth in the public sector by 2020 to be 0.7 per cent. a year, which will cost 25 billion. kr. There were no problems there, and we are happy about that, and we supported it, but that is an example of the fact that it is obviously not the money that is involved. Secondly, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and I quote: Secondly, we are also involved in a conciliation, and that is where things need to change, because that is where we have the opportunity to count on things, that is where we have the opportunity to look at it properly and make some proper policy. Now I think it is a very good policy we have proposed, but it is obviously a temperament issue. To Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's argument must be: No, the Social Democratic Party is not involved in any conciliation on the regulation of the daily allowance rate, because there is no conciliation on that issue. The Minister, and that was the new one, confirmed this in a letter to the committee of 28 November. In other words, the Social Democratic Party is quite free to fight for an increase in the daily allowance rate, they do not have to ask any of the bourgeois parties about it. Now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen saw that you have to sit around a table and count and agree to change things. Yeah, you have to, and sometimes something good comes out of that. But who is it, sir? Leif Lahn Jensen wants to sit down on that question? Does he really believe himself that he can convince the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left that raising the daily allowance rate is a good idea? It is parties which have taken pride in reducing the benefit system and which have really been successful in this respect. I'd like to hear all that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's answer. I don't think he's here today, but maybe another representative of the Social Democratic Party could go up and explain the wisdom of this. The question is very simple: who is the most loyal to the parties who have decided that the value of the allowance should be reduced, or are they most loyal to the legitimate demands of members and trade unions to stop the reduction of the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131334	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131340	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131412	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131440	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131457	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 by the Minister for Employment outside the report as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131526	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131541	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour 20 (EL, ALT, SF and 1 LA (by mistake)) voted against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2 and joined by the same minorities as rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131628	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131643	All I have to do is ask for the proposal to come back to committee and we can do so and yet keep to the deadline. This is because I have asked a number of questions to which I have only received an answer after a report has been submitted. And I think it is right that the committee should have the opportunity to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131705	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131713	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 17 (EL, ALT and SF), against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8-12, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131916	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131933	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204131952	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132006	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132035	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132049	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132113	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132127	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132147	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132208	Thank you. We have tabled four amendments on behalf of Enhedslisten to L 56, which are of course about setting up the new social investment fund, which will open up private investors to invest in Danish welfare and social policy. We find this extremely problematic. It's a slippery path to making profit on welfare. That is why we have tabled an amendment which changes the purpose of the fund's work, which is that the fund should not, as always, when it invests in projects, reduce public expenditure, but should have what is the aim of social policy, namely to lead to an increase in the quality of life. At the same time, we have also tabled an amendment which writes private investors out of the purpose clause. We think it can be right, really fine to make early interventions and preventive work, but we in no way do that in the best way by letting private people invest. We could make it cheaper by taking a government guaranteed loan. We know this from the Green Investment Fund. So far there has not been a majority in favour of doing so. On the other hand, the expensive solution has been chosen. Thirdly, we have tabled an amendment to the effect that we must not be able to withdraw money from the fund, which means that we must not be able to make money from our sick, our children and our elderly. It is a task for society, it is a common task for the state, municipalities and regions to ensure that children and the sick and the elderly have proper conditions. It should not be an investment object for pension funds and investment funds. The last amendment concerns the fact that we would like to have a board of directors, which is largely composed of people with a social, educational and health background. This is a clarification of what is in the draft law as a starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132412	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132419	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 8 (EL), against 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132629	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132645	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. Draft law amending the law amending the law on foreigners. Draft law amending the law on foreigners. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132927	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204132933	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to have more clear rules when unaccompanied minors living in Denmark, either as asylum seekers or without legal basis, are enforced in partially closed departments and institutions, secured 24-hour institutions and specially secured departments, especially for their own sake. As it is now, there are not as clear rules in the legislation on what is going to happen to these children and young people who are forced to be brought as there are for children with a residence permit. We therefore consider it sensible that the proposed rules in the draft law should be laid down in accordance with the rules already in force in the Services Act, namely those which also apply to other children and young people. Social democracy supports clear rules in this area for the sake of these children and young people who are staying in Denmark. There must be something completely wrong, and it is always for the health and general well-being of the individual that coercion takes place. Social democracy therefore supports the point about the placement of unaccompanied minors. I would also like to say that we have learned in recent years that the expulsion of foreigners is a major problem. In particular, it has been logistical and practical difficulties. In other words, we spend a great deal of money and resources on showing very few people, which is why we can only support measures to facilitate the process of repatriation. The other points in the draft law on the adjustment of the right of appeal in detention cases, exhaustive list of cases for the extension of detention, clarification of the rules on order and order at accommodation sites and proposals for changes resulting from the abolition of the State Administration also support the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133128	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133138	Thank you. Well, it's not one of these proposals that gets your pulse up, either way. These are a number of legal clarifications, it has to be said, where the procedure and the law underlying them are concerned, among others. the detention of unaccompanied refugee children and the police's ability to search the sentenced persons for expulsion are described in more detail. As far as the first point is concerned, that is to say rules for the placement of unaccompanied refugee children, we do have some doubts as to what this bill is actually going to lead to, and we would therefore like to ask some questions. It is, of course, a question of bringing legislation in this area into line with the Services Act, and we would like to ask in this process what consequences it actually has. That is why we are stepping up on this point in relation to the draft law, and we will then tell you later whether we support it or not. In paragraph 2, there is something about complaints about the police's decision on administrative detention and that it should be moved from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the National Police Commissioner. There are a lot of different things in this, which we can actually see that it is very sensible to clarify technically, and that is to say, clarify the law behind it, everyone can only be interested in it. But we will still wait and see with regard to the process of this, where we are essentially positive, but we will just ask some questions about the things that we are in doubt about. So it is neither for nor against at this stage. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133346	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133359	Thank you. Today we are discussing a draft law which contains a number of different initiatives in the field of foreigners. Several of them have been explained from up here by previous speakers, and I do not want to bore that out any further. This concerns, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. the placement of unaccompanied minors, body search of foreigners, tranquillity and order at accommodation sites, and who is to take over duties from the State Administration, which closes down per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I shall spare you a minute review of all the parts of the bill and simply emphasise that the draft law in general ensures greater clarity and legal certainty, and that is, of course, one thing that we in the Left can only support. And with those words, I have to say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133445	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133458	Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Søren Søndergaard, could not be here today, so I have promised to give him the speech. Unfortunately, the draft law we are discussing now is yet another example of the parliamentary injustice that the government brings together widely differing proposals without any coherence in a legislative proposal. The draft law here is a mixture of technical clarifications, which may immediately seem very reasonable, and relatively far-reaching changes which require a major legal policy discussion. One example of the latter is the far - reaching changes in the ability of the police to carry out body inspection and physical examination of detained foreigners. The proposal here introduces a general rule that prior to an examination of a rejected asylum seeker there must always be a body examination and a body inspection, even when the asylum seeker is involved in the expulsion and when there is no concrete reason to believe that the asylum seeker is hiding anything from the police. We agree with, among other things. Danish Refugee Aid, the Court of Justice, the Institute for Human Rights and the Red Cross in that the proposal gives the police a far-reaching obligation to make very burdensome interference with the right to privacy without making a concrete assessment of the need, and that this is very problematic. That alone is enough for Enhedslisten not to support the overall bill, and since the government has chosen to confuse it with probably sensible technical changes, the Enhedslisten will not be able to vote for them either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133629	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133640	Thank you for that, President. The bill consists primarily of a number of clarifications and consequences of the Aliens Act and the Law on Danish citizenship. More substantial changes include extending the police's ability to search foreigners in connection with deployment. It is proposed that a search may be carried out even if there is no suspicion that the alien is in possession of items such as: can be used as a weapon. The clear starting point should, of course, be that searching should only take place when there is a concrete suspicion. Frisking people is pretty intrusive. On the other hand, it must also be recognised that forced broadcasting is a rather special situation. It can be violent and enormously emotional. And there are important considerations to take to an unarmed police officer and other passengers. We can therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133743	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204133751	Thank you. In the alternative, we cannot support the overall legislative proposal. We agree with some elements, but there are also some other elements that we believe have some rather deeply problematic legal implications for the individual citizen, and therefore we cannot support the overall legislative proposal. I would like to go into a little detail about what we can support and cannot support. In relation to the element of amending the rules on the placement of unaccompanied minors, this is an authorisation provision. It is proposed that the Minister for Children and Social Affairs be given the power, after negotiation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, to lay down detailed rules for the use of the placement of unaccompanied minors. It is positive that there is a clarification of the rules and that the Service Act can be used as a prerequisite for this authorisation provision. But in general we believe that all children should be subject to the Services Act in Denmark, so this element should not lie at all in the field of foreigners. In relation to paragraph 2 on the adjustment of the right of appeal in detention cases, I would say that we support it. So we really don't have any... No. I'm sorry! That's not true; now I'm mixing them together. We do not support that either. We think it is problematic that the prosecution is within the same authority, namely the police, and not as today with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. So we are, in fact, critical of that too. In relation to paragraph 3, on the exhaustive list of cases of prolongation of detention, we think it is a good thing that we are harmonising in relation to the EU directive on expulsions, and we support that part of it. Paragraph 4, which deals with the search of foreigners prior to a broadcast, is therefore in line with what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has quite critical of, namely that a body examination can be carried out before the broadcast, but without the need for a specific assessment or immediate danger. We consider this to be a problem in terms of legal certainty, so we do not support it either. In relation to paragraph 5, which seeks to clarify some rules on order and order in accommodation establishments, I would say that we were at the time critical of the rules, but we think it is positive that the application group for these rules should be fleshed out. So we have no problem with paragraph 5. Finally, we also do not support the part about changes in relation to the closure of the State Administration, which has the consequence that the right of appeal in relation to Danish citizenship lapses, because today you can complain to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration about the decisions of the State Administration, but that is not possible in the future because the State Administration has lapsed. So we also find that problematic. It was a slightly more technical review of why we think we can support some of the points and that others we cannot support. But we cannot support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134049	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134056	The bill here contains a lot of very logical and sensible clarifications of the law. These clarifications could have been avoided by the government if legislation had not been rushed through in the way we have seen in recent years. Legislation is being properly voted out in a few days' time here in Things, and this amendment to the law is an example of the fact that now one has to adjust the law, because it has simply been shown that one has been too imprecise in the law one has made. We can, of course, support making these changes, but, like a number of colleagues, we cannot support the overall legislative proposal, and there are three reasons for this. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance, I think, went through very precisely that the choice here is to search people without a reasonable suspicion that the security of the realm or a person is at stake. The Liberal Alliance has then come to the conclusion that it is possible for the police to do so, even if there is no suspicion. We have come to the opposite, namely that it should be described in a law, when the police should do so and what criteria should be met. That is why we cannot support that part. Nor can we support the fact that you can complain about the police themselves. We believe that there should be another authority to which a complaint can be made if you are dissatisfied with the decision taken by the police in relation to detention. The latter is what the alternative rapporteur also said about, namely de facto removing the right of appeal against decisions in matters of citizenship, i.e. cases of nationality. There we think there should be a right of appeal so that the decision taken can be challenged. So, overall, we cannot support the entire legislative proposal, but we think it is very good that the government and its majority should clarify the points that need to be clarified in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134303	Thank you. There's just one question from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134309	Well, the reason I'm asking is actually that I just want to clarify a few things, because that applies to citizenship, that is. the last part, that a declaration can be made and that a derogation can therefore be applied for and that a complaint can then actually be made to the birthright office. In fact, I think it is very logical that it is not the state administration, since it no longer exists after April 2019. So I actually think it is a very logical regulation, I have to say, and I do not see that there is any legal certainty at all in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134354	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134356	Thank you for Mr. Christian Langballe's commentary. Sir. Christian Langballe is, of course, in contrast to me, a naturalist, so it may well be that Mr. Christian Langballe has more control over the substance than I have. As I read it, when I looked through the bill this weekend, it seemed that the right of appeal was removed. It may well be that this is not the case, and we will of course change our criticism of it. Then there are still the other two factors that make it impossible for us to vote in favour of the overall amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134428	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134441	I would also like to make a little hassle about the fact that all sorts of different bigger and smaller things are piled together in a single legislative proposal. It is therefore not possible to get proper legal treatment in this way, and it is not always the case that things have such a direct connection with each other. Then I would say that we are also extremely critical of this bill. Several other rapporteurs have mentioned some of the critical points: the possibility of specific body tests is a very large measure of intervention; the deterioration or, at least, the change in the right of appeal, where you have to complain to the police themselves, etc., is also a critical point. So there are a number of critical points, at least some critical points, which raise some legal concerns. This is always something that needs to be assessed strongly when taking measures that, like legal certainty, cause concerns. Then you have to have a very good reason for doing so, and I don't think I can see that in this. In any case, it has to be argued that it is necessary to restrict legal certainty in these areas in order to implement these things. So we would like to drill into that during the committee procedure. But we are extremely critical of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134620	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134628	The bill deals with a wide range of regulatory changes that I do not want to go into in detail with others. These are quite a number of technical changes to the rules, which we have already debated in this Chamber. For example, it is proposed that in future complaints concerning detention be brought against the National Police Commissioner rather than against the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It makes good sense that the right of appeal lies with the authority which has the expertise in this area. It is also proposed that the rules on visitation be regulated in the Aliens Act. Our police must have the best legal framework to carry out their work. That is why it is good that we make clear rules for police work with foreigners. It is also proposed to clarify the extensive changes we have made in the area of asylum, in particular the rules on accommodation for asylum seekers. These were rules that we introduced following many cases of unrest and violent behaviour that created insecurity for staff. This bill specifies that the prohibition of threats and violent behaviour applies to all foreigners who are accommodated in accommodations under the Aliens Act. The draft law also contains a number of changes in competence resulting from the closure of the State Administration. All in all, the fine adjustments that we in the Conservatives support are fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134804	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204134812	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs. It is true, as has been said, that this bill contains a number of different amendments to the law on foreigners and also to the law on citizenship. I look forward, of course, to the further consideration of the draft law in this Chamber, and I can also hear that there will be a number of questions in the committee afterwards. They will, of course, be answered. After all, the bill proposes a number of changes to the rules of Chapter 9b of the Aliens Act on the placement of unaccompanied minors introduced in 2017. In addition, it is proposed to move the right of appeal in cases of administrative detention where the alien is not first brought before the court. It is proposed that police access to searching a foreigner be regulated directly in the Aliens Act. Among other things, it is proposed that the police may search a foreigner even if the police do not suspect that he or she is in possession of items which may harm the person himself or others. However, it is still a requirement that the police always assess whether there is now a need for such a search. The police must therefore always be able to demonstrate that the search is reasonable and factual, and here the police will, among other things, be able to demonstrate that the search is reasonable and factual. could look at e.g. age of aliens and past behaviour. The bill also clarifies the rules on order and order in accommodation establishments. The provision of the Aliens Act prohibiting violent and threatening behaviour at asylum centres has been constantly amended and extended over the years, and this has led to the wording giving rise to doubts as to which aliens are subject to the ban. That is why we are making that clear now. The State Administration is currently carrying out tasks on the territory of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, which will be transferred to other authorities when the State Administration is expected to be closed on 1 April 2019. These are matters of residence under EU law, which we propose should be dealt with by the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration. These are also some cases of residence permits in connection with adoption, which we propose should be dealt with by the National Immigration Authority. For both types of cases, it is proposed that the Aliens' Board be a review body. It is also proposed to move the handling of cases of Danish citizenship to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. With this, and with this brief overflight over the amendments to this bill, I would like to thank you once again for your consideration here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135122	Thank you for that, there are no comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135151	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135156	Thank you for that, President. This bill basically contains two things. Firstly, there is a change in the law of guardianship. The change follows from the work that has been done in the Ministry of Justice as a follow-up to motion for a resolution B 71, which was discussed in February, which allows people to be deprived of legal capacity, but at the same time makes the legal guardianship more flexible. This means, for example, that we can still vote in parliamentary elections, even if we do not have the same full rights in all other areas as we have been able to do up to now in local and regional elections. That is why you get a more tailor-made guardianship for the individual, so that it fits the situation in which he or she is in. That is the first part of the proposal. The second part of the proposal concerns an amendment to the rules on reimbursement claims. It is on the basis of a specific case that has been taken up by the Minister for Justice, and a great deal of thanks must also be paid to the Minister for Justice for taking this matter so seriously. This is a case from Faarevejle in northwest Zealand, where a girl was abused for five years as a child and has been awarded a compensation of less than DKK 75,000. Then she saw that her biological mother had spent the money, so when she was 18, she didn't have the opportunity to get this money paid out. This is a very unfortunate situation, but also a situation that needs to be addressed. It is the case that I have invited Tasha Nielsen, as she is called, to listen here today, because I really think it is an example of how people can adopt laws based on very specific situations where individuals have been treated very badly. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the fact that we are now setting the limit from DKK 75 000. and to 0 kr., so it is so that no matter what tort allowance you get, you are entitled to it when you are 18 years old. And there is a requirement that you do not leave it to guardians or others along the way. So the Social Democratic Party can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135432	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135443	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in promoting the disability policy agenda for the last 31⁄2 years, but that is how we have made some good efforts and legislative changes to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities, and I also say to myself that it is of course of great importance that the disability policy agenda has been a priority of the government's support party, the Danish People's Party. For we have ensured a number of things, precisely in relation to blind and partially sighted people being included in the driving system; we have ensured suspensive effect within certain paragraphs so that we do not lose our help; we have changed the electoral law so that people with disabilities can vote with the help they want; we have secured aids in the voting box; we have adopted a ban on discrimination; and now with the Finance Act we have also promoted the disability policy agenda in relation to accompanying blind and partially sighted people over 67 years; the waiting lists on hearing treatment must be down; and in the field of employment we have now made a good deal, precisely in terms of promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. So also a great thank you to the government for being responsive to the fact that there has been a great desire from the Danish People's Party to find a solution within the framework of the Constitution, so that more people with disabilities can vote in parliamentary elections. The amendment must then ensure that as few persons under guardianship as possible are deprived of the right to vote in local elections because of a disability. On 21 April 2016, a majority of the Folketing decided to grant to people who are under section 6 of the guardianship law and have been deprived of legal capacity, the right to vote in regional and municipal elections and European Parliament elections. Here we also debated the right to vote in parliament. Now an analysis has been carried out, as a joint committee noted in a report following a motion for a resolution. I think it is a very good thing that we are now introducing a possibility of partial deprivation of legal capacity, which means that the person retains the right to vote in local elections. There will be flexibility in the guardianship system so that guardianship can be tailored to a greater extent and limited to just what is necessary. The Danish People's Party is also satisfied that it will be clarified in the comments to the bill that the implementation of a legal guardianship with total disengagement of the legal capacity under the existing regime in future can only be achieved if the interests of the person concerned cannot be adequately addressed through a less intrusive guardianship, including a guardianship with partial disengagement of legal capacity. A lot of people have a hard time managing their finances today. We can also see that in the programme 'Luxury trap', but that is why one can easily have a position and an opinion and participate in democracy, and I also understand the great desire that one should be allowed to vote for a parliamentary election. We will then change that today, so that as many people as possible can vote in parliamentary elections. In addition, this bill also ensures that if, as a minor, a tort allowance has been paid after sexual abuse etc., it should not be managed by a guardian, as there have been examples of abuse of this, where a child has received a sum of money in tort compensation and where the guardian has wrongly used funds given to the minor. This also makes great sense. The answers received are also incredibly positive. So all in all, it is a very good proposal, which we in the Danish People's Party have also worked for precisely in relation to having also had the Minister of Justice during Question Time down here in the Assembly Hall after a decision in the Supreme Court. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135833	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204135847	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. There are some legislative proposals that share the waters and give rise to a great deal of debate in this Chamber. I don't think this is one of them, which is why I want to be relatively brief. Today it is the case that persons under guardianship under Paragraph 29 of the Constitution do not have the right to vote in a parliamentary election, and the Supreme Court has last confirmed this in a judgment of 18 January 2018. This is something that several of the parties in the Danish Parliament have indicated that they want to change, and in the Left we are very pleased with the proposal that the government has now come up with. The possibility of partial withdrawal of a person's legal capacity ensures, on the one hand, that more people will be able to vote for a parliamentary election under guardianship. It means a great deal to the individual and it means a great deal to democracy. On the other hand, the proposal allows us to maintain the rules of guardianship for those for whom it is now most appropriate. The second part of the bill also warmly supports the Left. The proposal is based on a rather sad case in which a young woman's compensation from a sexual abuse case was improperly used by her loved ones. We have to protect people under guardianship against this kind of double failure, and we do that with this bill. So the Left supports the proposal and thanks for the kind treatment that has been given so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140014	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140027	I have the big temporary round today, and it's really nice, especially because this bill is on the agenda. Indeed, this is both a very important and very welcome draft law for democracy. During the last election campaign, I visited Sølund Festival in Skanderborg. It was a party day without even. The sun stood high in the sky, and despite physical and mental disabilities among the majority of the festival's guests, the mood was enormously high. In my naivety, of course, I had expected that all people, including people with disabilities, had the right to vote, but at Sølund Festival I understood that I must have been terribly wrong. The desire to discuss politics at Sølund Festival was enormous, and the desire to discuss the conditions of disabled people was great. However, the frustration of not having to vote with a large number of festivalgoers with whom I spoke was even greater. The fact that just over 100 years after the adoption of the major constitutional amendment in 1915, adult Danish citizens are still not allowed to vote in parliamentary elections and in referendums is absurd. That is why we are delighted at the fact in the Enhedslisten that this proposal now allows a number of people under guardianship to participate in democracy as well. History also includes, as has been said before, the deep disappointment that was for part of the citizens concerned and, as such, also for us in the Enhedslisten, when the Supreme Court ruled at the beginning of 2018 that it would be contrary to Article 29 of the Constitution to grant the 1,900 economically deprived citizens the right to vote in the Folketing. The ruling made it clear that a change in the constitution would be necessary to guarantee the voting rights of all those concerned and would therefore have long prospects. That is why it was also clear that we had to seek a different legislative path if voting rights were to be guaranteed to at least some of the citizens who have today been deprived of the right to vote. We therefore took the initiative, together with the Alternative, the Radical and the SF, for a resolution to amend the guardianship law. Among other things, we did. in the light of Swedish legislation in this area, which has allowed voting rights to be granted at least to some of the citizens concerned, if we amended Article 6 of the guardianship law, which allows citizens to be deprived of their legal capacity to a limited extent. We were therefore very pleased when the Minister for Justice came to us with the examination of the motion for a resolution and then, in mid-May, a majority could be reached on a report text in which we found that the government was prepared to do as much as possible to ensure that as many people as possible could have the right to vote in parliament under guardianship. We would like to express our satisfaction on the part of the Enhedslisten with this bill which is currently under discussion. Of course, we would have preferred all the citizens concerned to have the right to vote, but on the basis of the Supreme Court's ruling, we believe that the best possible solution has been found. Thank you. The next element is the actual implementation of the legislation, which, of course, we expect will happen as soon as possible. We are doing so because we will shortly be faced with a parliamentary election, and we therefore also hope that the Ministry will work hard to ensure that many of the citizens who today have a guardianship with full disenfranchisement of their legal capacity will be able to change their guardianship so that they can vote in the forthcoming elections. Of course, it is obvious that the possibilities depend to a large extent on when the Prime Minister chooses to issue elections, but it will help the process well on the way if information about the new legislation is distributed very quickly to guardians and citizens who are subject to guardianship under § 6 and that it is possible to provide the necessary support and guidance to those citizens who want to change their guardianship. It is important that the information is sent to the citizens concerned and their guardians as soon as possible, and it is therefore good that the Ministry of Justice, in its comments on the hearings, gives an undertaking to engage in dialogue with, among others. the disability organisations. There is really reason to welcome this bill and to congratulate those citizens with disabilities who can now finally, after years of struggle, be granted the democratic rights that should apply to any adult citizen of Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140508	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140519	Thank you. I would actually like to start by commending the Minister for Justice for, I think, having found a very good balance on a rather difficult issue, because with the debate we have here and with what we are discussing, we are in a position to mess with some of the most precious, the finest and most important things we have, namely our democracy. It must of course be the case that if we make changes which in any way affect democratic action, it must be done on a very well-considered basis. The whole debate, which is behind this bill, started back in January, when the Supreme Court ruled that the Danish state can, within the framework of the constitution, deprive persons under guardianship of their right to vote. It naturally raised the question of whether the legislation has now been put in place to the best possible effect, and these are the considerations which now lead to the legislative proposal. It has been the view of the Liberal Alliance that if a court has decided to deprive a person of legal capacity, it also includes the right to vote. We are still of the opinion that this is the case, and that is why we are also very positive that the courts will now be given the possibility of partially depriving a person of legal capacity. It will therefore be up to the courts to assess whether a person can make the choices that need to be made in order to be able to participate in something as important as a vote. It provides some flexibility in the whole guardianship system and also strengthens the freedom and right of individuals to participate in democratic action, while not undermining the whole idea of guardianship. I believe, as I said, that is a very good balance that the Minister for Justice has found. With regard to the second part of the draft law, which deals with the management of compensation payments for persons under guardianship, we believe that this is an important step in ensuring that the reimbursement is also actually due to him when he or she is no longer under guardianship when, for example, he or she is no longer under guardianship. 18 years of age. Overall, it is a very good bill that the Liberal Alliance supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140718	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140730	Again today, it is a privilege to come after so many talented rapporteurs who have sketched out good points as to why, in the alternative, we too are in favour. It is a good balance, as has been said several times, that is being set up here. Taking a position from person to person and from person to person is, when possible, absolutely the best solution instead of having something that puts people in boxes and gives people a uniform and perhaps wrong treatment. That is why I will be very brief and otherwise just say that we are in favour of both parts of the legislative proposal. I should also like to greet our radical colleagues and say that they are. And thank you to the Minister of Justice for a good piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140811	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140821	Fortunately, we are people in many different ways, and we must take good care of those citizens who are not fully able to take care of themselves in every context. But taking care of each other through the guardianship law in a way that takes the right to vote from some people is not in order. Of course, the SF supports the proposal to extend the right to vote and secure the law on guardianship. SF also supports the second part of the bill. It is a little incredible that this should be necessary, but it is clear that we must protect the people covered by the law from being cheated financially here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140855	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204140903	Thank you. The bill deals with the rules for persons under guardianship. The two parts of the draft law concern respectively the withdrawal of capacity and the reimbursement of allowances. The first part is about introducing a model of exclusion from capacity. Today it is the case that persons under guardianship can be deprived of legal capacity so that, for example, binding agreements cannot be concluded. Today, the rules are a little too square, so that today you can only have full capacity to do away with them. This means, for example, losing the right to vote in a parliamentary election. Citizens under guardianship are also citizens and must also have the opportunity to participate in democracy. It's self-evident. And it is a fairly fundamental right to be able to vote. That is why it is proposed to introduce the possibility of partial withdrawal of capacity. It can therefore provide more scope for action in the guardianship system. We think this is a sensible solution. The second part concerns the management of reimbursements. It is proposed to introduce rules so that in future the compensation for persons under guardianship must be managed in an approved management department. Unfortunately, we have seen cases in which children are paid compensation, for example. as a result of abuses in which the funds are subsequently improperly used by the injured person's family. We're gonna change that. We must ensure that the rules are such that children can keep the funds until they grow up. We Conservatives support the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141054	Thank you. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141104	Thank you, and above all thank you for the broad support for the legislative proposal that I have heard today, both for the part that concerns voting rights and for a new possibility of partial withdrawal of legal capacity, and also for the part that concerns the management of compensation for torture given to legal guardians. In relation to the part dealing with the right to vote in local elections for persons under guardianship, it can be said that it began as a joint project when we debated it in this Chamber before the summer recess, and this, as you know, was the starting point for an analysis which was therefore the basis for the bill here. Thank you all for your commitment, thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl for the good meetings in the circle here. The subject revolves around some of the most important things we have in Denmark, namely our democracy and who can vote, who can sit in this Chamber. Voting for parliamentary elections is huge, and it is important, but it almost gives itself. This also applies, of course, to persons under guardianship, because they are also part of our society, they are someone's daughter or son, neighbor or close friend, and they also deserve to have their voice heard. It has been the approach to working on this but, as I said before the summer holidays, it has also been crucial that new measures do not give rise to the very purpose of the guardianship rules, namely to protect people who, for some reason or other, cannot take care of themselves. From this point of view, I really think that the proposal here has found a good and golden middle ground: a new guardianship arrangement with the possibility of partial withdrawal of so-called legal capacity, in other words, in addition to the existing possibility of full capacity withdrawal. As described in the draft law, such a system ensures, first and foremost, that voting rights can be maintained for more people under guardianship, and, therefore, even if the start-up is about the right to vote, we also believe that a new possibility of partial withdrawal can, in general terms, provide some added value and flexibility in the guardianship system, because at the same time the new system ensures that those who do not need a full retirement can be more specifically deprived of the opportunity, for example. to conclude certain types of agreements. It is clear that the proposal here will not give voting rights to more people from day one, because, just as it is with everything else new, it will take a little time to get started, because we will have to look at the applications that are coming to adjust an existing capacity withdrawal. However, additional resources have been allocated to deal with these cases. Then there is the second part of the draft law, and it is about introducing a requirement that compensation for tort, which is granted to a person under guardianship, will in future always have to be administered in an approved management department. This applies regardless of the amount involved, which means that the guardian will not have immediate access to the money. The proposal has to be seen in the light of a deeply unhappy story, which several speakers have mentioned here today, about a young woman who, as a child, was subjected to sexual abuse. The money she was given as a small Band-Aid on the wound was improperly used by one of her loved ones. In my view, it is quite grotesque that such things may occur. In my view, it is the task of society to ensure that, for example, it is not just a matter of money, but also a matter of money. children who have been subjected to something as unforgivable as a sexual assault do not suffer another failure, and we must therefore ensure that the money given as a small patch on the wound is, as a starting point, retained until the children grow up. We shall therefore ensure this with the second part of the proposal here. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141456	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141500	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Minister for Justice when he expects that it will be possible to change his legal guardianship in accordance with the law here and whether it will be possible, if so, to be achieved before a forthcoming elections. Finally, I would also like to invite the Minister to Sølund Musik-Festival this summer to celebrate democracy. It may once again be in the middle of an election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141529	Thank you. I actually think I would just like to refer to the rapporteur's own speech, in which he also refers to the remarks about the fact that, of course, this is being started as soon as possible. Now we have to see how many inquiries are being made and additional resources have been set aside to deal with these matters and, as the questioner said in his speech from this point of view, it is of course very much a matter of when the parliamentary elections will be held. That is clear, but you will do everything you can to achieve as much as possible. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141602	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141616	The debate is open. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141634	Thank you for that, President. Many Danes are generous in donating money for charitable purposes, whether private individuals or companies. That is a good thing, but unfortunately we have also seen some stinging vessels deliberately circumventing the rules and beating the benevolent. We have witnessed a number of cases involving collectors who have deliberately circumvented the rules, so that the collection was not covered by the collection law and therefore not by the supervision and control of the Collection Board. On the other hand, the money collected was stabbed directly into the pocket of the collectors. It is important that, as a citizen and company in Denmark, you can rely on what you donate money to, in fact, is what the money is ultimately going to do. Therefore, there must be adequate control of collections, including on digital platforms. There must be a duty to ensure that those providing digital collection platforms also ensure that the collection takes place in accordance with the rules. That's what we're doing with the first part of this bill. At the same time, we also change the rules, so that heritage and gifts received by funds not only end up being locked in a bank account but can be used for charitable purposes such as relief and research. It has so far been the case that if not the heirlooms or the gift giver have explicitly determined how the inheritance or gift should be used, the money has simply been locked. Therefore, the second part of this bill introduces an opportunity for the money to come out and work and benefit in the future. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141808	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204141825	Bill L 117 has a really bad background, it must be said. The proposal arises from several examples of cynical criminals abusing the generosity that many Danes have when they call and ask whether they want to support a good purpose. That could be all sorts of good purposes. It may be children who are sick and need help; it may be nature organisations; it may be animals for which you want to do something good. It has to be said that we are in a happy situation in this country, because the Danes have great hearts when it comes to supporting each other. This is all very positive, but the problem is when the good intention is abused, as there have been examples of people gathering in, claiming it is for a good purpose, and the money really goes to parties and colors in different places. Of course that is not working, and it is in that light that we must understand the legislative proposal that has been put forward here. There are a number of different elements in the proposal when it comes to tightening controls. For example: The government is proposing to move away from a review model for these collections to a definite permit model. I have to admit that when I first read it, I thought: Oh, no, now we are talking about very long and bureaucratic deadlines, where people who really want to help and do something good are really going to be put to a standstill, but the government has, I think, defined that well in the comments, in which it is stated that the deadlines will not move significantly, so that it will stay on these 14 days, which they are already holding down today in the Collection Board. You also put a limit on these collections. I think that makes a great deal of sense, too, so that it cannot just run without it being followed up. As something new, it is proposed that the Collection Board should be allowed to say that collections should change their names. That proposal is good, it is very good. I think it was TV 2 that had some broadcasts about these organizations that cheated, and there they deliberately used names of collections that the Danes already associated with something good. Well, you took a positive collection, and then you picked a name that was almost the same, so it was virtually impossible to know the difference between these collections, and it had the character of pure fraud and humbug. This is being tightened up with the proposal where the Collection Board can decide to change the name of the collection. Then, too, the general exemption for collections made among legal persons is lifted, and we see this as a good step forward, because at the same time we have an exception which means that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we will be able to vote in local elections. represent a small association in a village that would like to collect a little for the local hall or for the local sports association, then there is some possibility that you can continue with it without it being hassle and bureaucratic. But you get harder on those who might defraud. That's pretty reasonable. The second part of the proposal concerns funds, and that part of the proposal will be looked at a little more closely. What that part is doing in this proposal, and why it has just merged with the part concerning the Collection Board, is a bit of an open question. The government is proposing that the boards of the funds should be given better opportunities to spend the money that is bequeathed to the funds. As a starting point, it sounds fascinating and reasonable to read the comments, but we will need to look at them a little more closely in committee work. As a starting point, the Danish People's Party is very much in favour of the bill, but there are of course some things we will look at when we get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142214	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142225	Thank you. And thank you for the review of the draft law by the previous rapporteurs, including the individual points in the draft law. I don't need time to repeat that here. The draft law we are discussing today is very much about trust and trust that the money a company grants for a collection will also end up being used for the expected purpose. In addition, the proposal deals with confidence that the legacy left to a fund is actually being used in the spirit it was intended for and not passively held in a bank account. About these two main elements: the collection board has, unfortunately, in many cases been able to see how collectors have sneaked around the rules of the collection law and the control of the collection board with the likely effect that the funds collected from companies have not gone to the purpose. The legal position today is that collections directed at companies are not covered by the collection legislation, including the supervision and supervision of the Collection Board. Therefore, with this bill, we are putting in place a series of measures to ensure that collected money ends up with the right beneficiaries, including that the collection law also covers collections aimed at companies in the future. The Left can only back that up. We also support the second part of the agreement, which corrects an inappropriate provision in the legislation, which means that today funds cannot use an inheritance or gift for distribution if the legacy or gift giver has not expressed an explicit desire to do so. They'll be allowed to do that in the future. So the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142408	Thank you. There's no question, and then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142422	Thank you. With this bill, with Enhedslisten's eyes, a sensible tightening of the collection rules is being made. The draft law will create greater transparency because collections made among legal persons are now also covered by the law. At the same time, in Enhedslisten, we welcome the change of the scheme from a notification scheme to a registration scheme. This will most likely mean greater and better control of the schemes. We can support the proposal in the Enhedslisten and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142455	Thank you. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142511	Thank you. When Danish companies and associations donate money for a collection, they must of course also be able to count on the money to go for the right purposes and not into the pockets of some clever backers. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance believe that it is sensible that we should now tighten up controls on such collections, which will no longer be exempt from the rules and controls of the collection law. The same applies to collections, which are carried out via e.g.: Facebook or other collection platforms. You have to be able to count on the money to end up in the right pockets. We can also support that part of the bill which gives charitable foundations greater freedom to have funds that have been bequeathed to them. In this way, we ensure that the funds can actually spend much more on the good purpose that the deceased had in mind and in the heart when he or she chose to bequeath in favour of that fund. The Liberal Alliance can therefore support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142612	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142623	In the alternative, we also support both parts of the bill. I personally have had a lot to do with collection in communications and sales, mainly telemarketing, and I should like to say here that it will also be pleasing to many of the companies that are actually doing really, really good collection. It has been mentioned earlier that we in Denmark have a great willingness to contribute when it comes to it, and there is a great pity for the companies or organisations, the people who sit and help to collect, and those who stand on the street and collect for good purposes, that you become part of the bad story and the bad experience you get when you are disappointed and frustrated that someone is cheating. So I think that this will be very positive for those organisations that behave completely impeccably and support things which could actually be politics and which are often politics, but on an organizational basis. So it's joyful. There is one question we want to ask. It may be that the Minister can reply to that already, otherwise I will put it as a written question. It is the University of Copenhagen that has a question in relation to the fund part, where I had difficulty, to say the least, in working out what exactly was the point of the University of Copenhagen. It was something about the capital requirements of the flexibility that came. But that is what we take in committee, unless it is quite right for the Minister. But both we and Radicals support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142747	Thank you. There's no radical left. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142800	It is good to supplement public funds for charitable purposes. Collections allow people to show generosity and provide absolutely necessary financial support for good purposes. But it has to be the case that there is security and security about the fact that collections actually go to the good ends too, partly in order not to cheat the money out of the pockets of unsuspecting companies and associations, but also in order to maintain confidence in the collections that support the good purposes. And, of course, SF supports strengthening control and transparency. The second part of the draft law, which states that the legacy of fund deposits must also be passed on for benevolent purposes, also supports the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142846	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204142854	It is important that we can count on the fact that when we provide funds for some purpose, the collection also follows the rules that exist and is supervised by the Collection Board. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of the collection law being used to collect funds for false purposes. This is because collections from companies are not covered by the collection rules. This proposal amends it in such a way that collection from companies is also covered by the rules and in a way that does not affect those who collect for recognised purposes. We have also seen an increase in the number of social media collections. Of course, it is important that all collections follow the rules. Therefore, fundraising services providers are required to comply with the rules. This applies, for example, to Facebookfundraisers. Another part of the bill is about not locking funds with funds. Nowadays, when you will a portion of your fortune into an organization, fund or the like, the money is locked in a bank account as part of the fund's fortune. They cannot therefore use the money for the purpose for which it was originally intended. That is why we are changing the rules so that funds that are bequeathed to organisations and foundations can be used as a starting point for the purposes which the recipient organisation considers most relevant. We think it is good that more clarity is being created about the rules on collection and that at the same time we will solve a problem for Denmark's non-profit associations, foundations and organisations. We in Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143043	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143053	Thank you and thank the rapporteurs for the positive contributions we have heard. It is very important that you as a citizen can be trusted, that collected funds actually go for the purpose that you have been promised, and just as important is that heritage and gifts received by funds not only end up locked in a bank account but can be used for charitable purposes. We will ensure that with the bill we are discussing here today. The first part of the bill is about collections. Unfortunately, in 2017, we saw a number of cases of collectors speculating on collecting among companies, because the collection is then not covered by the collection law and therefore is not under the supervision and control of the Collection Board. The money collected therefore ended up in the pockets of the collectors. As a citizen, we must be able to have confidence that the money we give for a good purpose actually goes to good ends. We now ensure this by ensuring that such gatherings are subject to the law in the future. The draft law also means that in future, holders of so-called collection platforms will be obliged to ensure that the collections created on their platforms are carried out in accordance with the rules. For me, it is important that there is the necessary control over collections. This also applies when gathering in, for example. Facebook fundraisers. It is equally important that we do not hit local sports associations that collect local businesses, and the bill therefore also takes this into account. Now to the second part of the proposal, which deals with funds. Today it is the case that if a citizen is bequeathing funds to a charitable fund such as this. Doctors without Borders or the Children's Cancer Fund will automatically enter the fund's assets if it is not directly stated in the will that the funds will be distributed. This means that the funds cannot be used for example. cancer research or emergency work. In my view, this is unfortunate when most people are not aware at all that it should be directly in the will. That is why we also see that several charitable foundations have millions of kroner locked on their bank accounts that they cannot spend on charity, and that is not how it should be in the future. The aim of the draft law is therefore to grant the funds freedom of choice to determine what inheritance and gifts should go to if the heirlooms or gift givers have not themselves taken a position. With these comments, I should once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions, and I look forward to their further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143320	We thank the Minister for Justice. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now we had to start with the first reading of motion for a resolution No. B-7, but I do not see the proposer. I think we are in a situation where we cannot draw it much longer, because we cannot start the debate on a motion for a resolution without the proposer being present in the Chamber. That is why, unfortunately, I have to postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143531	There was no need to postpone the sitting for five minutes, because now we have the people in the Chamber who should at least be here, so we are starting now. The debate is open. The Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143603	Thank you. Last year, at about the same time, we discussed motion for a resolution No. B 23, which dealt with the reduction of the age of driving licences to large mopeds to 16 years and to small motorcycle to 17 years. B 7, which we have on the agenda today, is a partial re-submission of B 23 from the last parliamentary year. With B 7 you want to set the age for driving licences to large mopeds down to 16 years. Today, as you know, the age limit is 18 years. There should be no doubt that the government considers it important to strengthen the mobility of young people, especially in the sparsely populated areas of Denmark, where among others. access to public transport can be sparing. Nevertheless, it is at least as important that age limits also make sense in relation to road safety, which the government places high emphasis on. As I indicated at the first reading on motion for a resolution No. B 23, the government therefore wanted a more in-depth study of the road safety consequences by reducing the age of driving licences to large mopeds and to small motorcycle. I therefore launched, after the first reading of B 23, an external expert study, which, among other things, was carried out. should highlight the road safety consequences by reducing the age limit for driving licences to 16 years for large mopeds and to 17 years for small motorcycle. The study, which DTU stands for, is expected to be completed within the next few weeks. When the final result of the study is available, as has already been announced, I would like to ask the Road Safety Commission to take the matter up. I think this is very relevant here, where we have a special task in relation to the balance between mobility and road safety. To sum up, the government agrees with the desire to support the mobility of young people, which is why the government is also in favour of the proposal, provided that it does not have significant negative consequences for road safety. The Government therefore looks forward to seeing the outcome of the external expert study and the Road Safety Commission's comments on the study. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143829	We thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204143850	Thank you very much. It is, of course, a re-submission of a proposal that has been tabled not long ago by the Danish People's Party, in relation to changing the rules on driving licences to large mopeds for young people. Originally, the proposal was also that one should have the opportunity to drive a small motorcycle sooner. The Danish People's Party has then taken this out of the proposal in order to focus on this. And that is what the Danish People's Party does because they focus on having better mobility for young people, especially in the province, where we know that there are many people living with distances to technical school, high school and other things where it is difficult to get by bicycle or walking legs and where, unfortunately, collective traffic opportunities are not so good. So there is no doubt, and we also said this when we dealt with the previous proposal, that the Danish People's Party focuses on a problem that exists especially in the province, where there are large transport distances and where there is really no alternative, so being able to run on a moped can help many. When we on the part of the Social Democrats have been sceptical about this in the past, it has been very much linked to road safety that we have been concerned about young people being injured. We saw it a lot in the 1970s and 1980s, when there were many young people driving on mopeds, and there were also many accidents and, unfortunately, too many fatal accidents. Now there are new figures showing that for those who actually run moped and if they run legally, there are actually very few accidents and there are no fatal accidents. There are figures from the Road Directorate which have been published, also by the Motorcycle Importer Association, which shows that there are very few accidents. We Social Democrats are impressed by this and we want to help ensure that there is better mobility for young people. Conversely, when it comes to something as important as road safety, you have to be absolutely sure before you change anything. Now we heard the Minister say before that, on the basis of the previous motion for a resolution, the Minister has launched such an external expert study which will be absolutely sure of what is happening with road safety here. There is our offer on the part of the Social Democratic Party to look at what that study then says when it comes. If it shows the same thing as what we have seen in the previous figures of the Road Directorate, which the Motorcycle Importer Association has put forward, namely that there are not so many accidents, we will probably be more positive about it. We can see, for example, that you could do something like this. A pilot scheme allowing you to have a period of driving licences for large mopeds at the age of 16, instead of having to wait, as today, until you are 18 years old. What is at stake is that there are many who choose to tune their mopeds, and that is much more risky than driving on an authorized moped 45, which is what you get with the big moped licence. The next is that if we look at the rules that exist in the European Union, we can see that Denmark is one of the most restrictive countries in this area. So there are arguments in favour of the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. Conversely, as soon as it has to do with safety, as soon as it has to do with human life, we must always be focused on safety. We therefore believe that it is a good idea to wait for the study mentioned by the Minister. But we are prepared in committee to follow this and possibly countries a positive report, which means that we are working constructively in this area because there is a need to meet the many young people who have a transport need.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144259	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144301	Thank you. And thank you for the nice mention of the proposal by the Social Democrats. It seems that there is a movement in the Social Democratic Party. What is a little interesting in relation to this study, which the Minister announces the result of here within 14 days, if we can trust it now, is that it might well tempt me to postpone the second reading, because then we are a little wiser, and then we will vote on an enlightened basis at least. I don't think this can be landed in another jar of jelly. We have made a great many of them, and this is the third time this proposal has been tabled in addition to a bill which the government asked me to put forward, which it then voted down. So this is looking like a farce. But I can live with the fact that we are withdrawing the second reading until the Minister has put this report on the table. What does the Social Democrat rapporteur say about that solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144356	We Social Democrats would have preferred that study to be ready now when we are dealing with this motion for a resolution. It would have made us have a better basis on which to decide. Now the Minister says that it is on the stairs, and although the procedure may not have been the quickest moped at the port, if you may say so, we have to wait for it to come and then we hope that there is a good basis for a decision. If it is, it turns out that there is no greater uncertainty about this, then we can see from the Social Democrats that we are making an experimental arrangement, because we just have to recognise that there are young people who are exceptionally difficult to get to and from their educational institution if they do not have the opportunity to take a moped. And we do not want to see some people forced to have to drill and tune their mopeds, thereby endangering their lives and health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144455	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144456	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the fact that there are already studies which show that it is not young people who, if they do not tune the moped, are injured or are killed in traffic; in fact, it is often and often the older a little more adult men who are involved in alcohol. We all know the ones with the green Arlaskasse in the back seat. Actually, that's where the accidents happen. And then it is a mystery to me that we must continue to prevent the mobility of young people by constantly shooting it to the point that it will be a battlefield. I am just thinking: the study now being carried out is at best untrustworthy if anything else should come out of DTU, but we can hardly believe it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144542	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144544	I mean, when it's like that, we're per. Instinct is a little nervous and uncertain about this, so it's because we remember how the numbers were in the 1970s and 1980s, where there were many accidents. It was in these Me and Charlie times where there was a lot of moped riding. Unfortunately, there were also many accidents. It is true that the study launched by the Motorcycle Importer Association shows 0 fatal accidents in a few years. So there is also a year in which there have been a few. And when it comes to security, we must be on the safe side, if that is the case. We do not want to challenge fate in this area, which is why we are a little reluctant. So we're looking at the investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144632	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204144639	Thank you for that, President. On 19 May 1976 was a great day of my life, a day I remember with great joy, for then I had butchered my piggy bank and armed with 5,000 kroner. In cash I went to the bike dealer Josefsen in Voldby near Hammel, and then I bought cash a brand-new Puck Grand Prix moped, and then I proudly drove home on it. It was indeed a great day. And it was because it was an incredible step forward that, as such, a boy who came from a village far, far out in the countryside, away from the big cities, where there were not many buses to drive, suddenly got the opportunity to drive around on a moped. You could drive all the way to Fjellerup Strand and all sorts of other places. It was an enormous sense of happiness. I also think there are many young people today who have the feeling when they get the opportunity to run on mopeds. Fortunately, here in the Danish Parliament we have carried out the task of buying a small moped again and acquiring a driving licence for it and driving on it from the age of 15 we have adopted it. The Danish People's Party now proposes that we go further and say that you can drive on the big moped that can drive 45 km/h from 16 years of age instead of 18 years. We in the Left think this is a very good proposal. It is a natural continuation of our strategy with a more step-by-step approach to the two-wheel motorised vehicles, and a step-by-step approach is everything else just something that strengthens our road safety. So I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for this proposal. After all, it is no secret that the Left itself, together with Mr. By the way, Kim Christiansen and the Liberal Alliance helped formulate this proposal back in 2014. There we went one step further because we also connected small motorcycle, but this is all about big mopeds. When we are positive about this, it is precisely the mobility of young people living in rural areas, and fortunately many young people are still doing so. Not all of them live in towns, where there are public transport services in all directions. We must give young people more freedom. However, when we consider changing the rules for this, we must of course ensure that, and we must always ensure that road safety is in order. We want to increase mobility in society, but safety must be in order. And that is why it is also the case that the Minister has initiated, when we dealt with B 23 last year, a study at DTU which is just ahead of us, I understand, and of course we shall look forward to it with anticipation. It comes in a few weeks, it sounds like. There is also the fact that we have proposed here that we should be able to drive a number of new technological vehicles, among others. These Speed Pedelecs. After all, it is a partly electric vehicle with an auxiliary electric engine that can run up to 45 km/h. on a good day, and I guess there's no requirement for a driver's license. It also puts this in a little relief and leads to a conclusion that it may well work with mopeds. We also note in the Left that Denmark has the EU's absolutely most restrictive legislation in the case of mopeds. We have to be 18 years old in Denmark, and in no other EU country you have to be over 16 years old in order to drive mopeds in some countries it is even as low as 14 years to drive a big moped. So that also puts things in a bit of relief. Then a Norwegian study has been carried out on moped accidents, as it is called up there, over a number of years, and it is quite interesting reading. Sir. Kim Christiansen mentioned it, and it shows, among other things, that when accidents happen, it is because something has gone wrong, that is, that you do not comply with the rules. Many have drove without a helmet, some have not had a driver's license, some have tuned their mopeds, others have drove around drunken, perhaps with an Arlaskasse on the luggage carrier, and then there have been technical faults with the mopeds. So it is not the driving of a legal, approved moped with a driving licence that causes accidents. I hope DTU has taken that Norwegian study into their analysis of this and looks forward to it. So, on this basis, I can conclude that the Left is very positive about this proposal. Now we look forward to seeing DTU's analysis, which is why I am in line with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, namely that we are discussing the matter in the Committee on Transport, when we have had DTU's investigation, and then we could perhaps land it with a report with the aim of having a legislative proposal tabled as soon as possible in 2019. But let us now look at that analysis before we draw the final conclusion. Very good proposal from the Danish People's Party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145156	It says on the very first page when you look up at the Council for Safe Traffic, about mopeds, and it flashes straight into your head: Moped is the means of transport which carries the greatest risk of being killed or seriously injured in relation to the number of kilometres driven. In our opinion, that in itself is enough to be very, very careful, not to say enough, to go into proposals which, in our view, clearly reduce road safety. It is ten times more dangerous, according to statistics, to drive a moped than to drive a bike, again per year. mileage. Although there has been less moped traffic in recent years, this does not mean that the risk, when you actually drive a moped, is eliminated. I think that is problematic. The Maritime Commission on Road Traffic Accidents, which I believe it is officially called, has just carried out a detailed study, as they call it, of exactly moped accidents and has divided them into categories under 20 years and over 20 years. The conclusions are very clear for the age group under the age of 20. Young people generally drive much more risky than older people on mopeds. It's also a pattern we know from elsewhere. The average speed is considerably higher and it is true that tuned mopeds are being driven. However, and I think this is actually directly mentioned in the depth analysis, there is also much more chastity, much more inattentiveness in this regard, and you drive without a helmet, because this is not considered to be a very high risk, probably. The depth analysis clearly shows that there is a high risk behaviour in young people's moped driving, which is justified with less experience of driving, a lack of awareness of yourself and how you are in traffic and relate to other road users, a high degree of overestimate of your own traffic skills, and it is also mentioned that young people are probably more likely to seek out excitement and act impulsively. And this is the age group that will then be given the opportunity to drive moped 45, i.e. the large mopeds. Frankly, we do not think this is a very good idea, on the contrary. After all, there is a reason why Denmark is at the top in terms of road safety. It is also said by the rapporteur of the Left that we have very, very restrictive legislation in various areas of road traffic legislation, not least with regard to, for example, road safety. driving licence and age for taking a driving licence. It is true that we have an age limit of 18 years in order to be able to drive large mopeds and small motorcycle, where, according to the directive on driving licences, it is 16 years old in the European Union. In fact, we think this is a very good idea for some of the reasons I have just mentioned, which are confirmed by this in-depth analysis. This proposal also relates to a number of other proposals, and I wonder a little. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kim Christiansen is also chairman of the Road Safety Commission, but Mr. Kim Christiansen is behind any proposal which, in our opinion, is moving in the wrong direction with regard to road safety: increasing speeds evenly along the road, tempo 100 buses, campers and caravans, increasing speed on selected motorways, motorway roads and also on highways, and also reducing driving age when it was reduced from 16 to 15 years. But I would like to remind you that when the age of 15 to 16 was raised back in 1980 it was because of an enormous increase in the number of accidents seen because of a reduction in the age of 15 in 1971. So we think it is a bad proposal and we do not intend to vote in favour of it, despite what may come from reports from DTU and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145706	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145709	I think it's amazing. The Enhedslisten is based here on a depth analysis, which seems to predict a lot of scenarios, and talks about the young people who drive without a helmet running on tuned mopeds, but these are not the ones for which we stand today and have to make legislation. After all, it is the young people who can find out how to drive 45 km/h, and who can do so in a responsible way, wearing a crash helmet and with the appropriate training, so that they can have the mobility that they scream at, especially in the outskirtsdanmark, where one bus route after another is shut down. Public transport, as Mr. Henning Hyllested otherwise is a great advocate, just doesn't exist in all parts of the country. That is why this is a good way of giving young people mobility. Then I do not think we should go in and punish some people on the basis of some depth analysis, which also says that there has not really been an increase in the number of people killed and injured among the 15-year-olds after they were allowed to run mopeds. So I think the arguments are falling a little apart, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145818	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145819	Then it might have been an idea to maintain some of the bus routes and the public traffic, but it might not have to be in the form of large buses. We have said many times that it is easy to devise and devise different types of public transport in which we could then invest, just as they do, for example. has done in North Jutland. It was perhaps a better idea than to start reducing the age of driving licences to ensure some form of mobility. Now there is the deep analysis that has been carried out, after all, a deep analysis which has been carried out on the basis of accidents that have occurred. There you've gone in and tried to analyze why they happened. One of the conclusions is quite clear that young people are far more risky than older people. So these are some of the young people who are now covered by being able to drive large mopeds from 16 years of age. So that includes some of those that have been examined in this in-depth analysis. We must therefore be aware that this includes some of these young people who are then released on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145923	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204145925	You can decide on a lot of circumstantial evidence and a belief that something will get worse. Now, as chairman of the Road Safety Commission, I was told that under no circumstances could I propose higher speeds. Yes, it could, and I can certainly, as long as it happens safely. When we do this for cars and so on, we do so at the same time as creating better and safer conditions on the roads. I should also like to remind you that many years ago, when the Road Safety Commission started its work, there were well on the other side of 1,000 people killed in car traffic. This has not led us to ban cars. So I'm just saying, sir. Henning Hyllested was supposed to agree with me that there has actually been no increase in the number of people killed and injured since we lowered the age to 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150011	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150012	That does not change the fact that mopeds are one of the most dangerous vehicles we have when we talk about the risk of injury. This does not change because there has been a decrease in the volume of moped driving at all. That is why we want to see a reduction in the number of accidents of one kind or another. This does not alter the fact that mopeds are one of the most dangerous vehicles. That was a reason why I mentioned that Denmark is at the top in terms of road safety why not take the full win? This also applies to all those increases in speed and so on, because we have now got safer cars and safer roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150054	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Henning Hyllested and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Henning Hyllested. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150104	Thank you for the floor. There are many factors involved when young people have to choose whether to live their lives where they were born and raised or whether to move to a larger city as soon as possible. It is, after all, a real problem that we see in Denmark that we crawl together in larger cities. It causes other problems and makes other demands on how we should service each other. Association life and other opportunities help determine young people's choices as to whether they can continue to live in outlying areas of Denmark when they reach the age of higher education. We often talk about bias, and here in the Chamber we make many decisions about moving things out, which then have to balance Denmark, but it was perhaps more obvious to ensure that more people chose to stay there themselves. One of the things that determines whether young people think it is good to be there in addition to the things I have mentioned is, of course, that they can also participate in things in areas other than the immediate area, for example. in connection with education or association life, or whatever else you can imagine. As has already been mentioned here from the platform, a bus does not come by every half hour and therefore we actually owe it to other people in these areas to take account of young people. One of the proposals is that, sir. Kim Christiansen, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, says here today that we can move the age limit for driving on a vehicle that can move somewhere else in a reasonable time, and that is what the proposal is about. That is why I would like to say that it is a good proposal that the Danish People's Party is making. Of course it must be made responsible; there is no doubt about that. And now that it has been put forward before and it has been decided to carry out a study, the result of which is on the right track, there are two options here, I think. Sir. Kim Christiansen has mentioned that as an option we could postpone the second reading, but if we then have a result before we finish the final reading here in the Folketing, it may almost matter which way we choose, so I think it is wise to wait for the result. But if the result shows what we expect and if not all warning lights blink and signal that this is irresponsible, then of course the Liberal Alliance is ready to vote in favour of a proposal that guarantees the opportunity that is being given here. So we're in and we think it's due diligence. Maybe things are moving a little faster, but now Mr. Knox is... Kim Christiansen is an impatient man, and therefore he does not want to wait for an answer, but comes up with this proposal and focuses on it. But we are positive when we reach that time. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they share the same view on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150356	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150359	Thank you. Of course, I am delighted to hear that. I would have expected that too, since the Liberal Alliance has been a co-sponsor of a similar proposal in the past. It should then be strange if one had completely changed one's attitude. But now you just want a lot of research. You didn't do that at the time. I am a little reassured by the fact that somewhere you have the same basic attitude in the Liberal Alliance. Then you can just hope that you also get completely confident before we have to press the green buttons, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150436	Sir. Kim Christiansen knows very well that we always stand by what we say exactly and in cash to the end of the road. So, sir... Kim Christiansen calmly count on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150450	It did not give rise to any more brief remarks, so we thank Mr. Leif Mikkelsen and move on to Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150454	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with B 7, draft parliamentary resolution on driving licences for large mopeds for 16-year-olds, and this has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs so that I can be brief. After all, mobility is important not least in our rural and peripheral areas, but also, of course, within the city. We would also like to wait and hear what that report says, and besides that, I am also a little concerned about our young people watching you young people listening from the gallery and those watching, I would like to say that I am concerned about our drinking habits and our consumption of alcohol, and I am concerned that we, as Mr. Henning Hyllested also says, is quite likely to be a little overconfident in terms of our abilities. And that's not because we don't already have the opportunity to drive there's a moped that drives 30 km/h. These are some of the questions that I hope the report can answer, i.e. what it looks like in relation to alcohol culture and moped driving... are we good enough to stop each other, and are we good enough to stop driving ourselves? I do not think I have anything else, so in those words I would say that we are immediately leaning towards not being able to support it, but we are, of course, awaiting the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150638	I'll give Mr. Kim Christiansen from DF praised that he showed great perseverance in this area. Maybe I remember wrong, sir. Kim Christiansen, but I think this is the fourth time that I have been in Parliament since I was elected in 2011. Mr. Kim Christiansen and Dansk Folkeparti to get implemented that the age limit for what is called small moped has been reduced from 16 to 15 years, and I understand from the debate that the government has initiated an analysis or asked DTU to do an analysis based on the resolution that was before to look at this. Like a number of my colleagues, we in the Radical Left are always willing to hear new knowledge from DTU, which means that this can be done without too much damage to road safety. But so far, our answer to Mr. Kim Christiansen the same as it was last time, because when we look at the Council for Safe Traffic reports and notes on this subject, we see that today there are simply too many accidents and accidents among young people on both large and small mopeds and what is called small motorcycle that we do not think it would be sensible to lower the age limit. We believe it is most likely, even if you look at the experience of other countries, that there will be more serious road accidents if you lower the age limit. So so far the answer is no, just as it was the last time, but we are, of course, willing to accept new knowledge if this is to be included in the report ordered by the government. In those words, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150836	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150841	Thank you. I know, of course, that the rapporteur's party supports the European Union, and I think it is sometimes funny when I see the Danish People's Party electing and rejecting when we should harmonise and not harmonise and be appreciative of the European Union. I do not know whether the rapporteur can comment on this request by the Danish People's Party to harmonise the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150908	I would like to make a comment on that. However, I would like to make the reservation that this is not something we in the Radical Left have thought very much about, whether the age limit for the use of mopeds should be harmonised. At first sight, my position will be that it should not be harmonised. In fact, I think this is a good national decision because I believe that there can be a great difference between how young people want to use a moped or how many accidents there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150938	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204150944	I do not know if there is so much disagreement, since Denmark is the only country to have this strange age limit. But what I was actually going to ask the rapporteur is in relation to what Mr. Andreas Steenberg says that many more accidents occur among young people because of these mopeds. Now, as chairman of the Road Safety Commission, I have noticed that the Radicals are not exactly the most diligent participants at our meetings. But if you now started to come to those meetings, you would also be able to see from the statistics that we have most recently been presented that there is not that increase, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg stands and presents, almost as if it were the eternal truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151028	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151029	It is true that there is no increase. However, there is a marked over-representation, which means that there are more accidents involving motorcycles and large mopeds than with other means of transport among young people than among the rest of the population. And that's my point. But I'm sorry if it didn't come out clear enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151048	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg and move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151059	Well, I'm just gonna have to start the same place as mr. Andreas Steenberg did, by admiring Mr. Kim Christiansen's enthusiasm and persistence about the conditions attached to the possibility of mobility. And I also fully acknowledge Mr. Kim Christiansen's aim to increase mobility for young people and where mopeds can be a good opportunity. We can then see today that there is a report on the way that might change the basis of our discussion so that we can fully clarify both the benefits and the risks of lowering the age limit. But I have to say that the SF is very critical of this combination of having young people with a great deal of bravery and a small overview and, on the other hand, having a vehicle that is dangerous, the statistics show. This makes it very difficult for SF to support the proposal, but we are always open to new insights, so if the report announced by DTU should show something quite different from previous studies and statistics, then of course we will reconsider our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151217	We thank the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151231	Thank you. It's almost a bit difficult where you have to start in all these toasts and beautiful words and good intentions... so the young people don't get to go mopeding off. But let me start with the Minister's words that this external investigation is very important and that it is also important to consult the Road Safety Commission. I do not know when the Road Safety Commission has become the ninth or tenth party in this Parliament because they have a role to play in making proposals on how to ensure that fewer people are killed. Their role is not to assess all sorts of different draft legislation in the transport sector. That is what we politicians have to decide on. Of course, we're looking at it, but it's a little strange. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party. Now I don't know where mr. Rasmus Prehn has fled, but thanks for the nice words, and yet I sense that there is a change of attitude in the social democracy towards the right decision, as we think it is: giving young people the right to drive moped 16. In the 1970s there was an experimental scheme for 15-year-olds, to which many refer. I was one of them myself, and it was amazing. I completely share Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's enthusiasm. What a mobility you got. But shouldn't ask anyone any more. You could just drive around, and yes, they were probably tuned a little, and the helmet thing wasn't everybody's thing. And then, of course, it has to go wrong. But what we are talking about here is not that we are trying to make legislation in which we say that now we want 16-year-olds to drive without a crash helmet and on tuned mopeds and, by the way, to drive like idiots in traffic. Well, there I have to admit and I have read it myself many times, and I have also helped write it that it does not say anything about it. Nor does it say that we should all now look in some crystal ball and pretend to be fortune-tellers and come up with all kinds of predictions and horror scenarios that do not exist. We have tractors, and there you have to be 16 years old. It was fine when you took 3 hours of driving lessons on a tractor, and then you got out driving the gray Ferguson out in the fields. Nowadays, you have plots of land in all kinds of places, and you drive around with truckloads of 50 tonnes with these agricultural machines. It's 16-year-olds driving on the roads with 50 tonnes of manure. They're gonna have to drive 40 miles an hour. It's not dangerous, the politicians say no, no. But driving a moped 45 on the road with proper driving lessons is dangerous. This is a complete hole in the head, and it just shows that there is no common thread in our legislation. We have just passed or we are at least on our way to the fact that the new electric bikes that can drive 45 km/h will have to drive 15-year-olds then. Of course they have to wear a bicycle helmet, it's obvious it was missing because it should all be riding a bike. But there you can drive 45 km/h on something that at least does not have the same driving characteristics and the same braking function and the same safety as a moped 45 has. We simply lack a common thread in what we are doing. In a moment we also allow electric scooters that can run 25 km/h. on the sidewalk and at least it does not pose a risk. But that's the way it is. I have commented a little on the Enhedslisten, and then the Radicals praised me for my perseverance. Well, that's really why we're here. I think the voters expect us to be persistent and to work for what we believe in. I would just like to remind you that I think this is actually the first time that my memory has let me down a little bit, under the authority of the Socialist Government, that a united blue bloc tabled this motion for a resolution. Then the blue parties got the power, and then suddenly it was as if all this had left them overnight. Now it was very problematic. So you ran from one to the other. It is true that yes, I put it again with the little bikes, but there was no mood for that. Then the current government came and asked if I would not make a legislative proposal if they otherwise drew it up, and then at the eleventh hour it seemed that it would not be done anyway, so it was chosen to vote against it. So it is not just something that the Danish People's Party has driven forward. This has been done by various parties, but it is as if you are actually changing attitudes as the weather changes outside; whether it is raining or snowing. But I do hope that the electorate will be able to see through the enormous credibility which, like all these parties, is pervading. I would remind you that we are the only country in Europe that has this ridiculous age limit. Sweden has an age limit of 15 years and no statistics indicate that it should be much more dangerous there. And several others have referred to various studies, all of which point in the same direction, namely that there is no higher risk of having 16-year-olds drive these mopeds. Well, I guess there's some sir. Roger Courage Matthisen has mentioned something about young people's drinking habits and things like that. Yes, but listen, a gun is also dangerous if you turn it wrong, isn't it? Then you can get hurt with it. You can do that with a kitchen knife if you go at the wrong end of it. Anything can be harmed if you treat it inappropriately and not in relation to what the tool in question is designed for. I'll let this go to the second reading, and then we'll see if the minister can kick a little to DTU and get this investigation up in the next 14 days as promised, because anything else would be a declaration of failure. And then we can actually have a second reading before Christmas, hopefully by a very large majority, which will then give young people the opportunity to have a moped 45 for Christmas and increase their mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151850	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204151855	I think that Mr. Kim Christiansen tries to minimize the things and the knowledge that there is in this area after all. When I have very diligently referred to this depth analysis that has just come, it is precisely because it is an analysis that is being made to get to the bottom of, penetrate into why the accidents are happening. And that's, no matter what, sir. Kim Christiansen says, incontrovertibly, that one of the conclusions is that there is overconfidence among young people and that they are driving more risky, and that it is they, namely the young people from 16 years of age, who will now be able to drive on large mopeds instead of only in goose eyes on small mopeds. They will then have the opportunity to drive on a large moped, which drives faster and which is heavier, at least in most cases, and it is a conclusion that they are therefore running more risky. Of course, it will be seen in accident statistics along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152001	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152003	I'd like to say to Mr. Henning Hylllested, that I'm not trying to minimize this, but vice versa, I'm not gonna stand here and yell at the wolf and say it's gonna be awful and it's gonna flow with young people around that's gonna get hurt with these moped 45s. You have to be 18 years old and have a driver's license to drive on a moped 45. You have to be 15 years old to be able to ride an e-bike that can do the same. You have to be 16 years old to drive with 50 tonnes of agricultural equipment on public roads. Of course I am not the questioner in this case, but I would just like to point out that I do not think I am trivialising. I think that I am trying to bring a piece of common sense into our legislation, so that as a young person you get some sort of moving process, so that you don't come from riding a moped 30 or an e-bike, and then at 18-year-old you just borrow your father's BMW with 250 horsepower. Is that responsible? I don't think it is. That's like when the kids get to drink a beer at the age of 15, you start pouring half a bottle of vodka into them. There has to be some reason in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152112	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152114	Yes, but sir. Kim Christiansen also said in his rapporteur's speech that anything can be harmed if it is not dealt with properly, that is, if we do not treat things according to the rules or follow the rules. Yes, yes, but that's exactly why we make the rules, because not all people do. It is, of course, like it says in the Law of Jutland, that if everyone just complied with the rules and did what they had to do, then there was no need to have legislation at all. But that is why we have legislation. It is because people do not comply with the rules that exist and then we need to have some sanctions in order to take action. But there is no reason, if I may say so, to relax the rules of a larger group, which is evidently running more risky and in danger of becoming more unhappy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152204	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152205	When we first discussed this in the Parliamentary Chamber, we also tightened the legislation in relation to taking a driving licence to a moped 30, and there was also legislation that it could be tightened if it had been reduced to 16 years for a moped 45. After all, we have really tightened up in relation to driving training, and the vehicles today are very, very safe. I find it difficult to see that this could increase the risk of injuries and deaths in traffic, and no statistics have been able to support this, as so far. So I think you're a little on thin ice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152250	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152304	The debate is open. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152318	Thank you. We are dealing here with L 115 about a postponement of the property valuations. The short story as a prelude to this is that we in the Danish Parliament have created a new system for how to assess the properties in the future and subsequently be able to tax them. Following the agreement, a huge project has been set in motion to develop an IT support that can help to make the assessments, and there you have got into the unfortunate situation now... we have been informed by the Treasury that the assessments cannot be completed in time, and that we are naturally asked, as a consequence of what Parliament is now asking, to postpone the new property assessments by 1 year. This means so much naturally that the old assessments, i.e. those from 2011, continue a year extra. The explanation was supposed to be that the case and document management system, such as: must handle these declarations, which must be sent out to people before, and where they can see what is behind their assessment • the entire assessment proposal, and how to handle the individual cases • cannot be completed on time. In the light of this, of course, there is also a postponement of the new assessment board, which will then enter into force on 1 January 2020 instead. We can then ask as a political party: what is to be said about that? Yeah, I guess we don't have a choice either. Because should we demand that we put this system into operation before it was even ready? No, I guess we couldn't. Or should we start taxing on some assessments that are not there? Of course, neither can we. So we only have one option, as I see it as Parliament, and it is, of course, to say yes to the fact that, unfortunately, we now have to postpone the property assessments further, unfortunately because the timetable is now getting so tight that if there is another delay, there can be quite a lot of consequences. Because if you look at when the legally binding assessments start, it is after July 2020, and already in January 2021, six months later, you have to start taxing according to the new rules. In any case, we can say that in my party we have a little concern as to whether this is the last delay we will have. Because there is still a lot of uncertainty and a great risk in the development of this IT project, and that is why we fear a great deal and are afraid of what we are doing if we get to another delay, and I think we can get to that. It is not because I hope so, but I fear it very much, also because it is a complicated system, and when you look at how it has traditionally been with IT systems in the history of the state over the past many years, at least nobody has typically been finished on time. So I very much fear that this system too may have a further delay with quite major consequences later on. As I said, however, I find it difficult to say anything other than to vote in favour of this because there is no other choice either. Because we cannot demand that houses be assessed on the basis of a system that is not clear endu. So we have to hope and cross our fingers so that this is the last postponement of the property valuations, and then we will have both a good system and a more proper basis to tax on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152623	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152634	Thank you for that, and thank you for the flexibility so that we could just switch once. As has been explained, the draft law is, after all, about postponing the phasing-in of the new property assessment system by one year, as it is not yet in line with the system. In other words, making the assessment itself is actually quite a long way off, and we have also had the demonstration that we could show up at the Development and Simplification Board, but the whole system that comes with where to deal with cases, document and have exchanges with citizens is not ready yet. Therefore, it is necessary for the tax minister to come up with this bill and do the second postponement of the new property assessments, first by a quarter and now by another year. I feel very much like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there is not so much to do. We can't start it when it's not ready. That is why we will also support the bill. I am in the somewhat unusual situation of speaking on behalf of both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left and the SF at the moment, as I am standing here. I wonder if this could be the case after a parliamentary election, the majority should change. That could be really nice. We may not be that lucky, but they have the same point of view. I would like to add this to the fact that it is, at all, a problematic situation that we are in when people, citizens, are taxed on the basis of assessments that come back from 2011-2012. We have included the possibility of complaining, and the very fact that it is being cleaned up is therefore extremely important; it must be one of the very highest priorities for the tax minister in this parliamentary term to achieve it. This cannot be the case during this parliamentary term, because the system must be postponed once again. I think that is necessary on behalf of all those who pay property taxes, for example. on the basis of an assessment which is known to be too high. This is the case, not least in many small rural towns outside the areas where economic progress has been greatest. So you pay tax today on an assessment that is too high and you are therefore in a position to get money back. We will still have that, and we will also have it for the extra year when we pay too much, but it is not a good situation we are in, we have to say, and I think that is also worth noting and acknowledging to those people who have to pay taxes for another year on an assessment which is actually well known to be too high. However, with these comments, I would like to say that we support the draft law and hope that this will then be the last postponement of the new property assessment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152922	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204152930	Thank you. It should have been the Left's tax rapporteur Louise Schack Elholm who was standing here, but unfortunately she is suffering from illness. But it will be in the family and, as a former tax rapporteur, I know the area here very well. Problems with property assessments hit our entire tax system hard, and work has been done for a number of years to create a new and credible property assessment system. There has also been a long political process around it, and a broad settlement has been reached on property valuations and the property tax system. This guarantees the Danes security of housing taxation, and I think it is very positive that there is a broad political majority behind it. But when it comes to IT systems, there is always uncertainty. Also taught by past experience, it is probably a good idea to wait until the IT systems are fully operational to press the start button. Unfortunately, we have to deal with that here in the Folketing. It is therefore quite reasonable to postpone the assessments because the IT systems are simply not ready. Some of it is starting to work quite well, but it is of no use that part of the system works if the rest of the system cannot support it. It is, of course, about the Danes having to have as accurate assessments as possible, so that you experience justice and fairness when you pay your property taxes, so that you can recognize the assessment in relation to what you experience when you look out the window and notice what others are dealing with their property. Then, of course, one's assessment must also be proportionate to that. However, as I said, when the IT system, in particular what is called the document management system in the Assessment Board, is not clear, then we must push the timetable slightly. That is basically what the draft law ensures. It is of course a pity that things are not going as fast as we would like. However, just to follow up on the rapporteur's speech by the Social Democrat tax rapporteur, it has the importance that the homeowners who pay too much in housing tax are still getting the money back. So nobody's gonna pay more than they had to. On the other hand, there are some homeowners who unintentionally have a little too low housing tax, and then they get the pleasure of having one more year with a slightly lower housing tax. I would say that I think it is a good starting point that we in the Danish Parliament can choose to be on the side of the citizens, so that the errors in the tax system in the assessment system do not mean that anyone will pay more than they should. The money's coming back. And those who let go a little cheaper than calculated, yes, they get to one more year. When this delay occurs, which is of course regrettable, it is therefore positive that it is not the pockets of the citizens that we are getting the money in. That is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153301	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153316	The draft law deals with the delayed property assessment system and its fiscal consequences. There's kind of not much to say about this bill. We cannot, here from Parliament's platform, conjure up an IT system that works and complies with the original timetables. If the government is not ready with new property assessments, the old people will have to move on until hopefully the new ones will soon be in place. It is then surprising that when the new system was launched, an ambitious timetable was deliberately set. I guess it's translated into newspeak an unrealistic schedule. And not even infinite amounts of extra money added through numerous files has made the project succeed so far, at least. There is no doubt that people in the tax administration are working hard, and hopefully it will end with a good system, but it is not very clear that we should now stand here and make legislation because the deadline has not been met. The Enhedslisten is not included in the Housing Tax Agreement, among others. because it in its crowns and ears serves the people who already have the most expensive homes. The property assessment agreement shall be seen in the context of this Agreement. On the basis of what I have said here, the Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur expects the Enhedslisten to vote yellow at the third reading, as this bill concerns changes to the law necessitated by a delayed property assessment system, and in that light the adjustment is fair enough. Moreover, as we read the bill, the government has not taken advantage of the situation to create new special tax rebates, etc. in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153456	We thank the rapporteur. And then I have the feeling that the representative of the Liberal Alliance is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153509	Thank you for that, President. That is true, and that is because it has gone very fast in this Chamber today, and that means that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen is in another meeting at the moment. That's why I'm the one who got the job. It's a bit awkward, 'cause this is actually a nasty bill. After all, in Denmark we have a completely dysfunctional property assessment system, which means that you collect billions of dollars in property taxes on the basis of erroneous assessments. It is, of course, disappointing that the timetable for the new property assessment system cannot keep up. Having said that, I think it is important to ensure that the timetable is adapted to what can actually be done with certainty. It is not a disaster to postpone the timetable; it would be a disaster to launch a new system that contained so many errors that it could not restore the Danes' confidence that their properties would be properly assessed. When you look at how the present system has turned into a disaster, this is largely due to a lack of adaptation to actual developments. When the timetable was followed, it began to expand what the system should be able to do so that the overall expected economy could be respected. It couldn't do that anyway. And in addition, we had immense problems in the SKAT. And when these IT systems go off track, we'll shoot ourselves in the foot if we pretend it doesn't require adjustments. So I think it is a good thing that the legislative proposal takes the consequence of not getting as far as you thought you would go, and that is why I can just say that, in this context, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153653	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204153713	Thank you. Now the various rapporteurs have already said some of the things that I also thought I would say, but something I would just mention is that it is not only citizens who are affected by this, it is also, as we can see in the consultation answers, companies who remain on uncertain grounds because of the postponement of this law. I think we should also bear in mind that this is true for companies such as the United States, Japan and the United States. Agriculture & Food highlights the importance of knowing which property assessments apply to their businesses, including: in connection with the transfer and, in general, the valuation of their businesses. So in this area too, we need to pay attention. Overall, I am thinking of the fact that hurry is a burden, and if we hurry too much, we will have political action, but then we will probably also appear to be politicians who sloppy and in this way it will become opaque and citizens will lose confidence in democracy. So in this case, it's a delicate balance. We can't say anything against postponing this, but companies have also had a rather short period of time in terms of responding to this, and this creates uncertainty. I am aware that the Minister is a minister of a ministry that does not exactly lack work, and perhaps it is also a long time since they have suffered from that problem. But I would also like to say that I am confident that the Minister will manage to navigate the best possible within the given framework, and that is why we must constantly question the availability of resources and ensure that the people, the professionals who actually sit and work with it here every day and try to solve these problems, are given what is necessary. We must show them that respect. I would therefore urge the Minister to let us know if there is anything we need to be aware of there. One might say that there are two areas in our society in particular in which I think we invest very important here, and one is our children, the other is our tax administration. We supported the amendment of the Property Assessment Act in 2017, and we also support this proposal, because despite the hasty treatment it is precisely not to rush through a high-risk IT system and, as the Liberal Alliance also notes, it makes very good sense to take into account the adjustments that are coming along the way and not to throw us into some kind of disaster which would create further uncertainty and which we must try to avoid. Then, in the committee's work, I will be able to clarify the small technical details of the legislative proposal which I could not really see through in this very short time, so I am sure there is nothing in it that we have missed. But as a starting point, we are positive and we are voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154016	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154027	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here is, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, to continue the current assessments for one year more than was previously provided for, and then to postpone the new property assessment system. In the Conservative People's Party, however, we support the bill. It is, of course, disappointing that this is necessary, but as other rapporteurs also mentioned, one can also say that when we are in this situation, we have hardly any choice but to back it up. We basically think that Danish homeowners are taxed very heavily in Denmark. We also think they are being taxed too heavily. Rising housing taxes are pushing Danish families and not least Danish pensioners. Basically, we also believe that we should not be able to be taxed out of one's own home if, for example, we do not want to be taxed out of one's own home. has bought and paid it, and it is precisely such a thing as rising housing taxes that create insecurity about the housing owners' economy. We then got rid of that uncertainty when we made the housing agreement. But there is still uncertainty about the property assessments, and now the launch of the new system is so postponed, and that is really a pity. On the other hand, of course, we also understand the need to be absolutely sure that you have a system that works before assessing the 1.7 million homes that the new system has to deal with. It is complex, and unfortunately we have had very bitter and expensive experiences in the past with complex systems in the former SKAT. And that is why I think it is actually sensible to pull the brakes and ensure that the system is in order before it is started. The new system must help rebuild the property owners' confidence in the valuations, which is why it must also work from day one. It would simply be detrimental to confidence in the tax administration if the system were not ready from the outset. And it has to be said that it is a trust that we are already struggling hard to rebuild. That is why we support the postponement, so that we reduce the risk of initiating a faulty system. I also think it is important to say that there are no homeowners who are going to pay more taxes because of this delay. On the contrary, it is the other way around, because there will be a number of homeowners who will be saving a little tax because of this. So, after all, it's a Band-Aid on the wound. With these comments, we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154301	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154310	Thank you. I cannot, of course, as such thank you for a good debate, because there have been quite a number of excellent contributions from the rapporteur, with roughly the same content and not much debate. I think there is a reason for this, and that is that there is not much to discuss in this matter. It is no secret that I, as I believe, also apply to all the rapporteurs who have spoken here from Parliament's Chair of Speaking, would of course have liked the new assessment system to be ready to send out new assessments for 2018, and that we had been this proposal in addition. However, what is most crucial for me as Minister for Taxation, and I can hear that is also crucial for the rapporteurs who have stood here in the Chair and said that they support the proposal, is that we are learning from the mistakes of the past and are not putting new IT systems into operation until they have sufficient quality and have been properly tested, knowing that it has the cost of a longer period of time before new and more right-wing property assessments can be broadcast to the homeowners. It is not desirable, but it is the conditions in the iron industry, if you like. In general terms, I think that we politicians should be aware that work on large-scale IT projects is complicated and sometimes can be unpredictable and changes in timetables may be necessary. In any case, I can say that is the lesson in tax matters and, on behalf of my relatively many predecessors, do not commission IT systems that you are not sure will work. Then there is the risk of creating even more problems than there were before they were put into operation. It is important for me and the government that the Danes get better and more transparent assessments and that we are on safe ground before sending legally binding assessments out to 1.7 million home owners in Denmark. We have come a long way with the new assessment system not as far as we would like, but really far. The first part of the system has been developed, tested and put into service. The assessment board, which is the new authority, has been built up and a substantial part of the data to be used to assess a dwelling as properly as possible has been collected. However, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, we need some things to put everything in place, and that is what we are doing, among other things. on the development of the case and document management system so that each home owner's case is handled in a safe and uniform manner by the Assessment Board. To put it a little popular, it is the part about mass management that is, the tax administration, because you make annual and tax returns for hundreds of thousands of companies and millions of Danes, is really good for you not being in line with the timetable that has been in this case. That is, of course, regrettable. We also need to be fully in line with the declaration for the valuation announcements, which gives the property owners an overview of the properties and an insight into the information underlying their assessments. However, in order for the Danes to be able to trust the system that is coming and the politicians as well, in 2019, in other words next year, we will be offering up to 80,000 homeowners a non-legally binding assessment. It must ensure that we have the new system tested in reality, if you like, on real property owners, before we send out legally binding assessments to all homeowners. I think it would be good, both for the dialogue between homeowners and for the quality of the assessment system, for us to take into account how citizens react. And 80,000 homeowners are a relatively large amount of tests. So, overall, the legislative proposal must help to ensure that we have better conditions for the last part of the work on new assessments and that citizens not only receive new, but also better, assessments. There have been some comments during the consultation process. This is true, for example. the valuations of agricultural properties where Agriculture & Food calls for the abolition of periodic farm property valuations to be reconsidered. And as the consultation form also shows, and I am saying this here just to bring to the attention of all parties in the Folketing, especially those who are part of the agreement, what has been sent to the Folketing prior to the first reading, I have given the assurance as Minister of Taxation that I would like to look at the possibility that, as for other properties, however, there can be continuous assessments of these agricultural properties that Agriculture & Food wants. It is clear that it will have to be discussed in the conciliation circle and, in addition, it necessarily presupposes that we find out how to finance this extra cost, which is nevertheless limited. I hope that it is possible to take into account some of the wishes that exist now that there is a little more time. I think the concern expressed here by Agriculture & Food is extremely sensible. I have promised that I will discuss this with the conciliation circle, and I hope we can find a good solution to it. In those words, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154809	A brief comment was made by Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154813	There are two things I really want to do. I know that may be dangerous in these brief remarks, but I will try anyway. The first must be a positive reception of what the tax minister says here in the end. I do not think that is an unreasonable demand either. I have also received and heard that view from Agriculture & Food, and if that approach is possible without any further delay or without it being very costly, then I think we should look at it. And I can hear from the tax minister that he's going to invite some kind of meeting about it in the conciliation circle. We take a positive view of this and I hope we can resolve it together in a memorable manner. The second must then be a question of the risk which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, in other words, whether this is the last delay. What does the tax minister think is the assurance that it is enough to make the delay by a year? I would almost rather give a clear message as to how long it should last than that we should come after it over and over again. What is the tax minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204154913	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the commitment of the Social Democratic Party that we are going to have a meeting where we are going to discuss some of the things that are the consequence of the postponement, and then we will also have to look at this part. I have actually asked my officials to prepare a political discussion on what should be the direction of a real decision-making basis so that we can look into each other's eyes, because everyone in the conciliation circle must agree whether we want to do this. After all, there is little point in doing a great deal of work if everyone rejects it in advance. That is why I also appreciated the undertaking. Such an expression from the parties will probably come relatively quickly so that a basis for decision can be made, and during the spring the formal decision can be made in relation to the desire of Agriculture & Food for periodic assessments. In relation to the delays, I cannot issue any guarantee here, but I can say something about it, it is the expectation to reach in the Treasury. We have decided in the past that we will make rolling assessments, which means that we should not all come at the same time, but that we should start quietly. But I must also acknowledge that when there are such IT projects as these, there should be no square guarantees. I can just say I don't want to commission it until it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155026	Thank you. Then I have some doubts as to whether Julius Graakjær Grantzau has asked to speak because Roger Courage Matthisen's seat has been pushed in. Now I think it should be okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155040	Thank you. It is true that I have asked for the floor from a wrong place. However, what I want to say is perhaps more a comment, in that it is a comment to the rapporteur of the Left who says that it is not the citizens' money that we are financing this, so that it will not be more expensive for citizens, they will not be paying any more in tax. But I think that if entire projects are delayed and more expensive, it is surely the citizens who will pay it in the end. Can the tax minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155112	In other words, the extra development costs that may be involved are the citizens who have to pay. But I believe that, Mr President, the rapporteur of the Left. Torsten Schack Pedersen thought that this means that in the long term we will also have less income in the real estate sector, because the repayment will be made later, which means that we will have to repay more and therefore more in interest rates, and that the more that the homeowners whose housing has increased in value will quite reasonably have to pay under the new property valuation system will be slightly smaller. And that's an unintended consequence of this delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155154	Then we say thank you to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155209	The debate is open. Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155226	Let me begin by stating that the government is committed to taking care of nature and the marine environment, and this also applies in Lillebælt. Let me also make it clear that the government considers that trawling and mussel scraping in certain situations can be harmful to the marine environment. It can, for example, be done. be associated with fishing by rock reefs. That is also why, in Lillebælt, there is already a ban on fishing by rock reefs with bottom towed gear and a ban on bottom towing fishing in certain coastal areas of Lillebælt, which are spawning and spawning areas for fish. However, the Government does not believe that it would be appropriate to impose a general ban on all trawling and mussel scrapings in Natural Park Lillebælt, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. That is why we cannot support the proposal either. This is partly due to the fact that the government does not consider that the premise in the proposal is correct, namely that a ban on trawling and mussel scraping in the area will automatically lead to more fish. It is too simple an interpretation of how nature works. On the other hand, there is a need to strike a balance between protection and use, so as to protect where it makes sense and, for example, where it makes sense. as we do, protect reefs and spawning and growing areas as well as areas with eel grass, while at the same time allowing fishing to continue in other areas. Naturpark Lillebælt is a collaboration between Fredericia, Kolding and Middelfart Municipalities. In addition to the three municipalities, a number of other players participate in the cooperation, such as the Danish Fisheries Association, the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the Danish Ornithological Association, the Danish Federation of Hungers and the Danish Sports Fishermen Association. And the nature park is based on a wide range of voluntary projects. For example, the Belts' Fisheries Association has. concluded an agreement with the nature park to establish areas in Lillebælt, where no bottom towed gear is fished. I support such initiatives. As has already been mentioned, there are already a number of existing protection measures in the area of Lillebælt. Firstly, fisheries regulations have been introduced to protect a number of reefs in the Natura 2000 area of Lillebælt. Therefore, no trawling or scraping of mussels may be carried out in these areas where reefs are carried out. Secondly, there is an ongoing review of the trawl regulation, which has an impact on the regulation of fishing activities in Lillebælt. The Trawl Order regulates, among other things, where the trawl coast can be fished close to the Danish waters. Among other things, the audit work has been carried out. the need to protect more coastal areas, and that is the point. The discussions on the trawl regulation have not yet been concluded, but it is my expectation that the result will be that a larger area in Lillebælt than today will be closed to fishing with bottom towed gear and to pelagic trawls. The purpose of the closures is to protect the local spawning and upbringing areas. Scallop fishing is also taking place in the area of mussel crabs, today only outside the Natura 2000 area. Thirdly, mussel policy provides the management framework for fishing for mussels and oysters in Denmark. In Natura 2000 areas, licences for fishing for mussels are issued on an annual basis and a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is carried out on the applied fishery before licences for mussel fishing can be issued. So there are a number of requirements for fishing with the aim of protecting marine nature, while at the same time continuing fishing. Musling fisheries, for example, must: do not affect the spread of eelgrass or mapped stone reefs, and there are requirements as to the maximum impact of an area of fishing activity. The Natura 2000 area of Lillebælt has not been open to mussel fishing since February 2016, but, as mentioned above, mussel fishing is carried out elsewhere in Naturpark Lillebælt. A complete ban on trawling and mussel scraping will mean that local vessels, which are all smaller vessels, will find it harder to survive and thus keep up with local ports, which is a priority for the government. The fishermen are inshore fishermen, who are among them fishermen. feeds on having access to fishing grounds in Lillebælt. So the resolution is not in line with the government's policy in this area, nor indeed with the opposition's policy on the development of Danish fishing, which focuses particularly on smaller vessels and the allocation of quotas via the coastal fishing system to this particular group. The smaller trawlers are particularly fishing in the Belt Sea, and with the proposal they will lose potential fishing grounds. Finally, let me say that a ban on trawling and mussel scraping will lead to an immediate economic loss for the industry of approx. 1 million kr. a year based on what has been fishing on average in the area since 2012 with these gears. So, as I said, the government cannot support the resolution. We want to ban trawling and mussel scraping where it makes sense, particularly for example. to protect rock reefs or protect spawning and upbringing areas. A general ban in Natural Park Lillebælt does not seem appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155819	There is a brief comment. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155823	I think that there is much to learn from what is happening in the Øresund and that a long-standing trawl ban has achieved a condition where there are far more fish than normal in inland Danish waters. Our resolution here is inspired by it, and that is how we have come to see more waters where there is a better stock of fish. It is a bit strange to hear the Minister say that there will be a plan to increase areas where there is a trawl ban, but you will not quite do it in the way of the Enhedslisten, which you think is too far-reaching. It will be a little interesting to see how much difference there really is at the two levels when we get there. The minister says it could make a loss of 1 million. kr. Is it possible that these fish could be caught in a different way by other fishermen during the year, but is it included in the calculation? This is not a fishing ban, it is a ban on having bottom trawls in Lillebælt in a particular geographical area. Is the Minister sure that there are 1 million? kr. In loss?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204155933	I mentioned to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that we can estimate that it will immediately lead to an economic loss for the profession of approx. 1 million kr. a year based on what has been fishing on average in the area since 2012 with these gears. So it is fishing in the area with these tools that makes it possible for us to reach that amount. Well, I simply disagree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that this will have the meaning as stated in the motion for a resolution, because it is not that simple. It is, after all, a question of what happens to changes in behaviour in other areas, and I think that we are getting much more out of targeted action, namely protecting where protection is needed, and that is also what I am expressing in relation to the additional areas that will be taken in. And then I find it interesting that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen completely ignores the fact that this actually affects coastal fishermen in the area, as I have heard Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen expressed his desire to promote opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160040	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160042	We support the development of coastal fishing, using gentle fishing gear, without any doubt. I have a case here where the minister has been in and forbidding clam scrapes on the Bay of Helnæs, and this is an area a little south of this. I am surprised that there was a conclusion that there was a ban. Why, then, should it be so dangerous that a slightly larger geographical area is taken here and, like this, we take care of nature's interests and prevent this rock scraping in a larger area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160116	Thank you for mentioning the ban in the Bay of Helnæs, because this is precisely the expression of the fact that we who have been targeted towards protecting an area where there is a reef, which makes it make sense here to impose a ban in order to be able to promote nature's progress in that area. And it has also been said locally that it would be desirable to do so in the Bay of Helnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160138	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160140	Thank you. After all, the Minister is also told in his speech that it is in fact a burden on the marine environment and that there is therefore a need to protect some places, stone reefs, etc. So it is, of course, a recognition that trawling is actually a burden on the seabed and on the marine environment. Then this one with the targeted approach may surprise me a little. I understand that, but why do we not turn it around and say that, knowing that it is a burden on the marine environment, we could say that there should be a general trawl ban, and then permits should be granted if we want to be allowed to trawl exactly as we do when we grant permits for recovery of raw materials? Wasn't that a more logical way, knowing that this is a burden on the marine environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160232	I think it is appropriate to say that where is something we need to protect; it may be stone reefs, it may be spawning areas and growing areas, and in those areas we will then close off the possibility of fishing. I think that is the right approach, that is to say we go in and protect where it is needed. And as I mentioned, it is of course assessed in terms of what the areas can tolerate. When, for example, are granted licences in Natura 2000 areas for the fishing of mussels, then a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is carried out of the applied fisheries. I think this is a good way to do it, while at the same time allowing smaller vessels to actually fish in the areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160321	Mrs Trine Torp would like to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160325	I'm just trying to ask you again. Since other types of pollution of the marine environment, such as mining, are something that requires authorisation, why do we not do the same in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160341	But I think it is to turn things upside down that we should then ask for permits for any kind of fishing in a particular area. I think it is more effective to go in and say clearly where protection of the area should be ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160356	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160359	Thank you. It is very funny about this debate that we are having right now, because it shows a little the difference between the two sides of the House that I have actually experienced over the years I have been here. The Minister expresses this utility approach to nature as a starting point and then wants to identify very few areas for protection where my approach would be the opposite, in other words where it says that we have respect for nature, and it should generally unfold freely and have the dynamics necessary and natural for high biodiversity, and then we can give special permits around. A few years ago, Denmark's Conservation Association actually proposed Lillebælt as one of the areas that could be designated as a marine national park. And there they say that there must be no scraping and there must be no extraction of raw materials. That's the two big things. So does the Minister agree with that interpretation of the opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160502	I think that there are a number of parties that are challenged by what they actually have in terms of a policy on smaller fisheries. Well, sir. After all, Christian Poll also represents a party that wants to promote the opportunities of coastal fishermen. Here we are talking about the fact that there are six vessels at present. fishing in the area, which is therefore not to be allowed to fish in the area. What's sir? Christian Poll's response to the people on the six smaller vessels? What are they going to do if we could follow the motion for a resolution's idea of shutting down this fishery?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160538	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160539	What is interesting is to look at what is straining nature. It is typical of the dredged fishing methods, and it is extraction of raw materials. So my answer to that would be that gentle fishing is without scraping methods. In other words, we can use the other fishing methods which can easily work in interaction with nature. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160605	So, I think that we can provide both opportunities for fishing in the area and at the same time protect nature, and that is exactly what we are doing by going in and banning fishing in some areas, for example. to protect reefs, reefs or whatever may be in the area, or to protect spawning grounds. That is what I have just said in my reply, that is to say that we will do it to a greater extent than we are doing today, among other things. as a result of the fact that we are reviewing the trawl regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160635	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are going to start the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160646	Thank you, sir. President. The proposal we are debating is that the Enhedslisten wants to introduce a trawl ban and a ban on mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt. For social democracy, it is crucial that we find a balance that takes account of both business, small ports and society, as well as the environment and nature. We have shown this with the agreement on the fisheries package that was concluded in 2016 when we gave a backlash to inshore fishing, while at the same time strengthening the framework conditions for Danish fishing. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wants to ban trawling and mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt. We probably all agree that we must, of course, take good care of our nature and our environment. In this particular case, the fact is that nature is already being taken care of. Firstly, in the part of Lillebælt, which is called Natural Park Lillebælt, there is already a ban on trawl fishing and mussel scraping in parts of the area. A number of voluntary agreements have been concluded between the Belts' Fisheries Association and the Natural Park. In addition, part of the area is also a Natura 2000 area where no bottom-scraping gear is allowed. In fact, it is only a small corridor in Lillebælt where bottom trawling is allowed. Secondly, there will be even more areas in the future trawl regulations and clam regulations where no mussels may be scraped and trawled. This is an important consideration, as we can specifically protect spawning and spawning areas for fish. Thirdly, it is an important fishing ground for local fishermen in whom the Enhedslisten wants to ban trawling and mussel scraping. It is, moreover, small-scale fishermen, so it is not because the so-called quota kings will be affected by a ban here. Fourthly, Nature Park Lillebælt is an important breeding area for many birds of prey such as the sea eagle, and at the same time Nature Park Lillebælt has the world's densest population of guinea pigs. The Enhedslisten wants to fish with static gear as a net. One of the drawbacks of fishing with nets is that marine mammals and birds go into the net, and that is unfortunate when the area is important for both guinea pigs and birds. In the light of the above, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution because, in our opinion, it is an intervention that is out of proportion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204160908	Thank you. Well, I don't think the trawl ban will interfere with the eagle. I certainly hope that there will not be any consequences for the sea eagle in our resolution. The rapporteur mentioned that it is only a small corridor in Lillebælt that this could concern. If that is all it is, would it go so far as to accept the proposal we have? In other words, the experience gained with the Øresund, where, for 80 years, we have come to have much richer fish stocks, is something we should learn from. If we implement this trawl ban, there is a possibility that we have a larger area which is less disturbed and where we give priority to some of the habitats that are below sea level. I think it has been interesting in recent years to see that some habitat types on land have been given more attention, among other things. untouched forest. But we do not have the same attention on sub-sea habitats, and that is what we do, among other things. may ensure by promoting a fishing operation which does not climb into the seabed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161018	Thank you. I do not think it is possible to rule out the risk that both guinea pigs and eagles may enter them with static gear. Whether they die of it is another aspect of the matter, but the risk is explained. As to how much or how little this means, I would say that there is a difference between making a general ban and what we are talking about here, where you go out where there is something that needs to be protected and making voluntary agreements. It could be rock reefs, it could be spawning grounds and something else. So that is the angle we have taken on in the Social Democrat Party: instead of making a general ban, we are looking at what it is that needs to be protected. And we have also worked hard over time to find ways to ensure that the tools used are less straining on the seabed than those we have seen in the past. So there are several different strings we can play on here, precisely to ensure that nature and the environment go hand in hand with the interests of small fishermen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161117	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161119	Well, I think the rapporteur was very well-informed about the situation, just as well-informed as the Minister was, so I do not really know whether there has been some coordination in relation to where it is that the Social Democratic Party is in this matter. But I would very much like us to move it a little and to clarify, through a committee procedure, the extent to which it is concerned. After all, we have had some new figures today about how few fishermen it is and that it may have an economic impact on a million people. So I am very much looking forward to the social democracy being a little more open in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161155	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161156	Thank you. I can say that in the Social Democratic Party we are always fresh at an open dialogue, including in the committee, where we are looking at all these things, and Enhedslisten should be welcome to carry all these different things forward. I can tell the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that I have not exchanged words with the Minister on this matter. These are some views we have about Limfjorden or whether it is about Lillebælt or elsewhere. There we have a practical approach to it, and if one can argue that closing a particular area helps something in relation to the big picture, then of course we are always sensitive to it. But we would rather not see general bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161234	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161247	Thank you for that and thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate. It is, of course, a very sympathetic proposal, and it is in fact very much in line with the fact that we have got the Natural Park Lillebælt down there. The government's own ice fishing center in Assens is just around the corner. And, as mentioned in the motion for a resolution, after 80 years of ban, the Øresund is the only place in the Baltic Sea area where cod is well. It speaks a lot for this proposal, but we do not know whether it is the fact that there has been no trawl in Øresund for 80 years that makes cod feel good here. That is something that needs to be clarified. It can then be said that when it comes into force, namely on 1 January, that is to say shortly, is at very short notice, and we would not want to get into something with legislation with retroactive effect. After all, some might encounter the cuffs, even though this often happens in a parliamentary context. We also need a little, I think, in the proposal to clarify the scope of the activities that are taking place, how powerful they are and how often it is, and these things. So I think Enhedslisten might want to spend the Christmas break just cleaning off the proposal and then come back with it after New Year. Then we will certainly look at it positively from our point of view. However, as it stands here, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161437	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161441	Thanks for receiving me. I would like to hold the solstice without having to make a new resolution, but it is of course relevant enough that the rapporteur says that entry into force on 1 January is a little close. That is what is correct, so a little later on we would like to take part in the debate in committee. So I am glad that the rapporteur can see that what has been done in the Øresund has had an effect on fish stocks, and I really think that one should be open to saying: Well, is there elsewhere in the inland waters of Denmark where significant environmental benefits could be achieved by the recovery of fish stocks into a higher rent? I think it is nice to hear that the rapporteur has the approach, also that this is something that can play along with Nature Park Lillebælt. I can easily see that we could come up with something that could come into force a little later, also on the basis of the information that the Minister has on current activities. So I look forward to taking a vacation and discussing things afterwards in committee with Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161550	Well, I say thank you, and I take it as a comment and not a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161555	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Ib Poulsen, and then it's Mr. Poulsen. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161608	Thank you. The small belt area and also the Natural Park Lillebælt is a fantastic area, both nature in its entirety and Lillebælt and also the waters and the aquatic environment around there. We must, of course, be very careful about that. I think we all agree on that. I also see that everyone, we can say, is pulling the same hammer in order to take good care of it. I also note, as the Minister has already said, that a number of voluntary organizations and associations, and also fishermen themselves, have taken a positive part in this work in order to protect the environment and find the balance in fishing for this relatively small number of vessels that can then continue. The trawl regulation, which is currently being examined, also refers to the possibility of drawing and adjusting the lines as to where fishing should then be prohibited. I think it's a good way to get this balanced off so that we can both take care of nature and the environment and Lillebælt and at the same time continue to ensure that this relatively small number of vessels can continue. So on that basis the Left will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161723	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204161732	Thank you. I will not leave the House waiting in suspense, but start by revealing that the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution. However, thank you to Enhedslisten for putting it forward. There can be no doubt that fishing, together with agriculture, is the occupation in Denmark which is most restricted. That is why the Liberal Alliance also believes that it would be far too far-reaching to ban completely trawl and mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt. The area of Lillebælt is already subject to strict environmental protection rules, and there are several places where fishing with trawls and fishing for mussels is already prohibited. And it is because these areas have a greater natural value than the rest of Lillebælt. But perhaps we could say, or rather say, and that is why I think it would be too much to impose on the fishing industry if these forms of fishing were to be banned altogether, since not all areas of Lillebælt need the same protection. Then I could understand both the Minister's speech and Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's statement that there are, in fact, some voluntary agreements on Nature Park Lillebælt that are on the way or that may already be in place, where a larger area will be freed from these fishing methods. I understand from the Minister that there is a new decree on the way in which several areas will also be exempted from the fishing methods in question. In view of the contradiction which has also been mentioned by a few other rapporteurs before me here in the Chair, it can be said that it is certainly only the locally-found fishermen who fish in Lillebælt, that is. fishermen coming from local ports in Lillebælt, which is why such a ban will of course also affect local fishermen and small fishing ports in and around Lillebælt most, which would be inappropriate, at least in the opinion of my and Liberal Alliance. A ban in Lillebælt will, of course, cause a higher pressure on other fishing grounds elsewhere in the Danish inland waters, which can then be a problem. Overall, as I started by saying, this means that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162052	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162105	Thank you. In Denmark, we have had a useful approach to nature for many, many years. We use it in agriculture, we use it in fisheries, we use it in very many contexts, a basic approach that is about if there are any resources, they must be used financially for our benefit. We believe that it is time to put an end to this approach to nature. We believe that the Danish nature is a fragile size which needs much more protection than what we are giving it today. That is why I would like to thank Enhedslisten for making this proposal. We are fully in line with this proposal, in the sense that two years ago, in our nature package, we proposed that we start to provide nature with large, coherent areas in the marine areas, as well as with nature conservation on land. One of the areas we proposed to start with, in addition to the Øresund, was also Lillebælt, and the appointment of Lillebælt as a marine national park will, of course, include stopping scraping fishing methods and mining of raw materials, and what else may be of processes that we know affect nature then support from here on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162231	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162244	Thank you. The Radical Left is also very positive about the proposal, so thank you to the Enhedslisten for bringing it forward. I think Lillebælt is something special. The closest we have to Lillebælt must of course be the Øresund. Lillebælt is similar to Øresund when it comes to power and other things. There are interesting differences in depth, and this is simply an interesting area in relation to other inland waters. We have heard today from the Minister that by a ban we are looking at a loss for fishermen around Lillebælt of about 1 million. kr. At the same time, we have heard that there is a trawl regulation on the way which will further restrict fishing, I assume, from this million kroner which is the starting point. In other words, the sums currently at stake for local fishermen must be said to be quite small. I have no doubt that Øresund's fish stocks and diversity are favoured by a very long-term trawl ban there. There are many kinds of fish, and there are many big fish. It is a rich area which in any case gives up more than Lillebælt, which in turn is quite poor in fish. We are prepared to support this. We are prepared to maintain that the entire Natural Park Lillebælt will be trawl-free zone in the future as well. We would, of course, also like to look at phase-in times and possible compensation in the form of other areas or in the form of money, but above all with the small sums at stake and the natural benefits that are out there that can be protected, we would very much like to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162413	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162416	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Actually, it was just a comment on the small sums. After all, it is not because we are going to have to validate the figures that have been presented, even though they have been presented by the Minister. It is an amount and a relatively small number of fishermen. Will Mr. Perhaps Rasmus Helveg Petersen does not admit that this amount can actually be significant for the local fishermen concerned and for the existence of their profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162457	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Well, for the individual fisherman, this is something quite different than when we are juggling with abstract sums. But, as I have said, the sum of 1 million will have to be paid. DKr, mentioned by the Minister, draws the expected limit that comes through a future trawl notice. So with the decisions that have been taken or have to be taken, we are already under one million in total. kr. I think it should be weighed up against a unique natural glory and a potential gain, which is very great, by a long-term ban. So when you weigh the two things against each other, i.e. the economic considerations and the potential values that can be reaped by introducing this ban, I have no doubt about where my priorities lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162541	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162542	No, and this is an honest matter, and it is a good thing that the priorities of the Radical Left should be put forward in this way. I have been told I shall not be able to say whether it is quite right that the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing in Denmark does not actually support the resolution in question either. Perhaps one could reverse the problem and say that when it is relatively limited, that is to say a small number of fishermen and fishing to a relatively limited extent with a relatively limited landing value... I am now deliberately using the wording used by the rapporteur of the Radical Left himself... then perhaps the balance has been found between use and protection, which in fact also has value in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162631	Thank you. Based on what is happening in Øresund, versus what is happening in Lillebælt, today I saw figures from the World Wildlife Fund that estimated that there are about 40 times as many cod in Øresund as there are in Lillebælt I think it was 37 times as many. This means that the potential values of conservation are far, far greater in a protected area than in this area that is routinely trawled through. So, personally, I have no doubt at all that in the long term there will be gains to be gained by restricting fishing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162708	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162710	I also want to get involved in the discussion, because everything is relative. That is why I would like to ask a relatively small party like the Radical Left about something that I hope is not too condescending, it was not meant that way. However, it is because the rapporteur mentions that very few fishermen are involved here and that it is not very much money for social housing. Is it the case, then, that the Radical Left envisages moving out with compensation? Because I believe that the fishermen concerned, whether it be little or much, will feel that this is something you take away from them. If this proposal becomes a reality, does the rapporteur think that fishermen should be compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162747	Thank you. After all, we have compensated fishermen in the past when we have involved fishing areas. I know that in setting up offshore wind farms, compensation is paid routinely for lost fishing opportunities in that area. I do not know how to do this by means of a new trawl regulation, because I have the expectation that, as the Minister says, the trawl regulation will already restrict the areas that can be fished in. Will compensation be paid in these cases? Actually, I don't know. But yes, I am open to discussing any compensation, either in the form of money or in the form of other opportunities to fish, in the course of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162820	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162821	Thank you. It is just because we know that it is incredibly difficult to compensate fishermen. We know from the case of seals that they eat or massacre the fish that have gone into the net and that it is incredibly difficult to find a model for compensating fishermen. I think it'll be here, too. But let's give each other a hand at looking at it. Now it doesn't look like this proposal is going to happen, but I understand the few fishermen who make a living from this. If you tell them that now you can't fish anymore, they're out thinking about what they're gonna make a living instead. How does the rapporteur envisage finding something else to live on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162901	Thank you. It would be a pleasure if we could shake hands with each other that we introduced these restrictions in the fisheries sector and then discussed compensation or, in parallel with that, discussed compensation. Now I understand that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen won't help restrict fishing in Lillebælt after this model. I'm not going to lay down a compensation model. I do not think that is politics. On the other hand, I think nature conservation is that. As I said to Mr. Carsten Bach before, I think that there is a very far-reaching consideration that we should take to these unique glories that are in Lillebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162930	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204162939	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for presenting the motion for a resolution on a ban on trawling and mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt. For 80 years there has been a trawl ban in Øresund, as has already been mentioned. This has helped to safeguard the biodiversity of Øresund and to preserve healthy fish stocks. Globally, the Øresund is highlighted as a shining example where we have a richer animal and plant life than in other waters. The Øresund is known to be a living, recreational area with tourism, outdoor life and commercial fishing. The Øresund and Lillebælt resemble each other in many ways. Like the Øresund, Lillebælt has great differences in depths and strong ocean currents. Lillebælt has a living portrait with high biodiversity in the meeting between the Salt Kattegat and the Bracket Baltic Sea. It has both rare flora and one of Denmark's most important breeding and resting areas for birds attached to the coast. Lillebælt is also like Øresund surrounded by smaller fishing ports and has a high recreational value for the local population. As a starting point, we in the SF believe that a general trawl ban should be imposed in all Danish inland waters. If demersal trawling is to be carried out, it should be subject to specific authorisation and in a specific area as in the case of authorisation for raw materials. Trawl must be planned and not permitted as a starting point. That is why, of course, we support the proposal for a trawl ban and a ban on mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt. This will in the long term strengthen both the nature of the seabed, biodiversity and the opportunities for gentle fishing in Lillebælt. In this way, we can eventually achieve the same results in Lillebælt as in Øresund. But it's gonna take time. A strengthened fish stock in Lillebælt will make it easier for gentle coastal fishing to establish itself, which will both create new jobs and support local communities. And this could help to put an end to the continued dismantling of local ports and support the Danish rural areas. In addition, a trawl ban and a ban on mussel fishing with scraping gear will support the already available work on Nature Park Lillebælt, which can become Denmark's largest natural park. The purpose of the nature park is precisely to strengthen and safeguard the magnificent nature of the area and to help even more Danes enjoy nature. In SF, we value the nature and biodiversity of the seabed as much as that of the land, and we fight for Denmark to have a much more gentle and sustainable fishing. That is why, of course, we support the proposal and we hope that in the long term there will be a trawl ban in all Danish inland waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163231	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163241	Thank you. There are several areas in the nature park where trawling or scraping for mussels is already not permitted. Here we have already sought the balance between protection and use and the introduction of fisheries regulation, among other things. for the protection of stone reefs and eelgrass. A number of voluntary agreements have also been concluded between the nature park and, for example, the park. The Belts' Fisheries Association. One of the agreements includes: whether there is a basis for closing a larger part of Lillebælt for fishing with bottom towed gear. It is very good if you can negotiate such an agreement locally on knowledge of local conditions. At present we are discussing with the fishing industry the amendment to the trawl regulation and the clam regulation, where there will be even more areas where fishing with bottom trawls and pelagic trawls is not permitted. Closes happen, among other things. to protect local spawning and upbringing areas. These are important fishing grounds for local vessels, all of which are smaller vessels which help to keep local ports alive and which therefore need to be able to fish in local fishing grounds. These are fishing grounds for local vessels, which we could hear from the Minister was six. That's all. Fishing takes place where the fishermen are. If we close a good fishing site, fishermen will move to other areas where efforts to catch the same amount of fish will be relatively greater. Musling fisheries move between areas, depending on where mussels or rather higher quality are found. Fishing is a form of rationing, which takes place in several different areas from the Gulf of Aarhus to the north of Flensburg Fjord in the south. Nature Park Lillebælt is Denmark's largest natural park with 370 km2, of which 70%. is sea. Volunteering is the key word in nature park work, and any action on private land will be based solely on voluntary agreement. The Trawl Order has not been amended since 1993. A revision of the trawl regulation is under way under the regulatory simplification project. In the context of the review, a number of local statutes will be combined with the trawl regulation. The local statutes are regulations which in practice correspond to a decree for a defined area. By bringing together these trawl regulations, a clearer set of rules can be established. The fishermen also need this. The fishing industry has been active in this process and no ban has been proposed in the context of the discussions on bottom trawling and mussel scraping in Lillebælt. In the course of the discussions, however, agreement has been reached on the closure of a substantial part of the pelagic fishing park and a further small part of the natural park for bottom trawls in order to achieve greater protection than is currently the case. The closure shall include, inter alia: protect local spawning and upbringing areas. Natural Park Lillebælt contains a Natura 2000 site. In Natura 2000 areas it is not permitted to fish with bottom towed gear at mapped rock reefs to protect them. In addition, as a result of the provisions of the trawl regulation, there are a number of coastal areas in which, in order to protect local spawning and growing-up areas, no bottom trawls may be fished. Natura 2000 sites have not been open to mussel fishing in recent years and will not be open to mussel fishing in 2019. In order for fishing to be authorised in Natura 2000 sites, a so-called environmental impact assessment needs to be carried out, which is intended precisely to ensure that fishing does not affect the marine environment to such an extent that the marine environment is harmed. Muslinge policy provides a framework for the impact that can be allowed in Natura 2000 sites. The fisheries package, which was concluded outside the government in 2016, attaches crucial importance to creating good conditions for inshore fishing. This proposal does the opposite. This will limit fishing grounds for local, smaller vessels, which are often trawl vessels. This will make it difficult to keep the local ports alive and use all the remaining vessels in order to maintain fishing as a necessity in order to preserve the following industry as an icework, forging, etc. This proposal is not linked to the political agreement reached in 2016, and it is strange to me that those who concluded the fisheries agreement cannot stick together now about inshore fishing. It is very strange to see that today you are torn around this, which has been the key in the fisheries package, especially Enhedslisten and SF and for the Danish People's Party, but is not today. The Conservative People's Party cannot support B-35.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163757	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163800	Now it is not a fishing ban that we are proposing. So if we came to the conclusion that there was a trawl ban, there is an opportunity to fish with other gears. I was able to hear that the rapporteur attached great importance to the fact that there had been these local negotiations and that certain agreements had been reached voluntarily. It is, of course, very good if you can be in such negotiations, and apparently the representatives of the fishing industry have been. But if you want to protect the interests of nature, how do you ensure that you can start a debate? Should it be the Danish Nature Conservation Association or the World Nature Fund, which will then come and say that they are now taking an initiative; that now there should be reductions in the types of fishing that are in a particular area? Could this be the way to get more voluntary agreements started? Or are we in the situation where fishing has a right of veto in order to reduce fishing? Can the rapporteur not see that there are some problems if we are to get on with something that promotes nature? That is the approach taken in our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204163908	I do not think that the solution is always that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should be dragged into problems. I believe that local fishermen in the Lillebælt area themselves have an interest in the future too. And I just have to point out that when we talk about Natura 2000, there is an environmental impact assessment of it, and that means that the environment is assessed, perhaps not just by the Danish Nature Conservation Association, but it may also be the same, because there are probably some others who can do it, and there is it just to say that with what we do in the fisheries sector in Lillebælt, it might be possible that all the fish die, but my question is as follows: how much do we get out of having fish in the area in the future if we do not have any fishermen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164002	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164004	It sounds as if the Minister is on the way with something that increases the trawl bans in the area, so there is obviously a reduction on the way, whether the Minister or Enhedslisten's proposals will be implemented. I think the figure is a little thought-provoking when you hear about the number of tourists who come to areas in Denmark where you have rehurted a race to fish there. That tells me a lot. I believe that some of the same potential we have along our coasts will provide some tourism opportunities if we, like, ensure that there are fish out there. I really think that we should be inspired by the Øresund and come to have more waters where there are fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164042-2	I have to say that in all the negotiations I have participated in on the fisheries package, I have not heard any of the rapporteurs from the conciliation parties on the fisheries package talk much about the need to limit coastal fishermen. That has not actually been mentioned. On the contrary, we have increased the quotas for coastal fishermen, because the parties to the conciliation have wanted to do so, and now, for some fishermen, we want them to be restricted. This is an entirely new agenda, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is coming with us. At the same time, I would like to say that once the trawl regulation is completed, we will see the protection of fishing in Lillebælt, and that is perfectly natural because it is done to ensure the future of fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164136	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164155	Thank you for the debate so far. After all, it seems to some as if everything is good if it comes from the government, and so it marks the debate a little too much, I think. I would just like to say, following on from the debate here, that we are not dealing with a fish ban proposal. After all, it is a question of modeling on what kind of fishing you want to accept. The proposal is that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the necessary administrative steps to ensure that, from 1 January 2019 onwards, a ban on trawling and a ban on mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt is introduced at least in the area laid out for Natural Park Lillebælt, in order to promote the opportunities for gentle fishing and to strengthen nature and recreational opportunities in the area. After all, a little time may pass from the submission of a motion for a resolution until it comes to the first reading in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is why it is natural to say that 1 January is unrealistic. Because, of course, we need to have a committee reading of the proposal here, so that date needs to be changed. It's necessary. We think that the environmental conditions in Lillebælt are very special. They are reminiscent of the Øresund, where there has been a trawl ban for 80 years, which has helped to preserve Øresund's high biodiversity and has helped to ensure that fish stocks in the Øresund are healthy. Among other things: is the only place in the Baltic Sea where the Baltic cod stock is healthy. In addition, the Øresund Trawl ban has uniquely contributed to ensuring a live, profitable and gentle fishing in the Sound, as fishing with both pelagic and bottom trawl normally hinders fishing opportunities with passive gear within the same area. The Øresund is known throughout Europe as a place where commercial fishing and nature co-exist in the very best way, and here the ban on trawling has played an important role. With this proposal, the proposers want to implement the same model in Lillebælt. A trawl ban in Lillebælt could thus be a gain both for the gentle fishing of passive gear, for the nature of the seabed and the habitats of fish and the fish stocks in Lillebælt in general. The Trawl ban will support a gentle fishing and nature in Nature Park Lillebælt. In 2017, the Free Air Council approved the inclusion of Nature Park Lillebælt as a natural park under the Danish Nature Parks Agency's labelling scheme. Prior to approval, the area has been a pilot project for 4 years, where the three municipalities around Lillebælt, Fredericia, Kolding and Middelfart have worked together on a number of initiatives such as: rock and diver reefs. Natural Park Lillebælt will be Denmark's largest natural park with approval. The purpose of the nature park is to strengthen and safeguard the magnificent nature of the area and to help local people and the area's guests enjoy nature around the belt. In fact, I think it is incredibly important. Normally, we have a much greater awareness of natural habitats, as you can see when you go on land, and it is an overlooked area that there is thus life below sea level. It is too much overlooked, and that is why this proposal could be something that could help to say: we have had good experience with the Sound; now we go further and take one more water area and come to develop the natural habitats and preserve the natural habitats that are there. I would like to thank you for the debate here. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the relatively positive reception of the proposal, although you cannot fully support it, and thank you to the Alternative, SF and Radicals for a more wholehearted support for the proposal. We think that with the new information that has been provided by the Minister, how many boats are involved, there is evidently data on the extent or non-enforceability of trawling in the area, and there is obviously something on the way to reducing the possibility of trawling in the Lillebælt area could be interesting to get figures on, i.e. if that reduction is implemented, how small a loss it is for the fishermen. We have been told today that this is an income of 1 million. kr. We then come down to the fact that this is an annual loss for the fishermen, and in that figure it is then included that the fishermen could retreat. There are rapporteurs, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats, who have just said that this is something that could harm local fishing. In the fisheries agreement we have made, there is an opportunity to surround its fishing fleet. So there is, in a sense, scope for aid to help coastal fishermen who want to fish in a different way. So I actually think that you are trying to talk a conflict up to something bigger than it is. Because I am also listening that there is some support for us also to safeguard the natural values that are below sea level. It's kind of broad. But there is not a majority today who believes that the geographical area we have proposed should be the geographical area where a trawl ban will be imposed. But I understand that there is something on the way that will increase those areas with a trawl ban in Lillebælt and that one can look forward to greater protection of nature interests. That process in committee seems to me to be exciting. It might be exciting to take the map that we have proposed and see where it is that the Minister thinks there should be a trawl ban, and if you put the two maps together, we can see how far we are going. It will be interesting to see if we end up with just a sailor, where you have to keep coming and trawling. I think that would be interesting. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164819	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181204164834	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 5 December 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
