ParlaMint-DK_20180425130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 223 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Bill No. L 224 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Administration. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 225 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish Training for Adult Aliens and Others) Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 226 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the recovery of public debt and various other laws and repealing the law on attempts to cancel public debt for socially disadvantaged groups. and obsolescence management, etc.) and Bill No. L 227 (Proposal for a law amending the law on depreciation and the law on equations. Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 228 (Proposal for a law on the design and construction of a wild boar fence along the Danish-German border) and Bill No. L 229 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the keeping of animals, the Food and Feed Act). Minister for Culture (Mette Bock): Bill No. L 230 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright. Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Henrik Brodersen (DF), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Magni Arge (T), Sjúrður Skaale (JF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Aleqa Hammond (UFG) and others.: Question No. F 33 (What can the Prime Minister say about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written Energy Policy statement 2018 of 25/4 18. R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 18 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130215	The first question is to the Minister for Culture and has been asked by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130227	I give the floor to the author to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130231	Thank you, sir. President. The question to the Minister is: What is the Minister's view that the Danish National Agency for Slots and Culture has demanded that any changes made at the Flakfort should be brought back, which would be a burdened administrative act for a company that has spent millions of dollars renovating the Flakfort?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130250	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130251	Thank you for the question. Let me first make it clear that this is a complicated matter and that it is also a matter in which the Danish Palace and Culture Agency have the competence to decide, but where there is a complaint to the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. And then it is also a matter where there have been a number of misunderstandings in the press. For example, one of the stories that flourishes is that Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has required the marina to be closed. That's not true. However, it is true that in its decision of 6 April, the board has demanded that the owner of the Flakfort correct a number of illegalities. It is also important to know, I think, that the owner was already pointed out in the purchase agreement that it was a protected memory he bought, in which special restrictive legislation therefore applies and that any change requires a derogation. It was expressly stated in the purchase agreement. Nevertheless, it has been found that the owner has made a number of changes without applying. Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has given legal permission for a number of these changes, including: toilet, baths, escape routes, industrial kitchen, heating and radiators. Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has also given permission to a number of facilities for the pleasure of the yachts. These include piers, bulwarks, mooring equipment and power outlets, etc. As regards the conditions that the Board has ordered to re-establish, I have been informed that some of them will probably be acceptable in an alternative form or location. This is true, for example. tables and benches and barbecue space. In each case, however, the board must assess whether there is major interference in the historical monument. The unfortunate thing in this case is that the owner has a bill to the extent that the board considers that the changes made by the owner are too intrusive in relation to the protected memory and therefore need to be adjusted or re-established. It's boring that the owner has chosen to take that risk. Like Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen (Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen), I think it is important that as many people as possible have the opportunity to visit an ancient memory such as Flakfortet, so I hope, of course, that the yachts and other visitors will be opened again. I have noted that there is a dialogue between Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen and the owner, and I hope that this will enable alternative solutions to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130513	I give the floor to the author, initially for two minutes' speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130516	Thank you. The flakfort has been used by the military until 1968. Then the place lay unguarded until 1975, when it decayed when everything of value was removed from the fort. Even the large granite stones that formed the piers were stolen by stone fishermen and used elsewhere. The old machinery spaces and other things on the island were subjected to gross vandalism, and the whole island was submerged by weather and waves. After 1975, among other things, Danish Sailing Union during periods the right of use over the Flakfort. During that period there was some maintenance, but not enough to make the island visitable for sailors and tourists. In 1995 the Flakfort was so protected. In 2001, Flakfortet was sold by the state property company Freja to the Malmokranen, on condition that the buyer restored the fort and maintained the Flakfort in order to open it up again for sailors, tourists, historical interest and guests in general. It's been done, and they've spent millions. There is no doubt that buildings worthy of conservation must be preserved and that restrictions on protected buildings must be respected. Having said that, however, it is also important to have a look at the fact that the Flakfort is a facility that can only be maintained if there are activities at the fort that can lure people out there. If there are no activities at the fort, there is no revenue base and therefore no real possibility of maintaining the fort. The State knew that activities at the fort were a prerequisite for the maintenance of the fort and that the maintainer would require it to take place in such a way that it attracted, among other things, the fort. sailors and tourists. I assume that is also why the state chose to sell Flakfort to a privately owned company such as the Malmokranen and not a museum. The flak fortress, like ancient memory, is not the same as a burial mound. On a burial mound there must be as few activities as possible so that the burial mound is not destroyed. Does the Minister not consider that it is in the general interest to ensure that there are activities on the Flakfort, so that it does not fall due as it did when the State owned the Flakfort?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130728	I fully agree with that. However, we must also make it clear that we live in a society of law in which applicable laws and rules must be observed, and I must stress once again that the purchase agreement has already made explicit reference to the fact that it was a protected memory of the existence of particularly restrictive legislation and that any change requires a derogation. Then the work has been started, and when one becomes aware of it, one has of course taken hold of the owner of the Flakfort. A number of facilities have been authorized retroactively which benefit the yachts: piers, bulwarks, mooring craft, etc. Then there are a few things that we need to get right, and I think that is fair, especially considering that the owner has actually known this in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130814	I know exactly what it's like, because I've been out there almost every week since it started, and then throughout the whole period of the 1970s and 1980s. So I know what it's like, and I know what it looked like before, and there was no option for anything but to just walk around looking at water and shit and shit and nothing. So that there are some who have laid some tiles and have made it habitable and to be there, I think is not at all wrong. So I think it should be given extra thought, and I hope that the Minister is of the same opinion as I am, so that we can find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130850	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130851	In other words, there is no disagreement that it is really nice that many people also have the opportunity to visit our ancient memories, in this case the Flakfort, and that is why I would like to stress that facilities have been created which are not the subject of this. So it is not Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen who has closed a marina. It is not a question of everything being traced back to the way it was before having this private investor who has done a great many good things. However, it is a question of having laws and regulations in this country, so you have to abide by them. There is a good dialogue about this, and I know that Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen will do its best to find a proper solution. However, we must insist that the legislation must be complied with, and I assume the questioner agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130931	The questioner for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425130933	I fully agree with that. Because if we look at what it is that attracts people, it is that it is cozy and nice that there is something to come after you feel good and that it looks nice. You can see this clearly here in the harbour of Copenhagen, where goboats and kayaks are rented out. The places where, for example, you go. If you have kayak rental, it doesn't look very pretty. There is such a little timber here and there and a little different, and that is why I think it should be borne in mind that it is not always the thing about what it looks like that attracts the people. I hope that the Minister will agree with that so that we can find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131007	The minister to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131008	As I said, there can still be a lot of activities out there, and this is something I would like to stress once again: there is no question of there being a demand that the Flakfort be traced back to, as it looked, when the questioner had his time there under state ownership. So I hope we find a friendly solution to that. However, as I said, rules and laws must therefore be observed, and then we must see if we can find a solution. Of course, if we succeed in finding a solution with which all parties are satisfied, I cannot comment at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131039	The Minister has thus closed the question and we thank the Minister for Culture and the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 which is for the Minister of Industry, and that is what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131052	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131054	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: what is the point of simplifying the business promotion system, and then it ends up with centralisation, without those who understand it being involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131111	I would like to know that too, because that is not the reality at all. The question is well enough, but it just has nothing to do with the reality that's out there. I understand the question, because I have also taken note of the debate which has been about the so-called centralisation of the municipal business service following on from the simplification committee's proposal to set up new municipal business houses. First of all, we're gonna have to keep a beard and snot. What we have discussed in public space or as some have discussed has been a proposal from a simplification committee which has made some proposals. The government has not made any proposals yet, but a simplification committee has made some proposals. The simplification committee does not propose to take the business service from the municipalities. What is being proposed is that the municipalities cooperate more on some of the most specialised offers to the companies. Some have then argued that local business offices are being closed down. I would like to make it clear that the government has no ambition whatsoever or idea of wanting to close the municipal business offices and business councils. What is being proposed is the creation of municipal business houses based on the current municipal greenhouses. This means that what is today an offer of greenhouses for a narrow group of growth companies is made available in the municipal growth and business houses for all companies. I think that what the committee has come up with is a good idea. This will mean that in future municipalities will be able to offer guidance to all companies and strengthen professional environments in the new municipal business houses. All business organisations, i.e. companies, have supported this. And this is the starting point for the task here: How do we get the best possible business service, best possible guidance to our businesses and entrepreneurs? We have not looked at the systems and structures and the actors who make a living from it. No, we've been looking at: who are we going to help? It is companies and entrepreneurs. And all their organisations have received it very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131315	Thank you for the preliminary answer. I think it's a case we haven't finished yet. What is of interest is what the Minister is in, because I can say that across the whole country the same message is heard, namely that the centralisation that the committee set up by the Minister will do by removing both the local and the regional link. It is just as if the Minister is pretending that this is not at all what the committee is dealing with this is really about reality. They are the ones who advise the companies that have to start up and the companies that have to expand, etc. Then the Minister says that nothing is being done to close local business offices. No, but if you implement what's in that paper, it's being perceived by everyone out there as if that's what's happening. Why is there this centralization in it? We had a meeting the other day with all business offices and all mayors from different parties. Everyone supported the same idea, they simply could not understand that there is a government setting up a committee that will come up with a proposal that will shift competences from those who know it to an office in Copenhagen far away. The only decentralized thing in this proposal that they have made is that you can have a national board with a secretariat in Silkeborg. But this must also apply in Frederikshavn and in Aalborg and in Rebild, so where is the local influence if you implement what is stated in the report of the simplification committee. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister intends to implement what his own committee is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131449	The question was asked about the world I find myself in... in the real world. And the real world is such that when you give business support, it is business support for businesses, for entrepreneurs, for them to be helped to grow; then it is not business support for some consultants, then it is business support for companies. So what happens and will happen afterwards is that the municipalities will have more influence. We are moving from three to two political levels in business promotion. This means that the regions no longer have to carry out business promotion, while the municipalities have a greater role to play. The municipalities and their business councils will carry out most of the business-oriented tasks they have today, and what we are looking at is whether the companies cannot get a little more out of the fact that the municipalities cooperate more on the specialized guidance and make it available to all companies. So that's the starting point. The starting point, and I think we really agree, is decentralization. A good job is being done in the local business associations, and this must of course be continued with a focus on the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131555-2	Thank you for your answer. Why does the Minister not answer my question, it is very simple? Does the Minister intend to carry out the centralisation which lies in the Committee's report on the removal of local links? That's what this is all about. We fully agree that we need support for business promotion that does not overlap, etc., and where we know all of our positions and all of that. But what has been attacked here is not just from North Jutland, but from all sorts of different places in the country is the centralisation that the committee is proposing. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister is going to implement this, whether it is an idea he supports when the government prides itself on wanting to decentralise?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131637	This is, of course, a rather strange discussion, because what we are discussing is a committee work which aims to decentralise and where conclusions have been drawn which are aimed at decentralising business promotion efforts. Then we will play out in the government later on with our initiative, and our initiative will be focused on the fact that the municipalities have an important role to play in the business promotion effort and that we have a business promotion board which is not an office in Copenhagen but which will be a department in Jutland and there will be no offices in Copenhagen and we will make sure that the business promotion effort is as close to the companies as possible because we make business promotion efforts in Denmark for the companies and not for the consultants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131723	It may be that the Minister thinks this is a strange discussion, but the odd thing is that the Minister does not understand it when all those people out there • all the business offices and all the mayors from mainly the Left and the Social Democratic Party say that this is not going to work. I also believe that there is a single conservative who thinks the same thing, namely that there is too much centralisation in this proposal. That is why I just want to know: does the Minister intend to implement to the letter the things that lie in the proposals of the Committee on Centralisation? This is what is perceived as centralisation, and you would like to see those who understand it keep the local 1:1 counselling out at the local level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131802	It is a simplification committee whose work means that more money is coming out to businesses and not to players and that a level is being removed. I have also noted that all professional organisations are interesting, because they are the ones we are doing it for • think it is a good idea and that KL is positive about this construction. Then it may be that they have misunderstood it in some local business associations and that they have gone to their mayor and have said: this means that we cannot do our business promotion efforts. But of course you can. I'd like to strike that myth right away. The starting point will be that you can, of course, make business promotion initiatives in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131845	The question is closed. We move on to Question 3, which is also addressed to the Minister for Business and Industry, and which has also been asked by Mr Beazley. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131852	I'll give it to you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131855	Thank you. We are trying again: is it really the intention that local business offices should be closed down and that small local businesses should be left to an impersonal digital business advisor and seek their happiness there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131906	The Minister with reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131907	No!
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425131913	But that's what's gonna happen. Now we've been discussing this with this influence, and everyone you've sent this out to, even excellent Leftmen, whom I appreciate very much in relation to the local commitment, says the same thing: this is centralisation and it will have the consequence that they will not actually be able to get the advice that companies are getting today and the 130 million. DKr, distributed regionally so far in North Jutland, is to be distributed nationally. Can't the Minister understand these people? Both the business community, the municipalities, the business offices, the business managers come and say so, as centralisation means that power is transferred from the local link to the national link.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132005-2	The previous question asked what reality I am in, and I think we are on two different planets. I would like to repeat what the position of the government is: the position of the government is that our focus is on companies and entrepreneurs, it is not the consultants. We want to decentralise and not centralise business promotion, and that is why we are removing one link. We do not want and have no ambition at all to close municipal business offices and business councils. These are the three points that the questioner keeps asking, and that is a little like asking me if I have stopped beating my wife. That is a difficult question to answer, because I have never beaten her, and therefore it is difficult to say: No, I have not stopped hitting her. The preamble to the question is that we want to centralise and close some local business offices, and I can now repeat for the fourth time that we do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132101	I am not talking about violence, as the Minister has said, I am talking about local business and democracy and influence. These are the requests that we, as members of parliament, have, and so I think that the Minister should get out in reality and listen to all the different companies who are well satisfied with the advice given at the local business office. The growth house in North Jutland has also produced very good results. So I am curious to know what the Minister will reply to all the enquiries that come from the municipalities from the Business Councils. What is he going to answer? That there is no centralisation and that it can just continue as before? I simply do not understand where the Minister has taken inspiration from for this. Is it Banedanmark and DSB that are so great when it's all nationalised and run by the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132146	I have much respect for the questioner and the questioner's commitment, but if you ask a question from planet Mars to someone who is on planet Earth, then it is a little difficult to talk about what is going on on planet Mars when what we are making legislation about is on Earth. And the starting point for the government is three things: we are doing this in the interests of the companies, it is not in the interests of the consultants; we want to decentralise, not centralize; and of course the municipalities must still be allowed away to have their local business offices and business councils. Then all sorts of other things can be discussed, but that is the starting point, and that is what the government is aiming for and on which I am sure we will reach a very, very sensible agreement, so that we distribute the business promotion funds for the benefit of businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132233	Very close to earth, I can see that it is now Mr. Bjarne Laustsen with the end of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132239	That's good. I was a little interested in the process, namely when the Minister envisages a final decision on this, and then, of course, whether the Minister can confirm that he has probably already received dozens of enquiries based on the same theme as the honourable Member asks the Minister here, namely that there is a centralisation in this, which the companies that the Minister has so much care about, have not asked for. People at the companies I have been at say that they are well pleased with the system we have and they all want to maintain local and regional influence. Why, then, is it that the Minister thinks it is good for companies that it should be nationalised?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132327	That is then the first one I hear about is well satisfied with the system. A McKinsey report was produced, which, moreover, was based on the previous government, which showed that there is a overlap of activities, that there is a waste of resources, in terms of doing the same things, and that there are the same clusters around. So the starting point for the work of the simplification committee was a report which showed that the money was used incorrectly and in the same way. I think everyone agrees with this without exception without exception. That is why the KL has also received this in a positive way, and that is why all the interested parties have also received it in a positive way. I also hope that I am quite sure that we will come up with a broad agreement based on companies and entrepreneurs, which is decentralized and which means that the municipalities can, of course, continue to make business promotion efforts. I'm absolutely sure of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132417	The question is closed and we thank the Minister and the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4 which is for the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and that is what Mr. Carsten Kudsk from the Danish People's Party. I shall begin by giving the author the opportunity to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132435	Thank you, Minister. I just read out the question: What is the Minister's opinion on the conclusion of the report of the Statens Bygningsforskningsinstituten • The difference between measured and calculated energy consumption for the heating of parcel houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132449	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Sir. Carsten Kudsk asks my opinion about the conclusion of a report by the Danish Building Research Institute in 2016. The report basically says that there can be a large difference between the calculated consumption of buildings and their actual consumption. Actual energy consumption depends very much on whether there is a single person living in the building, whether there is a parent couple with three teenagers, whether they have 20 or 22 degrees in the living room, etc. It is therefore not surprising, which is also highlighted in the report's conclusion, where it says: "It is not surprising that there is no correlation between theoretical and actual consumption. However, it is important that the label can be compared across buildings. Therefore, the energy needs of buildings are calculated on the basis of standard assumptions. This means that all energy labels for parcel houses are calculated on the basis of the same assumption of who lives in the house, how many they are and what energy behaviour they have. It is therefore not surprising that there is a difference between the calculated and actual consumption of buildings. The report's conclusion also points out that it is not enough to focus on the physical properties of buildings in order to promote energy savings; we must also continue the work of influencing behaviour inside buildings. I agree with the conclusion. It is a prerequisite for energy-efficient buildings that they are dense and well insulated, but we also need to focus on the behaviour of the buildings through targeted information. Finally, I can say that there is currently a review of the label. In this context, the prerequisites for calculated consumption and communication of actual energy consumption are also a focus point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132638	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, initially for a 2-minute note.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132641	I have talked to a lot of green experts who have said that we have had a problem similar to that of cars, where people have bought a car, for example. It should be possible to drive 30 km on the litre, but where they have the feeling that real consumption does not correspond. And here we are in a similar situation, where, for example, the citizens. energy-renovates their houses and gets a feeling that they get a saving that really doesn't hold water. What has been done for many, many years is simply to tighten up the building regulations quietly. And in this respect, this report comes up with the idea of saying that it has been all right to tighten it up, but now you have to look at how you can do this in a different way. Because citizens find that their feeling is that their expectations are not being met. They may have gotten some energy advisor out who says: If you borrow some money • it can e.g. be from 100,000 to 200,000 kroner. You never say to the citizen: Now you will hear; you will expect it to happen, that this energy saving will not hold water. Well, that's what makes it so that when the public goes to the bank and borrows money, they get a shock when it suddenly turns out that this energy saving really isn't coming. And that also shows that this is something you have to look at in relation to people's expectations. This is funny, because when the building regulations are tightened up and people's property is placed in a better class, they also start to turn up in proportion to their expenses. So if you're going to make the real CO2 but it's funny enough with people's behavior, because many times it's the better the energy refurbished their house is, the angry ones become their behavior in relation to the energy saving that they really don't get. So that is also why we are about to look at it in a completely new way. So what the Minister is about to look at is how we can start looking at it in a new way so that citizens do not get an expectation that is not being fulfilled. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132843	Thank you for the question. There are many good points in what the questioner says, Mr President. Carsten Kudsk, here expresses. I am very, very aware that it is probably necessary to do something more to communicate about this, i.e. whether there is a difference between what it calculated and what it actually is. On the other hand, of course, it is also important that we can use the label to compare. In other words, if you are in a buying situation and have to compare house A and house B, it is also important that there are some similar factors. If in one house there has been a folk pensioner who may have had a very, very low energy consumption, and in the other a family with three children, then it is clear that they have had a higher energy consumption. And it could be the same type of accommodation. That is why it must be possible to compare. But I admit that there is a challenge to the communication about this, in terms of how we organize it at all. And that is also one of the things we are going to look at during the review of the label that we have set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425132938	The citizens have this feeling, as the Minister also points out. And it's funny that when this energy advisor is out, he doesn't point out what the facts are. The sense for the citizens is the same as when you buy a car and get this feeling that it doesn't run the number of kilometres on the liter you expected. So it's gonna take some enlightenment. And, as I interpret what the Minister is saying, we are going to start with some information campaigns or try to do something to explain to the public what this really means. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133006	It is, in fact, a long way along the way correctly understood. I mean, it's all about getting the best knowledge possible. And that knowledge must, of course, be used partly for the purchase and partly for the organization of the economy. But it is also important in relation to what investments it would be sensible to make. And Mr. Carsten Kudsk also mentioned in his opening question. That's why it's absolutely crucial that you can trust this label and that it's operational. I think that is also very important. And that is also one of the things that I have put a great deal of emphasis on in the discussions I have had with the industry about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133040	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133041	That is a good thing, because it requires a very large information campaign. One can think about how long it has taken and how people have actually had an attitude towards cars. Now the ordinary Dane starts to sit down and say that I expect to buy a car that drives 30 km on the liter, but now it really only runs 15 km on the liter. In other words, it would be positive if the citizens had the same feeling, because then we would also have something that would be real, and that would require a massive and large campaign with regard to the citizens, and that is what I can hear the Minister want to launch.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133113	Thank you for the question. I would like to say about the comparison with cars that I have made myself the experience of buying a car, which some people claimed had a very low energy consumption, and then it turned out that it was not entirely true. So it didn't go quite that far on the liter. It is absolutely crucial here, and it goes without saying, whether cars or housing, that you can have confidence in the energy label that exists and that it is as operational as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133136	The question is closed. Question 5 is also for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. And it is also posed by Mr. Carsten Kudsk, whom I now give the floor for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133147	Does the Minister intend to change the way in which people are energy-labelled houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133154	The Minister of Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133155	Thank you for the question. I am very concerned that the property owners get an energy label that they trust and that they can use. That is why I intend to make changes to the scheme, and this is very much the case for parcel houses as well. The label affects a great many Danes, and that is why I stress that the changes take place on a solid knowledge base and that all parties around the label are involved in the task. In January, I held a very constructive meeting with a large number of stakeholders on the label. At the meeting I invited the actors to help the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate to create the necessary knowledge base to change the scheme. Specifically, in the first half of the year, the Ministry and the Danish Energy Agency hold three full-day meetings with organisations and other actors on the label. We do so so that all knowledge can be put on the table before I have to make decisions about changes to the label. The aim is to have an energy label that gives buyers in the housing market a clear picture of a building's energy consumption. At the same time, the label must promote more energy savings in the buildings. I am very pleased to see how much support there is from the organisations to the work. That is why I am also looking forward to having an overall knowledge base presented in late summer, which will give me a foundation for making the right changes to the label.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133315	When the Minister looks at the report, the Minister can, among other things, look at the report. see that in relation to the energy label A, it is so that if you look at it in relation to the expected, i.e. the calculated consumption that you estimate for the dwellings with A, you can see that it does not correspond to the actual. The funny thing is that when you look at B, C and the rest of the classes, they start to agree nicely. And then it's a little fun to sit and think that because citizens absolutely want their houses in energy class A, they should have a very different consumer behavior than if we are talking about B, C or D. After all, there is not much difference. So there must be something wrong when the energy consultants and others who come out say that there is, for example, something wrong. is a calculation model in relation to an A's and that it does not correspond. Would it not be wiser to look at the label? I know that among other things. The Swedes look a lot at measured consumption, so you go in and say: We do it that you get an energy class A, it can a counselor come along with, as a temporary solution, and that you say that it might be for 1 year or 2 years. And then the real energy labelling comes afterwards. After all, that would require those advisers to be held accountable. For the problem today is that you can get an energy consultant out, who can say: Your house will be an energy class A, because I have calculated that. And when it doesn't hold water 1 year or 2 years later, you can't do anything about these advisors. It will also do that when these advisors stand before the citizen, you will be able to say: I just need to know one thing; this calculated value that you come up with is also what you expect? And you have been able to see very quickly in reports, so if you say: You live two or three or four people with a dog and a cat and open the doors very quickly that you can come up with some calculation models. And then we would get some real energy labels that are consistent with the facts. Because even if there is a consumption, in relation to whether you are a pensioner or a large family, energy consumption will of course be a small change. But it's really funny that the change is so big compared to the classes. So the Minister is not surprised that there is the big difference in energy class A, but not in the other classes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133523	That is also the reason why I want to change the mark. And that is also why we have called the industry to discuss it. There are challenges, no matter how you do this, I think. It is a task that is tied, we have to do it, but we have to do it in a way so that those who need to use the label get the most out of it and so that it becomes as useful as possible. Not least in terms of being able to be used as a basis for investing in energy saving measures. If there is not that value in the label, it is a waste of money, and it must not be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133602	What they also say in the report is that you have done it in relation to the label and to do some things in relation to the houses, that you have quietly screwed up the building regulations by years, where you have done it in good time, and then you say that you are now counting on and expecting something called a 2020 requirement at some point in time, and then you can adjust the accommodation accordingly. And that's the way the municipalities have done it. The problem is that now a saturation point has begun. That means you have to look at this in a new way. It's not gonna help. And that's what's gonna be exciting. But what does the Minister think about measures to change consumer behaviour in relation to housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133634	There's a lot of options. There is, of course, this brand, but there are also possibilities of using different ones, I would have liked to say, digital and technical solutions to reduce energy consumption. In other words, the most important thing, I think, is that a consumer should have as good a starting point as possible in order to be able to make investments. And that's why it's absolutely crucial, and that's why the government attaches a great deal of importance to the fact that when we're going to have this energy label changed, it's going to have to be much more operational than it is now. I do not have the recipe for it, and that is also the reason why I like to listen to smart people like you, but also to the industry at all, people who have insight into this, who can come up with good ideas; the questioner himself has come up with a few good ideas for places where you can also look, among other things. Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133721	That sounds positive. And what I would like to ask the Minister is that we are now hearing about the Swedish experience in terms of measured consumption. Does the Minister plan to take on other countries, Sweden and other countries, and go in and look at how they have the label and how they have made the different forms? Because that might be the kind of thing we might have to implement. At any rate, I have heard that there should be very positive experiences with the Swedish model. Is that something that the Minister also plans to take into account in his future work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133751	The minister to a final comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133752	Thank you for the question. I think it is right, right and proper in such a process here to be inspired from everywhere. And we have a good dialogue with the industry. I think there were 20-25 different industry representatives present at the meeting we had left at the beginning of the year. And I have an ambition that we should do this really, really thoroughly and thus also look at what is happening in the countries around us, so that we have an energy label that works and which is a proper basis for the individual family in terms of being able to make decisions about energy saving measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133824	Thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and thank you to the author, Mr. Carsten Kudsk. The question is closed. We shall now proceed to the last item on the agenda, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6 to the Minister for Finance, who has been appointed by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133838	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133839	Thank you. Does the government feel committed to the parliamentary adoption of V 10 on the elderly from this parliamentary year in connection with the forthcoming economic negotiations with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133850	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425133852	I feel obliged by all the agreements made by the government and by all the decisions we vote for. This means that I feel obliged by V 10. However, I personally may feel just as committed to the excellent financial agreement that the government entered into with the Danish People's Party, where there were a number of measures that both lifted the economy out in the municipalities to ensure that there were more warm hands present, but who also went in and looked at how we should focus more on what we got out of the funds we were using, so it was not just a question of how much money was spent, but what the impact of the funds being spent in the municipalities is also. So I kind of feel quite committed. I could then get the answer in 40 seconds, and as I have 1 minute 20 seconds left, I just want to say that the government is about to discuss the 2019 economic agreement with the municipalities of the country in the near future. It is clear that it will also be a key question as to what the framework should be for the running of the municipalities in the future. And what we've seen in recent years and now we don't have the figures for 2017, we'll only have them published tomorrow. In fact, the municipalities have chosen generally to go below what has been budgeted on the operation, and then go over what has been budgeted on the plant. However, exactly in the area of the elderly, it seems that you have been able to keep what you have planned to use, even when you look at the accounts, and even for some years you have been over. So I do not actually find that the municipalities, although overall they spend less on operating, choose to spend less on operating in the area of the elderly. I find this gratifying because we have a great responsibility for our older fellow citizens to have a good time, including the last time they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134046	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134047	Thank you for your answer. I, like the Minister for Finance, am extremely satisfied with the results achieved through the Finance Act. The reason why I am asking the question today is that we have seen that at least one municipality, the municipality of Bornholm, has already been out talking about cutting older people. We in the Danish People's Party think this is an unfortunate development, so there are some municipalities that now believe that less money can be spent on the elderly, especially in the light of the fact that there are more older people. Part of this resolution, which is, moreover, jointly drawn up by the government parties, is in the final paragraph of this paragraph. I would like to read out: the Danish Parliament pleads with the municipalities that the care of the elderly is a core task for the municipalities and that the downgrading of the care of the elderly will be met with further earmarking of the funds available to the municipalities...... It is of particular interest when we see that at least one municipality is now beginning to talk about removing funds from the elderly area. That is why I am curious whether, in an economic agreement with the municipalities, we could go in and make it a little more binding by saying that we actually mean this by the fact that the elderly certainly do not need less money. After all, it is one of the tools that the government has that the government, through the economic agreement with the municipalities, can agree that this is an important area. Now that we have adopted this together in the Folketing, I am interested to hear whether it is here that you take on the character of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134236	I think that it is in fact best that I negotiate with the municipalities and not through the Folketing as an intermediary. Let it just be said that some of what we are discussing is to ensure that the political decisions taken in the Folketing are also actually being lived out in the municipalities. Having said that, I negotiate with the National Association of Municipalities and thus the municipalities as a whole and not the 98 municipalities individually. The latter could be cozy, but would probably be a bit time-consuming compared to other things, which is why I am looking at what is happening in the municipalities as a whole. There we can actually see that they have all lived up to spending more money on the elderly over recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134321	I understand, of course, that the Finance Minister prefers to negotiate with his negotiating partners rather than with a rapporteur from the Folketing. After all, it makes much more sense in a busy everyday life. But then I would just like to call on the Minister of Finance to say that it was at least a tool to go in and create mechanisms in such an economic agreement that, in the context of their budgeting against expectations, if the municipalities were to remove money from the elderly area, it could have consequences for the municipalities, for example. Instead, priority is given to installations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134356	But now it is the case that I actually have the figures from recent years, and one can at least see that, year by year, the municipalities have spent more money on the elderly in both the budgets and the accounts we have received. So there is no basis for me to say that, overall, the municipalities have cut back in the area of the elderly. There is, of course, a challenge in this. On the one hand, we are getting healthier and healthier and need less help because we have less hard work, but on the other hand there is a larger group of older people, so there is a move. There I think it is probably quite different from municipality to municipality, how it weighs in, and therefore there is something to look at: What are the municipalities so forward-looking going to do? I fully agree with the questioner that this should be a point on which we are aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134441	The questioner for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134442	One might say that it is nice that the municipalities have chosen to spend more than they have budgeted with, but it may also have something to do with the budgetary process being such that the municipalities adopt their budgets in September-October. If we then add money to a financial law, it is clear that money will be added to the budget adopted by the municipalities themselves, and there is no guarantee that a financial law for next year will necessarily add more money to the municipalities. So it would be a good thing if the municipalities were obliged to ensure that this money is spent in the area of the elderly on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134515	It is cunning; it could have been the way the municipalities had done it, and that is why I have also got the accounts done before financial law appropriations and after financial law appropriations, and you can actually see, when you look at them both before financial law appropriations and after financial law appropriations, that year by year there is an increase in the spending of the municipalities on what has been recorded in the area of the elderly. Now we're a little in a challenge. For in December 2016, it was decided to change the inventory method, which means that it will be a little difficult to compare backwards with the accounting figures and the new accounting figures that will come. But what we can compare with, the figures we have, based on the old statements, actually shows that, overall, the municipalities have chosen to prioritise more. This does not mean that there can be no challenges in individual municipalities, and there I think that both the Folketing and local authorities should pay close attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134606	That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and thank the honourable Member. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180425134616	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 26 April 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
