ParlaMint-DK_20181010100006	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 69 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on sickness benefits and the Act on active social policy. Bill No. L 70 (Proposal for a law amending the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 71 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) and the law on free-care homes. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 17 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100057	The debate is open. This is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100121	Thank you. The bill covers three areas, all of which are part of the teleconciliation which the Social Democratic Party helped to conclude shortly before the summer recess. Many may recall when the Internet company Skyline went bankrupt a few years ago and the citizens were in the situation that from one moment to the next they lost their Internet connection without the possibility of being connected to another provider at short notice. Against this background, a broadband guarantee scheme was adopted in 2013 to ensure that other ISPs would take over at very short notice if something similar were to happen. This guarantee scheme has never been used and we consider the development and spread of the Internet in Denmark to have overtaken the legislation. In other words, the guarantee system is no longer needed and this proposal abolishes the system. Both municipalities, regions and large companies are increasingly using electronic communications when collecting information on e.g. consumption by citizens it can be remote reading of meters, inventory management, telemedicine, trash bins and other smart city solutions. For that, they need sim cards, and it turns out to be quite difficult when there is sometimes a need to change the provider because thousands of readers need to change cards. The replacement will eventually be digital and the problem will be dealt with effectively, but until then we think it would be useful for municipalities and others. can be allowed to change codes bypassing the telecommunications providers themselves, and this should make it easier and faster for them than it is today, so that physical sim cards do not need to be changed. The bill empowers the Danish Energy Agency to find the right way to do this in cooperation with the parties on the market, and this is done on the basis of consultation responses from the industry and industry organisations. The third part of the bill is actually the most important part. It is about establishing models for how municipalities must participate in and subsidise the roll-out of digital infrastructure. Unfortunately, the background is rather gloomy, and in recent years a number of municipalities have moved on more or less rocking ground with their agreements and activities in this field. This is why it is essential that a clear and firm framework should be established for the municipal action in this area. The models that are being drawn up will be pre-approved by the European Union, and it must in future provide certainty as to what the municipalities may and may not do, so that in future there will be no cases in which municipalities will be overruled or run the risk of legal proceedings before the European Court of Justice. For the Social Democratic Party, this part of the bill has been absolutely essential and I am glad that we are now facing a solution to this problem. Social democracy supports all parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100441	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100453	Thank you. Mrs Karin Gaardsted has just presented in the most perfect way what this is really about, and I think that was absolutely fantastic. So I won't be telling you exactly the same thing again. However, in the Danish People's Party, we are of course also very happy that we are introducing this and that we are keeping a little track of what the municipalities are allowed and what they are not allowed to do. And at the same time, we join it with those SIM cards so that we can switch providers without any major problems. So the Danish People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100525	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. It's fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100531	I could, of course, be very brief, but I still think that this bill deserves a little more words on the road. It is true, as Mrs Karin Gaardsted said, that this is a follow-up to the modernised telecommunications agreement which we concluded in May. It was time to celebrate a copper wedding, and there was discussion about whether it should also celebrate a silver wedding. But then we had a broad political agreement that ensures a reasonable and stable framework for Danish telecommunications policy in the future, and I think that is one of the most important things we can ensure for the telecommunications market to develop in the best possible way and the investments are top and all Danes have access to a lightning-fast broadband connection. So, for that reason alone, we could speak very and warmly in favour of the proposal. I should just like to focus briefly on the elements. One of them, as Mrs Karin Gaardsted explained, did indeed come in connection with Skyline's bankruptcy. In fact, there were proposals for that time that money should be paid in advance to the broadband guarantee scheme. As rapporteur for the Left, I opposed this, because I did not think that the likelihood of the scheme being put into effect was particularly high. It was an outdated technology that was behind the bankruptcy that was then. And sometimes you have to be happy that you get right when the time goes by. It turned out fortunately that it was not necessary, which is why I am, of course, very pleased that we will have it abolished. Likewise, I am very, very pleased that we have a very, very clear framework for how municipalities can support the roll-out of digital infrastructure and, in particular, for this to be done in a more sensible way than we have seen some examples of. Then you want to support development municipally, you know exactly how to handle it, so that you do not compete with private players either. After all, there is no need to pour taxpayers' money into a roll-out which the market still intended to make. So I am very pleased that we are helping here to provide a very clear framework so that it becomes clear what is possible and what is not possible. So full support from the Left for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100759	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010100816	It is insanely important for us in the Enhedslisten that we have the opportunity to have good broadband coverage and proper access to mobile telephony throughout the country. As it is now, it is still the case that very large parts of our rural areas have far too poor coverage. In other words, there are also several places in the cities where it could run better. But this helps to ensure that we also get to those places where it can be said that the market has so far not managed to provide a proper service to citizens, is something that we in the Enhedslist think is very, very important. That is also why we have agreed to this agreement now to help fight for better and better coverage for people, especially in our rural areas. I think it is very, very positive that what is here continues to be the broadband pool that is possible to seek; that the demand for frequencies is tightened when there is a supply in that area, so that operators are required to provide better coverage. The work that will come over the next few years to ensure a clear framework for how municipalities can act in order to ensure proper and good coverage for their citizens is a work that we very, very much want to take part in, and we want to press as much as possible for the municipalities to have very good conditions here. For example: I think it has been very important that, in connection with this work, we are also opening up to see that the municipalities are allowed to help make what is called intelligent tenders, so that they also ensure that network coverage is extended to employees and institutions and so on. in the municipality that you can actually help to ensure that much larger areas are covered. This is something that can be successfully done, especially in sparsely populated areas, which can therefore have a very good effect. So I think this is actually a really, really crucial area if we are to be able to work on spreading proper coverage to citizens throughout the country. The Enhedslisten can support the proposal on the basis that we actually think it is quite excellent and excellent initiatives that lie in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101055	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next one in the row that's here is Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101104	Thank you. L 23, which we are discussing here, one might almost call a small three-course menu consisting of three initiatives from the agreement on the future of telecommunications policy for the whole of Denmark, on which all the parties of the Folketing agree, which is very good. I would just like to highlight briefly some of what the Liberal Alliance put a little emphasis on in the political negotiations, and this is the case with local support for the roll-out of digital infrastructure, because we have seen some examples of the fact that precisely that area has lacked a clear framework. It has been important for the Liberal Alliance to focus on it and get it fenced in completely, so that we avoid illegal aid and do not harm competition, by the municipalities going private companies that can solve these tasks a little bit in the beds. So now we have the clear framework for the municipalities that will promote a digital roll-out, and that is of course good, but we get it fenced in so that we avoid public theft. In addition, there is machine-to-machine communication, where the initiatives here lead to more free choice of provider, and then we will last, but perhaps not least, have a little tidyed up in a grant jungle and a number of pools and have the broadband guarantee removed, which has also been mentioned earlier. This makes good sense in this context, and we are ready with a new agreement on telecommunications policy for the future, and fortunately all parties in the Folketing agree on this, which is why the Liberal Alliance is of course also supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101248	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101257	I can also say quite briefly that the alternative is in favour of this bill. However, I would just like to highlight one concern expressed by the Consumer Council Thinking, and I quote from their response to the hearing: "We must call on the Danish side to work to ensure that the future directive clearly states how the maximum price is calculated. It should therefore be avoided that the real price can be blown up through the use of call charges or charging per minute instead of charging per second. It is a concern which I, too, from the platform, will pass on to the Minister, Denmark, please, work to ensure that the future directive becomes quite unambiguous and clear in the spit as regards the calculation of these maximum prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101353	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left, to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101400	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I would like to say that the Radical Left too is part of the teleconciliation which these three elements represent. I, like several of the previous speakers, am particularly sensitive to the fact that, as a result of this work, there will be a clear framework for municipalities for roll-out of digital infrastructure • we think it is sensible and we warmly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101425	Thank you. This has passed quickly over the screen, so we have already come to hear the Minister. And so I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101439	Thank you for that, President. And thank the rapporteurs for their support for the bill. The bill translates three initiatives into the new teleconciliation, which was concluded between all the parties of the Danish Parliament in May 2018. Firstly, the draft law must provide a clear framework for municipalities, as they want to provide subsidies for roll-out of digital infrastructure. This is achieved by the Danish Energy Agency preparing proposals for grant models to be approved by the European Commission. Within the framework of these models, municipalities can then contribute to the development of digital infrastructure for the benefit of citizens and companies throughout Denmark. The models ensure the predictability and security of telecommunications providers in relation to their investments. Secondly, the legislative proposal must ensure that there is really free choice of provider for Machine-to-Machine communication. Free choice of suppliers will strengthen competition in this area. Machine-to-Machine communication is used for example. in municipalities that have sensors in bins that inform when to empty, or they are used in a shipping company that uses sensors for monitoring and automates the handling of containers on cargo ships. Today, the municipality or shipping company will have to replace the SIM card in all units if they want to change the telecommunications provider. With this proposal, the Danish Energy Agency will be able to lay down rules which mean that all SIM cards will not have to be replaced. You simply transfer the associated codes to the new provider. Thirdly, it is proposed that the rules on the Broadband Guarantee scheme should be abolished. The scheme is no longer necessary to maintain and has not been applied since it was established in 2013. Thank you again for the interest and support that the Things have expressed today for the bill. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the legislative proposal in committee. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101640	With that, we thank the Minister. And then I can inform you that the Conservative People's Party was also represented by the Left today. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101704	The debate has been opened, and that is what Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party, is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101726	It is important that consumers who buy refrigerators, freezers and other appliances to be connected to power can be well informed whether it is an energy-saving or an energy-consuming product they are buying. For several years we have been able to inform ourselves about energy labelling through a system of colours and letters. The European Union has now made a regulation that ensures better supervision of electronic devices and that restores the old energy labelling scale from A to G. After all, a regulation must be complied with by all EU Member States and there will therefore in future be no different interpretation options in each Member State. It must be easy and simple for consumers to read power consumption on an appliance and, at the same time, to set up an EU product database with all electricity products, so that there can be supervision and control of the area, and so that it can be sanctioned against producers who do not meet the energy and safety requirements. The new directive replaces the old EU regime, and the Social Democrats can agree to that. And I'll say hello from the SF and Enhedslisten and say that they also agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101853	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the Danish People's Party by Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010101900	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to make the necessary adjustments to Danish legislation as a result of the EU's new energy labelling regulation. First of all, the Danish product energy labelling law currently in force is abolished, since it is now effectively replaced by an energy labelling regulation, while at the same time introducing new Danish rules on how to enforce and sanction the regulation. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased with the way in which the energy labelling guides the Danes about how much energy a refrigerator, a freezer, a washing machine etc. user. This helps to give an impression of how much power the device you want to buy can be expected to use. Thus it gives the customer an option where you can use the product's energy properties as an important factor in your decision. The system of energy labelling of products has undoubtedly saved the Danes too much money, precisely because they have been able to deliberately choose a product with low energy consumption instead of a product with high energy consumption. Thus, energy labelling has benefited the individual's wallet, as well as significant environmental benefits from low energy consumption. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party are pleased with the energy labelling, but we are wondering why it seems necessary to change the rules from being national legislation to being pure EU legislation in the form of a regulation. However, since we believe, after all, that the regulation has a sensible content which will benefit the Danes, we support the draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102103	Thank you for that, President. After all, as the previous rapporteurs have said, L 24 is a alignment of legislation in relation to energy labelling of electronic products, and it is a very good idea and a good example of where we can benefit from thinking across borders within the European Union. It is, of course, the case in Denmark that we have a strength position in the energy-efficient area, and so we do in relation to the products that we supply here. The development has gone so far that we have had energy label A, which we should then develop with A+ and afterwards with A++ and even with A+++. We are therefore taking a stand on this now and getting a uniform approach, so that the scale will now go from A to G, and it is very appropriate both for the companies that produce in Denmark and for the companies and private citizens who buy in throughout Europe. This leads to less administration and trouble, and this double regulation is also being removed, which is why this is, of course, a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102217	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we have reached Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102225	Thank you. About L 24 on energy labelling, there should be little more to be said than that the EU regulation provides for clean-up in Danish legislation, and it is safe to say that common European rules on energy labelling are and will be a huge success to be followed. It provides very high-level consumer information and promotes the energy efficiency of these electrical appliances. This ensures a fairly high level of transparency for consumers, and we must, of course, follow that up, and we must, of course, align ourselves with a new EU regulation. This is also the result of the specific legislative proposal here that we are getting rid of double regulation, which is why I can only say A+++ on the part of the Liberal Alliance and, of course, we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102324	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102333	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to stand here today and to help implement a new legislation in Denmark that I myself have fought for in my previous work. It has actually been a really long battle in Europe, where, on the one hand, business wanted to keep this scale, which was first called A, so when it was revised it became A+, the next revision A++, and you simply could not imagine when you were done, if you were going after A++++ in 10 years. It goes without saying that it would not make sense for consumers when we got there, and that is why environmental organisations in Europe have fought this fight to make this mark a mark for consumers, which is easily understandable, because until now it has been the case that consumers have had to keep up with the length of this scheme. Is it good enough to find a refrigerator called A+, or do I have to find one that is A++, or am I really way behind because the best refrigerator is now called A+++++ with six or seven pluses. It is therefore very gratifying that we have agreed to make a regulation so that there are common rules directly applicable in all EU Member States and where the scale is now called A to G, which means that as a consumer you can always safely go down and choose your A-labelled refrigerator or freezer, or whatever you have to buy, and in this way know that you are now choosing the best. You just always have to go for an A, then you choose it with the lowest energy consumption. It's a good consumer policy, and I'm glad that that fight was won so we could get out of this endless noose of pluses that there's been so far. I would like this to happen to vehicles too, and I know that it is a slightly different regime it is running, but it might be interesting to hear whether the Minister knows anything about whether it is on the way for vehicles too, or whether it is something that the government is generally interested in perhaps in the Minister's speech at the end. However, we can support the proposal and are very pleased that it has come to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102558	Thank you. There were many pluses here. Now it is plus the Radical Left in the rapporteur's line. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102604	Thank you very much. In the Radicals too, we are very concerned that products that use energy are as effective as possible. It is good for the climate, and it is good for the citizens and the businesses' economy that no more than necessary is being used, and the European Union has now made a regulation on the framework for the labelling of energy-related products. The regulation has direct effect and, in order not to have double legislation, it is necessary to repeal the existing Danish rules in this area. In addition, the draft law lays down additional provisions on enforcement and sanctions, and we support this as well. In short, Radicals can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102638	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. We have, in fact, already reached the Minister, because we have spoken on behalf of other parties in order, so it is now the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102653	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments on the legislative proposal. The EU's rules on energy labelling of appliances provide Danish and European consumers with a transparent market for energy-using appliances across Europe. Energy labelling is a very important tool for promoting energy efficiency together with ecodesign, which requires the energy consumption of appliances, and energy labelling is a source of significant energy savings for Danish and European consumers. At the same time, energy labelling takes account of companies that are capable of sending energy-efficient appliances to the market. Energy labelling of appliances from a pan-European perspective is therefore a significant success story. In 2017, the Energy Labelling Directive of appliances that have so far regulated the area was replaced by a Regulation and therefore the area should not be regulated by national legislation. With the legislative proposal, we will clean up the legislation so that there is no double regulation. This means, in concrete terms, that the current law on the energy labelling of appliances is repealed and, in addition, we are giving the legislative proposal the legal basis for enforcing the regulation. The regulation makes some very concrete improvements for consumers, among others. A+ and higher categories are abolished so that, as a customer in the future, only a scale from A to G is taken into account. This makes it easier for consumers to navigate the market for refrigerators, washing machines, computers, etc. The regulation also provides for enhanced market surveillance, which will establish increased cooperation between national authorities responsible for market surveillance. That is why we have taken a positive view of the proposal to change the legal basis for energy labelling from directive to regulation. In this way, the same legal basis will be created in all Member States, and this will benefit both Danish consumers and producers. Compared with the proposal put forward, there is a need for a slight adjustment of the transitional provisions of the law. The adjustment is of a technical nature and will be dealt with by tabling a small amendment in committee. The alternative asked about it in relation to cars, and here I have to say that we have to come back with this, but at first sight I think it makes sense to look at it, but it's not part of this legislation and this set of rules. But we have to look at it, so let us have a dialogue on it. I would urge all parties in the Folketing to support the bill so that we can continue to ensure the enforcement of the labelling of the energy consumption of appliances for the benefit of citizens and business.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010102931	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions now. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. There are no objections, so it has been adopted. Now we are in the situation where I shall suspend the sitting. Question Time is scheduled for noon. 1 p.m. today, and 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130004	The sitting is resumed. I have to inform you that under No. Question No 7 S 104) to the Minister for Finance will be withdrawn today at the request of the author. We start with Question No. 1, and this is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130031	Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130034	Thank you for that, and the question is: does the Foreign Minister agree that the EU needs strategic autonomy, as the French President, Emmanuel Macron, stressed during his visit to Denmark, and if so, what does the Foreign Minister think this strategic autonomy should be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130057	Thank you for the question. The concept of the EU's strategic autonomy is not, as such, a new concept. The concept has developed over the past 20 years in various forms and is indeed an important element of the EU's global strategy from 2016. It says, and I quote: an appropriate level of strategic autonomy is important for Europe's ability to foster peace and security both internally and externally. Quote out. There is no clear definition of strategic autonomy and, therefore, there may of course be nuance differences in its interpretation. At the heart of the government's understanding is that strategic autonomy is that Europe should shoulder greater responsibility for our own security in a more unpredictable and uncertain world. The government basically supports this ambition. That does not change the fact that NATO remains the cornerstone of our security. That will not be pushed forward, and that is why I am also pleased that, at the last NATO summit, where I myself took part, there was agreement to strengthen cooperation between NATO and the European Union. This ensures that NATO and the European Union complement each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130211	It doesn't sound very disturbing at the moment when the Secretary of State presents things in this way. But then it has to be said that the Foreign Minister himself has used words which may indicate something else. At any rate, I noted the Minister for Foreign Affairs' speech in the House of Industry on Monday, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was injured so I would say, I do not know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees to say that the European Union should be, quote, superpower plus, quote over. It actually sounds kind of like something you can buy at a gas station, i.e. Oktan 100 or something. However, I believe that what the Foreign Minister really means by this is that the European Union must play with its muscles internationally. I have to say that I and the Danish People's Party disagree with the Foreign Minister, if that is what is at issue. Because we firmly believe that our cooperation lies best within NATO and we find it very difficult to see exactly what the European Union is offering us, which we must have such a terrible interest in being involved in. Now, on Friday, we are going to be in the European Committee, where, as I understand it, the Foreign Minister is unfortunately unable to be here, among other things. discuss matters surrounding the Central African Republic and the EU's involvement in the Central African Republic, and that is something that Denmark does not take part in, among other things. Because of the defence reservation. There we just feel the way in the Danish People's Party that we are kind of happy about that. But when you hear what the Foreign Minister says here in the House of Industry and, to this extent, today, you get a little impression of the opposite, in other words that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has an ambition that we should, if we may say so, take part in some more war on the Danish side, and the war in which we are going to take part should take place under the auspices of the European Union. Is that how the Secretary of State should be perceived?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130411	I am actually extremely pleased with the follow-up question, not because it reveals in itself that the questioner came a little late in my speech, but I think we can see that, otherwise the questioner would have known what it was I defined as being a superpower plus. It is a concept that I wrote about in my book 'The way to a better Europe', which dates back to 2003, and the definition is, in fact, that in the conceptual world we work with, you have the concept of superpower, and that was earlier, before the fall of the Wall, something like that. connected with the United States and the Soviet Union. But being a superpower plus is actually something that belongs to something completely different from that with gunpowder and bullets. It is a matter of what comes after the war, helping to rebuild institutions and helping to stabilise countries that have been at war, helping to rebuild and thus ensuring that peace is also sustainable. And there Denmark and there, I think, the European Union can do something that separates us from what others can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130514	I have read the Foreign Minister's book many years ago, because I think I read it a year or a few years after it came out. But I actually had the impression that the attitude that shines through in that book had changed for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I did not think that what the Foreign Minister wrote back in 2003 was what the Foreign Minister actually meant in 2018. But perhaps the Foreign Minister could mention whether everything in that book is still an expression of the views of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130552	That would be weird. I'm also quite sure that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, despite some sort of conservatism that is rolling in blood, with regard to certain views has changed views over the past 20 years or 15 years, in some areas perhaps even compared to what was thought 2-3 years ago. I think that is quite reasonable. You have to see such a book in the time in which it has been written, and it will of course be the case if you go through that book today that there are then elements where I have changed my views. But this thing about being a superpower plus I think is a really, really good concept that I think we should work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130632	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130633	I would therefore like to ask the Minister a very simple question: what does the Minister intend to do with the defence clause? Does the Minister think that we should abolish that defence reserve? Do we need a vote? How soon are we going to have that vote? Or does the Minister think that the defence reserve has actually served Denmark well? Because that is what protects us from participating in the kind of strategic autonomy that I am worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130703	In other words, one question requires a simple answer: I want to get rid of the defence reserve, quite clearly. I have never concealed the fact that this is one of the reservations that I actually want us to get rid of, not the euro reservation, but I want to get rid of the defence reservation. I think that is one of the paradoxical things, namely that we, for example, are doing this. can participate in NATO operations, international operations in the context of the liberation of the Balkans, and then when peace is to be rebuilt afterwards, and it will be under EU leadership to do so, then we have to withdraw home. It seems to me to be a completely contradictory situation to have ended up in. That is why the answer for me as leader of the Liberal Alliance is: yes, let us get rid of the defence reserve. That is not government policy at this stage; I hope it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130746	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the questioner is also Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130759	That is a little in line with the previous question. It says: what is the Foreign Minister's position on the ambitions for the establishment of a nuclear defence for the European Union, such as: the German political scientist and former professor at the German Defence Academy Christian Hacke and the foreign policy rapporteur for the CDU, Roderich Kiesewetter, have submitted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130817	Thank you for the question. I am aware of the intervention in Germany to which the honourable Member refers. This is an individual contribution to the debate and to the wider debate in Germany on the defence dimension of the European Union, as well as the speculation about the future American commitment to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010130844	The question has to be asked: now that the Foreign Minister wants to abolish the defence reserve, how does the Foreign Minister view the fact that there are forces in Europe that have an ambition for the European Union to be equipped with nuclear deterrents, in other words with nuclear weapons? Personally, I would like to say that I think this is worrying and I think it is worrying for many reasons. It is questionable on the basis of a question of who will then make the decision to activate such a nuclear weapon. It is also questionable from such a democratic point of view, in other words who is in control of it, because it will then no longer be a country, but an international organisation that has nuclear weapons. Then, of course, this is also questionable in terms of the dimension of NATO cooperation. The fact is that Europe is covered by a nuclear umbrella called the United States first and foremost. Then I am aware that Britain and France also have nuclear weapons. As can be seen, among other things: of this article from the New York Times last year, which was also pondering about these things, the intention was that the French nuclear arsenal should be taken over by the European Union, so that it was at the disposal of the European side. And there it is just again that one has to ask the Foreign Minister very clearly: does the Foreign Minister share the view that it would be advantageous for Europe, for the European Union, to have nuclear deterrents?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131013	I think that the way in which we have organised it at this stage is entirely and entirely satisfactory. The only thing I would like is for Denmark to get rid of the defence reserve at some point, but it has not, as it were, directly to do with this issue, I think, because I think basically that the way we have allocated the tasks at this time and the nuclear umbrella that we are under is well functioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131037	So I have to understand that in the event of this happening so hopefully the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not right and we get rid of the Danish defence reserve, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs will not rush into the fight to get a nuclear deterrent in Europe. I get that. But is it also to be understood that Denmark will oppose it if it is the case that other countries want to go that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131106-2	I simply think it is an incredibly hypothetical question. This is already the case, and we both know that the Germans generally have a discussion which is going on on the other side or in the middle, or whatever to call it, about how wise it is with great German armament qua history. So from there there is a further long way to come to a situation where we start to discuss seriously whether the Germans should have nuclear weapons. That is why I think it is simply too hypothetical to stand and discuss it at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131135	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131136	I have to say that I disagree with the Minister, because I really think most Danes would like to know whether this is an ambition shared by the government, i.e. whether it is an ambition shared by the government with the rapporteur for the CDU, Roderich Kiesewetter, that we should go that way. And that is certainly something that I think the Danes should have an answer to before we might have a referendum on the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131206-2	But I've answered that question. Haven't you been there? Now I'm pretty sure that mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth has also been present during my first answer to the question. There I said very clearly that I think the way we have organised it at this stage is an absolutely excellent way of organizing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131226	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for today's efforts. Then we move on to Question 3, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the questioner is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131241	Thank you. Will the Foreign Minister clarify his position on the allegations by the Iranian regime that Denmark houses opposition groups which are engaged in terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131251	Thank you for the question. There should be no doubt that Denmark condemns terrorist attacks wherever they take place in the world. It is particularly terrible when, as was the case during the recent terrorist attack, children are also affected. My position on the Iranian statements is actually quite clear: if it turns out that there are people in Denmark who have been specifically involved in the planning or execution of an act of terrorism, then it is deeply serious and we must, of course, respond to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131326	Well, that's fine. I am just wondering why the Foreign Minister does not answer the Iranians when they stop sponsoring Hezbollah, who murders Israeli civilians, Hamas, who murders Israeli civilians, and assassinating political opponents around Europe, stop executing homosexuals from cranes. Well, it's a form of terrorism, isn't it? So perhaps you can take your own bosom first, because I wonder why the Foreign Minister does not mention it at all to the Iranians, i.e. when the Iranian clergy themselves stop financing terrorists. Because I hope that the Foreign Minister can confirm that Iran is financing Hamas and Hezbollah and other terrorist organisations, not least in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131405	There is a great deal of criticism for the Iranians, and we do so continuously in the dialogues we have with the Iranians.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131415	But then I have to say again to the Minister that I do not think there has been any public criticism of the Iranian reactions. I think it's a little strange to run around criticizing others for housing terrorists when you're practicing terror yourself. One of the things that many exilicans who live in Denmark have said is that there is no freedom of expression in Iran and there is no freedom of assembly. Can the Minister confirm that it is really difficult to be an opposition in Iran and that there is a risk of going to jail or worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131446	I can certainly confirm that it is quite difficult to be an opposition in Iran.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131453	So no matter how many Iranian demands there are, the Danish side will not meet them with the fact that they themselves must stop financing terrorists and that they themselves must stop executing homosexuals from cranes, and that they themselves must start to seize their own bosom in every way before they accuse inhabiting Iranians who have fled from one of the worst dictatorship regimes, of terrorism, when they themselves commit such acts of terror and also assassinate people? I mean, I'm thinking that resident Iranians shouldn't be afraid to be extradited just because they're against the Iranian priesthood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131519	We take care of the people who are in Denmark and who are legally resident in Denmark, of course we do. I can stress to the questioner that I almost think it is a strange question to get, in other words how far I think it is okay that some support terrorism. There is no one for whom it is okay to support terrorism, either from my point of view or from the government's point of view or from the Folketing in general. There is, of course, a very broad consensus on this. This is a strange way of putting things forward, that is to say, suggesting that I can accept that there are some who support terrorism. I do not support terrorism at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131555	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the This is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the questioner is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131605	Welcome and go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131608	Thank you very much. And the question is: what is the Foreign Minister's position that the leaders of the two largest Catalan NGOs continue to be imprisoned for ordinary, peaceful political activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131622	First of all, and I would like to reiterate this, the position of the Danish Government, as it has always been, that the question of Catalonia is an internal Spanish matter which must be dealt with within the framework of the Spanish Constitution. In relation to the ongoing legal proceedings against Catalan NGO leaders, I am confident that the Spanish legal system is working and I see no reason to get involved in this issue on the basis of this. Having said that, we have called, in line with the European Commission, for a dialogue between the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131659	This question is, of course, due to a very strong concern about recent developments in Spain and the Spanish Government's lack of respect for fundamental human rights and political freedoms. Next month we can celebrate a very worrying anniversary in Europe: the anniversary of the imprisonment of a number of elected Catalan politicians and of the two leaders of the two largest Catalan civil society organisations, the leader of the Catalan NGO ANC Jordi Sanchez, and the head of the cultural organisation Omnium Cultural Jordi Cuixart. The two leaders have now soon been imprisoned for a year, and what is their crime? It is to use ordinary political freedom to demonstrate and express itself peacefully and non-violently, that is to say, activities that would be perfectly normal and legal at home. Both Amnesty International and a number of politicians and governments have criticized these imprisonments. Spain is, after all, a country that many of us know and care about, and when friends do wrong, I suppose we also owe it to them to tell them. So my question is this: has the Danish Government, has the Foreign Minister taken the initiative to tell the Spanish Government that in Europe we are not imprisoning leaders of civil society organisations for legal political activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131830	As I said, I have confidence in the Spanish judicial system until proven otherwise, and that is really what I have to say about it. I believe that, in general terms, we are talking about this conflict on an internal Spanish issue and that it must be resolved in accordance with the Spanish Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010131847-2	But questions of human rights are not internal matters. Issues of human rights and political freedoms are not internal political matters. In many cases we have seen this government have strong views on countries that violate political freedoms and human rights, and in terms of the independence and impartiality of the Spanish legal system, it has also been seriously questioned. First of all, it is quite a different legal system from what we know at home, that is to say, it is judges appointed by the political parties and who, moreover, are often members of the political parties; many of them, for example, are members of political parties. members of the Conservative Party. And secondly, we have recently seen how a number of these judges have leaked the statements, calling the Catalan politicians and activists rapists, Nazis and other insults. And that is why they have once again cast doubt on the independence of the Spanish legal system. So can we really leave this to be an internal political matter when there are political prisoners in a Member State of the European Union who are imprisoned for peaceful political activities? Shouldn't friends of Spain step up and say: Enough is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132001	I therefore have to rely on my first two answers, i.e. that I have confidence in the Spanish legal system. I believe that, in relation to the current conflict, what I can do, and what we are doing on the part of the European Union, is to call for dialogue. And then we have to wait for the pending trials.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132020	On what does the Foreign Minister base his confidence in the Spanish legal system? And the Foreign Minister thus disagrees with, for example. Amnesty International, who calls the imprisonment of these two leaders out of proportion and a violation of their political freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132038	Again I would say, and now I am asked to Amnesty, that I have great respect for Amnesty and the work they are doing. As regards the criticism of the way in which the courts handle the case, I have to say once again that, in general, I have confidence in the Spanish judicial system, and I therefore see no reason for further involvement in that issue on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132105	That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the questioner is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132118	The question is: what is the position of the Foreign Minister that elected Catalan politicians continue to be imprisoned for ordinary, peaceful political activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132128-2	This is the position of the Danish Government, which has always been that the question of Catalonia is an internal Spanish matter which must be dealt with within the framework of the Spanish Constitution. In relation to the ongoing legal proceedings against the Catalan politicians, I am confident that the Spanish judiciary will deal with those matters and I see no reason to get involved in this issue on the basis of this. In addition, we in Denmark, in line with the European Commission, have called for dialogue between the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132201	After all, this issue is about a very, very serious situation. For the first time in Europe's recent history, we find ourselves in a situation where elected politicians and ministers in a government are imprisoned and have done so soon a year • not for corruption or other forms of crime. No, they are imprisoned for having done one of the most democratic acts one can almost imagine, namely to give their people the opportunity by referendum to make their position known to them something they had even been elected to do. The politicians have now been in prison for almost a year, many of them have small children, and they have been located far from their families. After all, this is not about whether or not you are in favour of Catalan independence. This question is whether we can accept the detention of some of our colleagues, elected parliamentarians, in the middle of Europe in a Member State of the European Union. Does the Foreign Minister think that this situation is something that suits Europe, something that should take place in the middle of Europe in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132313	Now, to put it bluntly, it is the fifth time that I have the same question, which is why the answer is also the same. Well, that's no wonder. So I would like to say two things: 1) The Catalan question is an internal Spanish matter. 2) I have confidence in the Spanish judicial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132332-2	Is it that a country in Europe, whatever country it is, is imprisoning elected politicians for peaceful activities, an internal matter for each country? Is it a violation of the political freedom of the elected representatives and, therefore, of the democratic mandate given to them by the people an internal matter? Is it that leaders of large NGOs are in prison, an internal Spanish issue? At home, it would be like having members of the Danish Nature Conservation Association or similar large member organisations with millions of members in prison. This is a failure, Minister, to the values on which we say our continent is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132413	I do not think it is a failure unless I am made aware that the Spanish judicial system is not working and that I cannot have confidence in the Spanish judicial system. I can. I have no reason not to have confidence in the Spanish judiciary at this time, which is why the answer is, of course, the same as I have given in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132431	We are living at a time when Europe is witnessing an increasingly authoritarian development in a number of countries where freedoms, which we have previously thought were something we were guaranteed, are being trampled underfoot in Hungary, Poland, but also in Spain, where this is not only the case with Catalan political prisoners. We have also seen musicians being imprisoned for making a critical song about the royal house and being sentenced to prison for it. It is a clear breach of basic freedom of expression. Is it not precisely at this time that countries should stand up and tell their friends when fundamental political freedoms are violated, rather than hiding behind wordings that are read from a paper written in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132520	Now I kind of put away the papers, but I know them by heart. I could do that before I entered the room, and I could also memorize the questions that I would be asked, because there is nothing surprising about the questions being asked. They have been placed almost identically now six or seven times in a row. The answer is, in fact, still the same. Moreover, it can also be seen that it is not because the Commission is not monitoring what is going on around Europe. That is why there is a debate with Poland at the moment, and so is Hungary, but there has not been a similar question raised in relation to the Spanish judicial system, and that is why the answer is that I trust the Spanish judicial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132558	That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank him. Pelle Dragsted for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of This is for the Minister of Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132615	Will the Minister address the questions that Mayor of Albertslund Steen Christiansen wishes to clarify in a letter sent to the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on 5 July 2018, about what plans the government has with regard to the reason for the now closed Vridsløsleille State Prison, as well as regarding the mayor's suggestion that the government should ask the state property company Freja for • together with the Albertslund Municipality to initiate the overall planning for the use of the land?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132644	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I fully understand Albertslunds Municipality's desire to develop the area and the land on which Vridsløslelille State Prison is located. I also think we can agree that it has taken some time to clarify the future of Vridsløsløslele State Prison, but there is a good explanation for that. After all, it is well known that, in the light of the refugee/migratory crisis, the prison has solved various tasks in relation to foreigners. First of all, the prison has been used for detention, among other things. rejected asylum seekers, and secondly, the prison had to be part of the reception capacity that was kept clear in the event of increased refugee/migratant pressure. In other words, we should be ready if people were to rush across borders. Subsequently, however, there has been a need to use only a small part of the prison's large capacity to be detained, among other things. rejected asylum seekers and there has been no need to use the prison as reception capacity. The prison is therefore now dormant, and the task of detention, among other things. the rejected asylum seekers are now being dealt with elsewhere in the Criminal Services. As I have said, I fully understand the mayor's point of view in this matter, and therefore it is also my expectation that within a few weeks we will now have a final clarification of what is going to happen to Vridsløsløs small state prison in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132807-2	Thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased that the Minister can now say that there will be clarification within a few weeks. Many of us in Albertslund are looking forward to learning about it. I would like to hear the Minister's immediate comment on the mayor's suggestion that, although the ground may not already be disposed of, a master plan for the site can already be drawn up, and architectural competition and low traffic analysis etc., so that we can get started on the work that has a time perspective of 3-4 years. In other words, will it be possible to initiate any of these initiatives before the land is legally transferred by the State?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132902	There could be more steps in this. I understand Albertslund Municipality, and I have also talked to the mayor about it, and I think we owe it to the municipality to make a final decision as to whether or not we want to dispose of the prison before the municipality starts planning, because it is a lot of money to get into something if one imagined that the state said that they would not sell it at all. That is what needs to be resolved. If the prison ends up being sold off, we will, of course, ensure that the municipality has the opportunity to talk to Freja and the Department of Criminal Services about a possible takeover. So there will be nothing wrong with the municipality starting to look more specifically at how the land can be used. I think that would be very natural if you were sitting in the chair in which the mayor is sitting. Now I say within a few weeks, and I think that with the big planning, where a lot of money needs to be spent, the short time was with the waiting time that you have had maybe very wise just to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010132959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133000	I am glad that the Minister says that a few weeks is a short time. Can we learn how short this is? A few weeks, is it on this side of Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133012	Yeah, it certainly is, but it's before.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133019	I think it is the case that in the West and in Albertslund in October we will have a clear answer as to what will happen to the site of Vridsløsløslele State Prison, and the Minister will finally have to correct me if I am too optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133035	I'd like to say thank you. Minister of Justice, may I respond?). Of course the Minister has to answer, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133043	Thank you. I just want to confirm the questioner that we are within the time frame that has been asked for without setting a precise date. I also have the hope that we can resolve this matter for everyone's benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133058	It would be a great, great harm not to let a minister answer. Thank you to the Minister for Justice, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye for today's work. In a moment, when the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior arrives, we move on to Question No. Question No 8, by Mr de la Malène 7 has lapsed at the request of the author. But we just have to wait a moment, as we probably will not get any answers if there is not a minister present. If we do not succeed in bringing him forward, we will move on to Question No 1 in a moment. 9. But there is not a minister there either, so we have to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133256	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is on their way. Delays are fortunately rare. So I propose that we move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group He is here, and the questioner is also present. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. So I would like to recommend that we take that question first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133320	I am reading the question and it is this: does the Minister believe that the government's action in the climate area is sufficiently ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133331	Thank you. And thank you for the question, though it has come a little bit faster than I had just expected. Thank you, however, to the President-in-Office. This government has so much addressed the climate challenge. With the energy agreement, the Danish energy system is moving towards a radical green transition. Yesterday we presented a proposal in which, among other things, we... I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. We set a target for stopping sales of new petrol and diesel cars by 2030. We are making demands that will lead to the taxi fleet being expected to be totally green by 2030. We will enter into an agreement with the municipalities on zero-emission buses in cities, and at the same time we propose a series of measures to make it easier to be an electric car owner here and now, so that we are ready and have the experience when the major technology breakthrough approaches. At the same time, with the climate scenario, we are also launching the next difficult steps, which set the tracks towards a climate-neutral Denmark by 2050 at the latest. This is a huge challenge and we do not have all the answers yet. That is why we are launching a series of climate research and development initiatives in agriculture. These are just some of the measures the government has taken on the domestic track. However, if we really have to deal with global climate challenges, we cannot do so alone. That is why we in the European Union are putting pressure on car manufacturers to speed up technological developments, just as we are working for the European Union to lead as the good example, among other things. in that the EU can send a signal at COP24 that we are ready to strengthen our contribution to the Paris Agreement and that the EU is taking the lead in setting a climate neutral target by 2050 at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133510	Thank you to the Minister for reviewing what the government intends to do. It says, among other things, that... in the play we could see yesterday, and I read that. So my question is not about what the government is doing, but about whether what you are doing is ambitious enough. It can also be read in the motion that the measures are expected to contribute a reduction of 26 million. t CO2 But the Minister also knows that the EU requirement is at least 32 million. a. So the government has presented a climate project in this area that does not meet the requirements we have from the European Union. It's the first thing you have to deal with when it comes to whether this is good enough and ambitious enough. Secondly, I would perhaps like to ask the Minister to confirm that 80%. The reduction that is then proposed here is a reduction that will be achieved without actually taking any action. It comes from the recognition of forestry in this, and it comes from the purchase of quotas in other countries. Then the Minister can confirm that the government with this proposal does not meet the EU requirement, and that 80%. What action is actually being taken will be an effort which, as it were, is a piece of desk work which does not mean that something is changing in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133636	Thank you for the question. To the first part of the question, I can just say that we reach 26 million. t with the game there is. We achieve this in different ways, including quota cancellation and LULUCF, i.e. removals from soil and forest. But it is also the case that there is still some time to 2030 and, as part of the energy agreement, from 2026 the target of spending 250 million has been set. kr. per year in relation to further actions. So I'd say we're actually in time. There are 12 years to 2030 and we have already delivered 26 million. T, and that's why we're on our way. To the second part I would say that it is true that we include removals from land and forest, and we include quota cancellation in the 26 million. a.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133720	Should I then understand that there are other commands from the government on how to meet the EU's objectives, or is it simply something that the government chooses to push for in 6-8 years or some other time? That's point one. Paragraph 2: It's just to confirm whether it's right to understand that when you include those things, that is, the 80%. It is not, of course, a change in society that comes from inclusion in forests and from quota cancellation, and that is a solution which, so to speak, is made at the desk and which does not change the act of society around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133806	I repeat it from before: there is still some time to 2030, and I do not expect this to be the only thing we are going to decide towards 2030. With this climate play, we're on our way to meeting the challenge. Moreover, there is some uncertainty as to how much the shortfall will be by 2030. There are ongoing assessments of this, it has been somewhat down, now it has grown slightly lately, and so it will be up to 2030. But we are certainly dealing with the greater part of the task of the government yesterday. So it is that we have been given the opportunity to include the quota cancellation and LULUCF, and we do, because Denmark has a large agricultural sector. That is why we have had some flexible mechanisms in order to achieve the objective in 2030. And when we cancel a quota, we withdraw a quota from the market, and then we do not have the opportunity to sell it, and thus we also deliver the CO2 In the same way, when we include removals from land and forest, the prerequisite is that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133917	Is it true that the benefit of the climate from quota cancellation depends on whether there are few quotas, i.e. whether there is a shortage in the quota system or whether there is actually a surplus of quotas? For then it would not be worth much to the climate for the Danish government to buy. Is it also true that this could risk postponing the necessary efforts to a later stage when they might become more expensive? And then I would like to hear what to say, that the government does not meet the EU target, but promises that it will do so at a later stage. What is behind that formulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010133959	Thank you. Well, sir. Jens Joel, we are going to live up to the EU target. We're going to deliver 39%. CO2 In relation to the quota system, it is of course the case that a reform has been carried out, such as Denmark, and as the author's party also strongly supported, where it succeeded well and well six months ago in getting an agreement among the EU's climate and energy ministers to reform the quota system. Quotas have been withdrawn, and that was to get a more correct and fair price for deriving CO2 With the regulation that has taken place and with the reform that has been implemented by the quota system, there has actually been a quadrupling of the price, compared to what a quota cost a year ago, and we consider that as being in the right direction, compared to the fact that there is also a link between the quota price and the cost of deriving 1 tonne of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134049	Thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and Mr. Jens Joel. That was the end of Question 9. I can see that, for practical reasons, we must move on to Question 10, which is also for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and also by Mr Beazley. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134110	It says: will the Minister ensure that climate action not only concentrates on transport but also ensures the necessary effort in relation to buildings and agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134122	Thank you for the question. Climate action requires thorough action. With the energy initiative, the government has set in motion a significant effort to reduce the reductions from the housing area. We have made it more attractive to have heat pumps, to set aside energy efficiency funds and to create a recycling pool for oil pine. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is just something quite different. We do not have windmills like in the energy sector, nor do we have electric cars like in transport. We have cows and they emit greenhouse gases, and we grow the land and use manure, and it emits greenhouse gases. We simply lack the good solutions that work and can really move something. That is why we must first of all focus on developing climate-friendly solutions through targeted research and development efforts, and that is why the government will allocate 90 million. kr. for climate research in agriculture. At the same time, we must remember that agriculture must continue to be able to cope with the fierce competition that exists on the international market. It is of course no use that agricultural production is now regulated so hard that it moves to other countries where it emits more. This would be bad for the Danish economy and for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134236	I do not really know whether it should be interpreted as a 'no' to the questions, that is to say that the Minister will not ensure that this effort is spread out. I can then ask in another way, because the government's climate change initiative is not doing anything to increase energy efficiency efforts in buildings, for example. This will, of course, be crucial both for the climate, for the Danish business community and in fact also make the green transition cheaper in the long term. Therefore, it is not so surprising that there have been a number of critical voices from some of the top business people in this area, and for example Kim Fausing from Danfoss has been criticizing the fact that energy efficiency improvements of buildings do not play a role in the climate project just presented. What are the Minister's comments on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134321	Thank you for the question. The answer to that question is that energy efficiency is part of the energy agreement. We've dealt with that there. Two pools have been set aside. The questioner's party itself has been an active participant in the energy agreement. 300 million kr. In addition, the European Union will continue to support efforts in the field of energy efficiency and energy saving, and 200 million in the area of energy efficiency and energy saving. kr. in relation to buildings. So I've handled that there. Then I would like to stress once again, when the questioner asks what is being done in the other areas, as I said in my reply just now, that it is absolutely crucial that we have something that works. As far as agriculture is concerned, it has to be said that the only thing that really works there is to cut production. We do not want that. On the other hand, we want us to try to work to find technological solutions that will ensure that Danish agriculture and food production are even more climate-friendly. If we are to achieve this, we need a research effort, and that is why we have set aside 90 million for the climate project. kr. for that purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134421	I am just trying to ask once again quite specifically: when Kim Fausing or other top business people say that it is considered inadequate and that there is no focus on energy efficiency improvements in buildings in the government's climate project, the Minister's answer to that is that it is handled. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134438	It is that in the context of the energy agreement we have set aside these two pools. Clearly, along the way, we also need to look at what needs to be done in order to meet the requirements of the European Union in relation to energy efficiency and energy savings. This is, of course, not the last thing we do in this area, but in relation to the current management, it is handled in the context of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134458	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134500	Okay, so you shouldn't expect anything from the business community. I would like to move on to some of the things that the government has taken a great deal of interest in its climate initiative, namely transport. For example, it says: Here something big about buses: In the cities the buses must be pollution-free, one might say, by 2030. This is a good idea, but is there a difference between that and the objective that Movia has, which is Denmark's largest transport company, which is owned by 45 municipalities and 2 regions, and which already decided in 2017 that by 2030 the bus operation should be pollution-free. So does the government add something here, or do you write in goals that already exist out there with the big transport companies? It's fine if that's what you do, but then you might have to be honest about not turning up the pace, but just copying what good forces out in society do already.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134558	I am very, very pleased when Movia and others are also on this agenda. A very significant target has been set, namely that by 2030 it is CO2 I actually think it is a very, very ambitious goal to set there, and it is not the case that we are just saying 2030. We have, in fact, set a number of points on how far we should have gone in relation to the fact that it is buses that are as environmentally friendly as possible. It's good for CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134636	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and Mr. Jens Joel for today's work. That was the end of Question 10. Then we are lucky enough to go back to question 8, where there is now full staffing of both questions and answers, namely the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134645	Then we are lucky enough to go back to question 8, where there is now full staffing of both questions and answers, namely the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Welcome and go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134659	I read out the question: is it the Government's position to abolish the economic watchdog, the Economic Council, as proposed by the Minister for Fisheries, Gender and Nordic Cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134710	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134715	Thank you for a very clear answer, which I should not hide from, I am extremely pleased with. Can the Minister understand that there may be people who have some concern and assume a certain concern to me when there is a minister in a government who reports such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134736	No, because I can reassure you that as a minister responsible for the Economic Council, I have never been involved in any discussion on this subject. By the way, the Economic Council is not just something that it is nice to have. Actually, it's something we need. It follows from the financial pact that Denmark signed back in 2012. Moreover, it must be said that since the early 1960s the Economic Council has had a very good function in terms of giving impetus to the economic debate in Denmark. I very much appreciate that, and I assume the questioner does.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134814	I can confirm that to the Minister. I very much appreciate the Economic Council, which is also called the wise men on a daily basis, and I fully share the analysis that the Minister has, namely that if we did not have it, we should set it up, because that is what we are obliged to do, that is to say, to have an institution of that nature. In this context, it must be said that I am satisfied that it is the current minister who is the minister responsible and not another representative who has a different opinion from that expressed by the Minister on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134852	Well, it is hard to thank the questioner for his fine words, that is to say, that there is pleasure in the way in which I manage my responsibilities in this matter. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134903	Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and thank you to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht for today's work. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, and then we can skip two issues that we have now implemented. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11 to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. The questioner is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134926	Mrs Eva Flyvholm will now read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134930	Thank you. Does the Minister of Transport think that it is good for mobility in Denmark that bus routes and local routes are closed and cut down due to the business support reform that the government and the Danish People's Party have made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010134948	Thank you for the question. I understand that any consideration by the regions of closing or reducing the operation of selected bus routes and local and local routes can be seen as frustrating for the citizens affected. Now it is the case that the vast majority of public bus and local passenger traffic in Denmark is handled by the regional transport companies in cooperation with the owners of the companies. This is the case today before the reform of business promotion, and it will be the same after the reform comes into force on 1 January 2019. The regions finance the purchase of public transport from their resources for regional development. Regional development funds are also used, in addition to the purchase of regional public transport, to finance regional priorities such as: the nature and environment, employment, education and culture, and the development of the outermost regions and rural areas. The regions are free to give priority to development funds between these areas. Basically, I think it is a good thing that we have local and regional self-determination in order to give priority to the main tasks that we now have at regional level. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has wanted to simplify the business promotion system from January 2019, which has resulted in a reform that reduces the number of administrative levels of business promotion from three to two, where the two levels are state and municipal. This is good for companies that no longer have to bother with three public entrances if they want advice or support to run their business. Thus, the reform means that the regions have to do fewer tasks than they had to do in the past. When the regions no longer have a job to do, they no longer have to receive funding for it. I note that, following the reform, the regions will continue to receive 2.5 billion in the region. kr. from the state and municipalities to prioritize regional development, including public transport. The challenge for some regions may be if regionally more of the regional development funds have been used for public transport compared with the other areas which the funds also have to cover. If that is the case, I am confident that the regions will take on the task and give priority to the tasks of regional development, where there will therefore remain approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. to prioritise on the basis of. If the questioner wishes to know more about the reform itself and how it is implemented in relation to the regions, I would refer to my colleague, the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135217	The problem is precisely that, for example. in Region Sjælland we have spent a great many of the funds on transport, because it is a very large geographical area. I think that is wise enough, that is to say that priority has been given to people getting around by bus and train. With this reform, which has been made in haste at a desk, we can only see that a region like Zealand is hit hard at the fact that there is simply not enough money left to run the buses. It is nine bus routes in the Region of Zealand that are currently being closed down. And it hits so many citizens. I would like to hear from the Minister for Transport, if we could not jointly see whether there is either something that has gone a little too fast here, and then there is something that we should see whether we can find some funds for and bring them back. I guess it can't be the intention that it's the buses that are going to be hit by this business promotion reform, or whether the government and the Danish People's Party simply went into this with open eyes and said: OK, we know that it will mean the slaughter of some bus routes. However, I do not think that this is because the government is at the same time talking about how the whole country should be able to hang together, because it does not do so if you cannot get around.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135321	Region Sjælland is no worse off than other regions. You get some money for regional development. Some of these funds have been directed towards the creation of business promotion. That means you're not getting that money anymore. In the region of Sjælland, the funds have apparently not been spent on business promotion, but on public transport, and it is now felt that priority should be given to public transport, because not all the money allocated to it has been spent on business promotion. These are local decisions, and it is not the case that one region is hit harder than other regions. All regions are no longer required to carry out business promotion tasks. Instead, they are located with the municipalities and with the state. And then the regions will no longer receive money for the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135408	I agree that different priorities can be given to each region. I have also criticized the fact that the Region of Zealand wants to cut down the buses. But it is still a fact that right now, as the situation is, it is particularly hard hitting the Region of Zealand, because an unusually large number of these funds have been spent on public transport, because it has been necessary to do so. It is a very large area, it covers the whole of Zealand, Lolland and Falster. There is no point in sitting here at a desk saying that it is up to the regions to find out. 'Cause they don't have that money. And I think we have a joint responsibility, including here in the Folketing, to look at it. I would really like to hear a statement from the Minister for Transport about this: if this hits some regions awkwardly, can we not help to see how we can save our local bus traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135451	I have no idea at all that this is going to hit the regions at a disadvantage. On the contrary, it affects the regions in the same way, namely that when they no longer have to promote business, they do not receive any money for business promotion either. It is a misrepresentation of Mrs Eva Flyvholm to say that one region is being damaged and affected more. There is a region which has made some decisions on the basis of the money it had in the past, and now some decisions are being made that that money should be spent in other ways. The region is free to give priority to public transport, but it has apparently chosen to spend the money on other aspects of regional development funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135533	It is a fact that the money that is disappearing from the system now, among other things. Away from public transport. I do not think it is satisfactory that the Minister for Transport can simply stand by and see that local buses are shut down on that basis. And it hits me wrong. There has been massive criticism of the implementation of this business support reform that it has just been made as such an estimate and that no thought has been given to what the individual regions actually spend on money. Could we not say that if I can make it clear that this is actually going to be awkward, because some regions need more money for their buses, then can we give it another round and see if we can solve that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135609	The funds we are dealing with here will be allocated to the regions on the basis of some figures on population composition and so on. It is not the case that any regions receive more money, given their population composition than other regions do. That is why it is wrong to say that if one region cuts down on public transport, it is because it is particularly hard hit. It doesn't. It is affected in the same way as everyone else, namely that when it no longer has to promote business, it should not have any money for it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135641	Thank you to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and thank you to Mrs Flyvholm for today's work. Then we move on to question 12. This is for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the questioner is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135657	Thank you. Prior to the opening of the Parliament outside the Castle Church, the Minister was asked by a citizen whether we should not this year focus on the animals in agriculture and the 9 million pig eagles as well as 31⁄2 million roosters who die every year and end up as waste products for the first days of their lives due to the intensive form of production, and the minister has subsequently written on his facebook profile that the answer • I love bacon was a little too bold and stupid and was not the answer to the question. Can the Minister answer what the Minister thinks would be a better answer to the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135743	I can at least begin by stating that among so many things to cook on there seems to be such a common consensus among typically those people who do not enjoy this delicacy, that bacon is however the best. The questioner's representation of the question that I was confronted with outside the Palace Church does not really correspond to what was actually said. The reproduction of my answer is not correct either. But let it go. It might be that the questioner should go to church a little more often, at least to the opening of the Folketing. As I have also said before, and as the questioner himself also mentions, I probably answered a little too boldly. It may happen that I cannot express myself in words, how much I love bacon. When I was asked if I meant it, I said I love bacon. That is the truth, and I think politicians should be telling the truth. My answer to the question must be seen in the light of the circumstances under which it was asked. An adequate answer to the question and an answer that would live up to my own ambitions for a better public debate would be that the prerequisite for eating meat is, of course, that animals are treated properly and in accordance with animal welfare rules and that farming is carried out in a way that shows respect for the environment. I have to say that a view of life based on the fact that man should completely refrain from using animals for food, clothing and, moreover, also condemning people who do not share this view is not a view of life that I share. I don't see the world that way. I'm not a vegan myself either. I have no problem with some people choosing to eat meat. I have no problem with some people choosing not to eat meat. That's what you have to design as you like. People have to eat what they want, and I don't want to interfere with whether people are vegans or if they're something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010135944	Now the Minister said that animals must be treated properly and it is clear that there is no bill on animal welfare in the government's legislative catalogue. We therefore have a conventional and industrial food production in Danish agriculture, which is characterised by very large animal husbandry, and I think there is good reason to have a criticism of animal welfare. We have a pig production where 24,000 piglets die every day. That's 9 million a year. 97% Of the pigs, the tail gets cut off. It's 98 percent. by the male pigs being castrated. Patty pigs are weaning too early, and this leads to diarrhea, and then they become addicted to penicillin and zinc in order to survive. Total production means that there are 9 million piglets sent out to Europe on long animal transports. We have a chicken chicken production where the chickens can barely stand on their feet just before slaughter. And we have dairy cows that do not go to grass in their entire lives and are pressed hard to get a calf a year and that are pushed even harder to give the most milk possible. I think there is good reason to discuss animal welfare and there is a need for animal welfare to be improved. I believe that there will be more and more people who are critical of what is going on in the stables in Danish agriculture and want animal welfare higher up on the political agenda. The Minister for Agriculture and Food may as well learn to live with this, because there will be an increased interest in how we produce food. That debate can take place in many places and must take place in many places, and that is, regardless of the fact that the Minister then chooses that the fight takes place on a church staircase. The fact that there is no animal welfare in the government's legislative catalogue is, I think, disgraceful. Because when the Minister says that animals must be treated properly and when you look at what is going on out there, I think there is reason for tightening up. Therefore, I cannot understand that there is nothing about animal welfare in the government catalogue, and I think that the young man who thinks that the focus should be on the animals in agriculture had a good point on Parliament's opening day.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140150	Well, I kind of share that view. That is why I replied, as I did, afterwards on my facebook profile to say that this is an important debate. If sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen attended the opening service, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen himself has experienced that the pointer you are running from this house to that house is primarily made up of people who are crying out for you and telling you that Bilderberg is running the world and that you are a bad person and everything is terrible. Then this poor young man comes in at the end and is the one who really asks a relevant question. That is why I say afterwards that it was perhaps a little too bold, a little too stupid an answer that did not relate to the question itself. For animal welfare is important. And it's not just something I live with; it's something I live in, and it's something I live for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140241	When there is this important debate on animal welfare, I am surprised that there is absolutely nothing in the government's legislative catalogue that will increase animal welfare. One could, for example: I would like to know whether it would not be reasonable for cows to be put on grass for a certain part of the summer season. I think there are plenty of opportunities to be inspired by the ecology which, as such, has better rules than traditional conventional farming. Can the Minister not see that legislative initiatives are lacking in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140313	Fortunately, the legislation is not the only way to promote a case. I know that we may be looking at this differently according to political observation. In my optics, that is not the only tool we have in here. The reduction of pig mortality, which the rapporteur also mentioned earlier, is an important priority. That is why we have also set up a group of experts consisting of researchers, veterinarians and advisors who know something about these things, rather than those like us who really just like these things. I'm going to listen to that advice. I think we, as politicians, should listen to that. We must strengthen animal welfare, but we must not tolerate the fact that a picture is being painted that the animals feel terrible in Danish agriculture, because that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140404	It is good that an initiative has been set in motion to reduce pig mortality, which amounts to 9 million pigs a year. You don't have to be an expert to see that it's a problem, because when the sow gets more pigs than it has tits, it's hard to make sure there's milk for everyone in that litter. I believe that the breeding work that has been done in Denmark has gone far too far. This is an example of the need to focus more on animal welfare. And legislation may be necessary when agriculture is under pressure on the economy. Then it's necessary. And if you look at where we have tightened up animal welfare, something has happened over the last ten years. There is reason to focus on it. That's why I thought it was good that the young man at the church focused on animal welfare. It may be that I have to go crazy with the minister next year, but I refuse to go into the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140451	Tolerance and intolerance are found in many forms. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is welcome to accompany me next year, and I am very happy to take the debate on animal welfare. I like to take it here, and I like to take it outside Christiansborg's safe walls, but I don't take it when people yell at me on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140512	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13, which is also for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the questioner is Mr. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140525	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that savings can be made in the Agriculture Agency without agriculture experiencing a deterioration in the level of service?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140538	Thank you for the question. It's nice to be back in the serious world again. The Danish Agriculture Authority has launched a number of targeted efficiency improvements. Specifically, it is being implemented, among other things. projects that increase the level of automation in grant schemes optimise the quality assurance processes of the Board, increase the use of technology in control and outsource IT tasks where this makes sense. All these efficiency measures have been thoroughly analysed, and they must ensure that the Danish Agricultural Authority can maintain its production even with a lower grant in the coming years. For some of the efficiency measures, they not only reduce administrative costs, but also improve the quality of the agency's services to Danish agriculture in particular. This applies, inter alia, to: in the long term for the processing times of the ecological area grant to be reduced by increasing automation of the processing process. This will mean a faster payment of subsidies to the individual farmer, thereby improving the level of service quite specifically. So yes, I expect the Danish Agriculture Agency to be able to implement its efficiency programme without damaging the level of service in relation to Danish agriculture. In the longer term, I expect that the service of the Board can be increased in several areas. In the short term, I am aware that, when large-scale efficiency is achieved, risks are involved and challenges may arise in limited areas for a shorter period of time. That is why my ministry is closely following the situation in the Danish Agricultural Authority, so that a strong focus is maintained on the quality of agricultural services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140729	Thank you for that and thank you for a clear answer that Danish agriculture will experience service degradation. That is what the Minister concludes by stating. I think that is a little doubtful. Because we talk to agriculture both in the Social Democratic Party, but also still away, I assume, in the Left, and agriculture tells us that for several years we have seen that in a number of areas the Agriculture Authority has had problems and has problems with the handling of cases. And that is among other things. the payment of the subsidies referred to by the Minister. There is something in the area of environmental technology and on the modernisation scheme, where you have several years old cases, and yet the government chooses to go in with a rather massive saving on exactly the Agriculture Authority. I think I've read somewhere that it's 18% that smokes pretty fast with this, and I'm just a little surprised that in a situation where you already have problems with processing time, you're willing to cut so massively. So, of course, I would like to ask the Minister if he can put some words on how short the short period of the lower level of service can be. So how quickly can we get to where we get to a good and better service level, as the Minister today in the Folketing promises there will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140855	We got far around, there were many directions in which the question could go. It was about when I bet these things are in place. All the efficiency measures we expect are in place in 2022 for the last of them. But that does not mean that we have to wait until 2022 to reap the benefits. My expectation is that in the coming years we will see reductions in processing times, because, as Mr. Simon Kollerup also says that this is really something that matters. This means that you can quickly obtain the money you are entitled to and which is necessary for the continuation of the farm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010140934	It means something when, as a government, you cut back, there is no doubt about that at all. As I have been informed, the final figure has been raised this morning and 71 employees must now stop, some voluntarily, others have been fired. Does the Minister have a message today to the employees who are now losing their jobs, either voluntarily or with a firing note, because of the savings the Minister has chosen to make at this critical time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141008	In other words, the Danish Agriculture Authority is making its entire organisation more efficient, and it is never pleasant to them that it affects. I am not going to start taking a stand on the individual people, but just say that this is something that we must take care of as well as we possibly can. Because I totally understand what it means to lose your job. But we therefore have an obligation to run an organisation as efficiently as possible and to ensure that we get the support that is to be paid out but also that we run the business in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141052	I think we could have dealt with those people who are without a job and who have been given the hard message today. But then let me try to ask you about another potentially derived consequence of these layoffs. When we look at the fisheries sector, which also deals with subsidies and subsidies, there is probably, as we can read in the media, a massive criticism of exactly the control of these payments. Can the Minister guarantee that, with the savings now being made on the Agriculture Agency, there will be no relaxation of controls in connection with the payment of subsidies under the Agriculture Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141133	I am very fond of questions that start with whether the Minister can guarantee, because there you always know what the answer is. I can guarantee that water is wet and that the sun will rise tomorrow, and I think it's about over. The aim of these improvements is to ensure that farmers who have to receive their aid receive it on time and that we have a more efficient procedure. Well, that's what this is all about. It is not the case that a government sits down in gluttonous evil and says: How can we deliver this service worse? On the contrary. That is not the point on which the questioner bases his question, I assume. So this is about ensuring that we deliver a satisfactory service and that we do so on a basis that is as reasonable as possible for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141222	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Simon Kollerup for today's work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181010141231	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 October 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
