ParlaMint-DK_20180302100019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Rasmu Nordqvist (ALT) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of authorizations for the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on local referenda on art in public spaces and the reorganization of the system of honour). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180302100052	The debate is open. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302100111	This is not the first time that Enhedslisten has proposed to abolish the rate pool, so today's debate gives me the opportunity to repeat some of the arguments for the rate pool that have also been put forward by previous governments of changing colors. The rate pool has its origins in the early 1990s and since then has had broad political support in the parties of the Folketing. Today all parties in the Folketing are behind the settlement on the rate pool, apart from Enhedslisten. Over the years, the government and a broad majority in the Folketing have given priority to a wide range of ambitious and effective measures aimed at improving the conditions for beneficiaries of transfer income and for weak groups. I would just like to mention a few examples from last year's rate pool: the government and the parties to the agreement have prioritised over 325 million. kr. Over the next four years, efforts in the area of the elderly are being made. It is intended to strengthen rehabilitation efforts for the weakest elderly; to give special support to lonely elderly people; and to an attempt to provide better transport opportunities for dementia sufferers for visits to friends or cultural services. At the same time, the government and the parties to the agreement have prioritised more than 1 billion. kr. In the social field over the next four years, these are resources which, among other things, include: It is intended to combat homelessness, to promote new, targeted interventions for children and young people with disabilities and to strengthen the family care area, which aims to improve the conditions for children placed in care. All in all, I think there are many good examples of important and effective efforts that can be seen when looking back on previous years' wage-pool agreements. This is due not least to the fact that the entire Danish Parliament, yes, the whole Danish Parliament, apart from Enhedslisten, has come together to agree to give priority to extra aid to beneficiaries of transfer income and to weak groups. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten has pointed out that it is they who have the least, for example. National pensionists and unemployed people who pay for the effort in the rate pool. In fact, that is not an interpretation I agree with. The money that a broad majority of the parliamentary parties give priority to comes from the taxpayers. It is therefore the working Dane who pays for the fact that each year we can prioritise a special effort for weak groups in the rate pool, and it is the working Danes who pay each year for the annual adjustment of transfer income by a rate-regulation rate reflecting wage developments in the labour market. This means, of course, that transfer income recipients and weak groups will actually have a share in the annual increase in prosperity. So when Enhedslisten highlights that a single folk pensionist would get more money between his hands, if the folk pension was not deducted from the rate adjustment rate, it is a truth with modifications. The fact is that the basic amount and the additional amount of the pension have increased considerably more than the cost of living since the entry into force of the rate regulation. This means that the purchasing power of the national pension has increased. So it is easier to fill a shopping cart for a folk pension today than it was when the rate pool was created. I think that is a very central point when discussing welfare. The current system of rate regulation and a pool of rates thus provides a fundamental guarantee for increasing transfer incomes and at the same time ensures that substantial funds can be allocated each year to the weakest citizens of society. I would like to return briefly to my previous message that there are many good, important examples and effective efforts that have been prioritised in relation to the rate pool over the past many years. The motion for a resolution proposes the creation of a social development and innovation pool. To this I would like to point out that the government and the other parties in the Folketing have already taken the initiative to make efforts with a similar aim. For example: with the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement, 50 million has been allocated. kr. to the Social Investment Fund, as well as to the 2017 agreement, nearly 250 million were allocated. kr. over four years for a development and investment programme to promote and strengthen social mobility. I can therefore understand the intention behind the part of Enhedslisten's idea which lies in strengthening social development and innovation. The difference between the government and the Enhedslisten is that we are not simply tabling a resolution. We are already in the working clothes, and we have negotiated a strong effort home, which all the other parties of the Danish Parliament can see themselves in an effort that actually benefits the Danes. But praise to the Enhedslisten for the ambition to create more development and innovation in the social effort, which is an effort that the government itself has also prioritised. Where, for my part, the chain jumps off, on the other hand, is where Enhedslisten begins to point out where the money is to come from, and here the Enhedslisten points to the reintroduction of the soft drinks tax. So not only is Enhedslisten's heart beating for the socially vulnerable, it is also beating for the German border trade. Because we know that a high tax on, for example. soft drinks do not contribute much more than send more Danes a trip across the border with a shopping cart that they fill up. We know that because the tax on a product such as soft drinks tends to turn the heavy end down, because it is the citizens who earn the least who feel the most when the goods in the shopping basket suddenly get heavier. I can then note that the government, unlike the Enhedslisten in general, has an ambition that it should be cheaper to be a Dane. That is why the government has introduced a tax freeze to ensure that citizens do not have to deliver an even greater proportion of their income to the state. To conclude, I would like to say something about what Enhedslisten writes in the comments about the distribution of the rate pool funds, namely that the distribution takes place in the event of a totally unacceptable closure. I simply do not see where Enhedslisten has got that view. On the contrary, I would say that the payment of the rate pool is a very open and inclusive process. Prior to the 2018 stake pool negotiations, the government presented its priorities to public view at the government.dk. The negotiations themselves took place with the involvement of all parties in the Folketing other than the Enhedslisten, and at the negotiating meetings a large number of the rapporteurs from all the negotiating parties, be it the finance rapporteurs, the social rapporteurs, the employment rapporteurs, the health rapporteurs, etc. In addition, the negotiations themselves took place in a consensus approach. This means that we are endeavouring to find as many projects as possible which have the widest possible support. It is quite unique, in fact, that we have a system in which, despite the political differences we have, almost all parties begin to solve some of the important problems of society and do so in agreement. Once the agreement has been concluded, it will be published in its entirety with a detailed description and clarification of the specific content of the initiatives. I simply do not understand why such a process should be intolerable, just as I do not understand the wish of the Enhedslisten to take account of the German border merchants. But that's how we're so different. Therefore, I would just like to conclude by saying that the government cannot support the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302100835	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Finance and go further in the negotiations to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302100845	Now that you've changed the party, this is one of the really funny suggestions to have to talk about. As finance rapporteur for the Enhedslisten for 7 years, I stood and harceled against the rate pool. However, this also gives an opportunity to explain why I do not believe that we can support the Enhedslisten's proposal. It has to be said that the Social Democratic Party has a Congress decision to abolish the rate pool, and we have reported on several occasions that we want to abolish it. If the Social Democrats do not believe that a resolution can be tabled, then it is really about exactly the movement that the Minister of Finance is talking about, namely that we have started to change the way we use the funds. But let's just go back to the story of the bet pool. Because I think it's important. I've had this debate with mr. Mogens Lykketoft incredibly many times over the years we have been sitting here together, and I really think that his main argument, which bites me a lot, is to understand that the rate pool when it was introduced was a social improvement. And Mogens can say that so indignantly when I sometimes become very critical of the bet pool. For what happened at the time of the introduction of the rate pool was that there was a series of transfer income that did not follow the price and wage projections at all. This means that every year a huge slice of transfer income was taken, which was simply less money to buy for, one might say. What then happened when you made the bet pool was that they said that it just didn't work. Well, there were some transfer incomes that were regulated with zero comma zero dut percent, and then there were others who had slightly higher rates. Then you made a decision to say it's no good. They need to follow the general development of the economy more closely, and then they simply gave more money to transfer incomes year by year. Then you let a small slice • that's the 0.3 percent that today is the wager pool • be for social bets. And that's one of them. What I did when I was rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has stood up here and hasceledated against because, as it were, transfer income is eroded against wages and the general increase in prosperity in society in general. There you can say somewhere that these are typically two different positions on the part of the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats, namely: will you be involved in the one social progress for which you can obtain a majority, or will you not? And there I just have to say that I am standing in a place where I can see that the world is moving in such a way that if you can make social progress, you have to say yes to it. Because you're never gonna get the offer again. I would also like to say that some of what I actually think is quite clever and which requires a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is, of course, that the rate pool fences the money in. In other words, even when there is a blue majority, the blue parties cannot choose to use this money, that is to say that regulation, for example. to make tax cuts. Then, because of the settlement process, people are forced to spend the money on transfer income so that they do not have their finances eroded more than is the case today and on the social stakes that are over in the pool of rates. I would very much like that enclosure, in other words, in relation to the bourgeois parties. And that is actually why, when I look at the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, I see it as such that it should not be supported by the Social Democrats. On the other hand, this does not mean that I do not believe that the rate pool should be wound up. And it is simply a matter of the fact that the way we conduct social policy, and have done so on the back of the pool, has become the character of knobfire. It was never intended when the bet pool was created, i.e. it would be such a mare from tue to tue. On the contrary, the intention was, in fact, to find more money for the social area. You got it, but it's been starting projects, running them for 3 years, having good experience with them and closing them again. It is simply not working, and I believe that over the last few years, just as the Minister of Finance says, we have begun to find a much better form. In other words, we are setting aside large amounts of money for large-scale social investment programmes, which can run over a long period of time and in a completely different way from what I saw when I started as rapporteur in this area and sat in the circle. It was the case that we were sitting from one project to another and opening and closing. We must remember that social work is carried by relationships. So it is no use opening up a bedroom, people are attached to the staff in the bedroom, and three years later you close it again, all those relationships are lost, and then you can start over in the social effort. It's just not gonna work. So the Social Democratic movement is very happy and we are very happy that we have just been able to find it in the broad cooperation across the parties of the Folketing that we have. I would also like to say that exactly the idea of a social investment fund is something that we have been very concerned about in the Social Democracy, and we are very pleased that it has been opened up with the agreement we have made for 2018. And when we are, it is because we see an opportunity to start up and set in motion some extremely large social investment programmes, which have both the long aim that has been lacking, because the rate pool has been such a thing from tue to tue policy, but also allows some others to go in and invest in the social area in a way that we can get more money going. So, overall, I would like to say that this resolution cannot be supported by the Social Democrats, and so it is very much about the fact that if you want to dismantle the rate pool and the way you have conducted social policy, it is simply not the right method. This is no good in the way proposed in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101355	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101358	I can sometimes get the feeling that even on the day I'm out of Parliament, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil will still stand on the platform and talk about Enhedslisten, as if she is the expert. It is about to be a few years ago, and there are a few years before I too should no longer be in the Enhedslisten - or at least in the Folketing, yes, the Folketing, don't worry. I'm not going to the same trip. The Minister for Finance says that there is broad support for the rate pool, and Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil also mentions herself, as I remember, too, that the Social Democracy has a congress decision to be against the rate pool. I just want to ask such a low-practical question, because the last thing that is said is that if you have to abolish the rate pool or settle the rate pool, it shouldn't be like this... how is it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101502	After all, it is an incredibly nice question to get exactly the year in which an agreement has been reached on the social investment fund. In our best opinion, it must be the case that we pass from having these séances, where we allocate small amounts to projects which then last for three years, after which most of them will be settled in again, and to having the social investment fund that is being set up, indeed, while we are sitting in this Chamber, because that is exactly what they are working on at the moment in the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the broad agreement that was made about it. In our best opinion, which we have also announced to the public in several rounds, there must be three tracks in the rate pool. There must be an operating track, that is, many more of the things we know, for example. Mother's help. In other words, there has been a need for Mother's Help for 100 years, and there will probably be in the future too, so why should Mother's Help seek at regular intervals? Neither should they, because we need operational tracks. Then we'll have a development trail. That is what lies in what I call the small sugar bowl within the social investment fund, and it is over in the Ministry of Finance now. Then there has to be what is called the big social investment programmes, and that is what is the big sugar bowl, that is, the big investment fund, which is under the Ministry of Finance. To the best of our knowledge, this is the move that needs to be made in order to unleash this gamble pool system from the knobbing that's been going on in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101612	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101614	Then we can also conclude that there is not broad support for the rate pool, as the Minister of Finance says there is, because there is indeed, when you start counting, a majority in here who, for all sorts of different reasons and with all sorts of other alternative models, says that you do not want the rate pool as we know it today. I just want to end with an invitation to the Social Democratic Party, because we're constantly trying to find out how we're doing this so we can get you guys out of here. Shouldn't we sit down and find that majority to do something else and get rid of this bet pool, or is it okay with that little move you've made? Is this where the Social Democrats stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101700	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101701	So, the only ones who aren't currently involved in winding down the bet pool are the Enhedslisten, for Enhedslisten is the only party that isn't involved in making the movement we're doing. So it is wrong to say that there are all kinds of mandates around the government or something like that. The Left and the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative and the SF and the Social Democrats and Radicals are helping to dismantle the movement pool as we know it. In fact, I'm going to do the invitation in reverse. Maybe Enhedslisten should get into the circle, because that's kind of where it's going. This does not happen by making random motions in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101735	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302101748	Then we again have a motion for a resolution on the rate pool. This is not the first time we have seen it, and it is, in fact, positive enough. But I would say that what is interesting here on a Friday morning is that the Social Democrats say very clearly that they do not really want this anymore. And it is quite right, as the Enhedslisten says, that you can count a little on your fingers, because it is actually the Folketing that decides. There are, of course, conciliation circles and so on. etc., but if the Folketing wants something, it is actually the Folketing that decides. So I think that the announcement which very briefly came from the platform of the Social Democrats that we do not want the pool of rates that we know today. At least that opens up something, because I can count to 97, and that is a very large majority in the Parliamentary Assembly to do something else. Then it is also true, as the Social Democrats have said, that if you do not want to overthrow everything and build up again, it is of course in the conciliation circle that you have to work towards it here. After all, the Minister of Finance also explained very well what new ideas lie in the pool of rates, that is to say how you work in the pool to make the money more, how we can do more social work for the same money, and that is a thought set with which we in the Danish People's Party are very much in agreement. In short, I would like to say that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti have crossed blades several times, but perhaps not so hard in relation to this agenda, because of course there are some things we agree on. The Danish People's Party has even been out of the pitch pool to begin with, and there was also one time we were out, but then we came back in. Then why did we do it? It is a matter of sitting at the table, because you can have clean hands when you sit outside and look in and say that what the others are doing is wrong, but you can also sit at the table and say that when it is as it is, we will also help to create the good social projects that happen with the pool. However, I would like to say that I would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten for having put it here for debate today in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I would also like to congratulate the Social Democratic Party for having reported completely squarely from the parliamentary platform today that the model we know about today's rate pool does not want to move forward. We want to take that up, and we would also like to discuss it with Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) outside the conciliation group, because there is, in fact, a significant majority in the Folketing who says that you want to look at something else. So I think it has been rewarding to hear, especially what the Social Democratic Party has said, because the Folketing is still away from legislative power. It is the Folketing that can change things, and as I hear it, there are 97 mandates to change this, and you have to measure that. You don't have to be measured by what you say, but you have to be measured by what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102041	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102044	Thank you. By the way, I very much agree with the latter. I would also go so far as to say that I agree that you can have a separate analysis of whether or not you should sit in a conciliation circle. In the Enhedslisten it is very important for us that, when you sit in a conciliation circle, you can also vouch for the funding of what you do. So we're not just gonna sit around and hand out money and pretend we don't know where they come from. In the end, however, it is also possible to change a conciliation if you can agree, and I count the same 97 mandates. I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is for the same reasons as in the Enhedslisten that one does not like the rate pool, i.e. both the construction with the distribution of pools and opaqueness and short-term projects, but also where the money comes from, i.e. the funding. Is that also the problem for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102143	It's more complex than that. Of course there is the financing part, and we agree with that. There are some challenges to it. But the National Audit Office has also just made a report on the rate pool, which has evaluated the use of this lot of money. We must therefore remember that we are talking about over 14 billion. kr. that drives around inside this wheel. It turns out that many innovative projects have been put in the lake because it was thought that this is where you should become wiser. And we need a pool like that. In a society such as ours, we must also dare to lose some money and then say that it did not work and that is why we are stopping it. Or: It works very well, we would like to continue working on that. But then there is no point in the fact that the evaluation processes have actually been quite poor. Fortunately, that has been corrected. We do not want to have these application pools at all. We also want Parliament to be able to take on board projects which we would like to set in motion, where the municipalities may be a little on their hands. So the fact that we are fighting the movement pool is not an expression of the Danish People's Party's wish to stop the development of social policy. That is more the way it is done and, of course, the way it is financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102250	Mrs Pernille Skip wishes to speak? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102251	I am so very much in agreement that there must be an opportunity for development, there must be a pool of development. That is also part of the resolution on behalf of the Enhedslisten which we are debating today. It has to be so that we can just send out money and say that we are taking a chance to see if we can develop something new. So we have taken that into account in this motion for a resolution as well. What I might be looking for a little more is: where exactly are we disagreeing? Is it only in the assessment of being inside or outside the conciliation circle, or is it also in substance? Because if we agree on the content, we can start doing what is working together to make this change right, even if we disagree on whether to be inside or outside the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102334	As a starting point, when you are part of conciliation, you are at the goal of it, and of course you are working to make the changes within the conciliation process. But what it has just given me and the Danish People's Party today is that the mandate that we can use in the conciliation circle has, of course, become significantly stronger by the fact that the Social Democracy has stood here on the floor of the Danish Parliament and quite openly said that the model we have today is not one wish. There is not a majority in the conciliation circle, but there is, after all, a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly which agrees with the analysis which the Social Democrats have made today and which the Danish People's Party has also expressed. We will take advantage of that. That is why I would just like to thank you for having made the Social Democrat Party say so squarely and clearly today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102413	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102422	Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising the debate and discussions on the future of the venture pools. The position of the Enhedslisten and its position on the pool of rates is well known, which is why the party is not represented when we are conducting the pool of rates negotiations, but on occasion they can be involved in the negotiations, even though there is funding for the pool of rates in what we are working with, most recently here in the divorce negotiations. There has been little in the debate an approach that says: is there at all a majority in the Folketing for having bet pools? What do the parties mean, and what about the financing of it and its principles? This leads me right at the start to repeat what actually happened when the stake pool agreement for 2016 was signed in October 2015. It was the then pure Left Government that made an agreement with all the parties prior to the Rate Pool Agreement minus Enhedslisten, which states that the parties fully subscribe to the principles of the rate regulation, the creation, use, coinage and administration of the rate pool. The parties further accept that, as a result of the 2012 Tax Agreement, there is a subdued regulation of certain income transfers between 2016 and 2023, and finally: Parties cannot, without terminating the agreement, make or vote in favour of proposals in the Folketing to remove or amend the rate regulation and the subdued regulation in the period 2016 to 2023. For me, this is an emphasis on the broad foundation of working with the rate pool agreement and the way it is financed. Then you can have different approaches to it. A few comments on the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. I think that some of the things that are called for as the intentions in relation to the fund are part of the way we have already worked in recent years. And when I put it that way, I would say that we know that in recent years we have had a better focus on how to get the more general strategic issues and not individual cases. In what I am saying here, perhaps there is also a small recognition that in some of the criticisms from the past there has been something to come for. I am talking about the social investment fund in general, where we see holistic and not small matters, I am talking about stronger social mobility in a development and investment programme, which I myself consider to be two examples of the beginnings of what the Enhedslisten, with their resolution, really wants. In conclusion, I would like to say that my defence of the rate pool system must not be taken as an expression of the fact that we should just carry on without criticism, because we must, of course, constantly be aware of how the system is in relation to the administrative costs of managing the funds. How do we get as much money as possible for the socially vulnerable and not for administration; how do we ensure that there is reliability so that we do not go from project to project, but that we support development projects in order to assess whether these projects might be able to get operating aid if they comply, and that is my third point: what is also the intention, namely that what we support has an effective difference, i.e. that we get evidence of what works and what does not work? I think we can find common ground on this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102837	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102841	I'd like to start by saying to Mr. Carl Holst, that it is quite right when Mr. Carl Holst recognizes some of what is stated in Enhedslisten's proposal as some of what has been set in motion. So it is a mutual praise that it is true that there is an improvement in the way in which the allocation of funds is handled, and we are very pleased about that. Moreover, we also hear praise for this, even if not exultation and enthusiasm, and now everything has been resolved, but the praise of the many people who work and also have a lot of trouble with the rate pool to be allowed to work with people with problems. Sir. After all, Carl Holst reads an important passage about the funding and what one agrees with and does not subscribe to, and the Enhedslisten is often told, perhaps not so often by a Leftman, but from other parties, that we should just sit and distribute the money, but Mr. Carl Holst will agree with me that you can't just sit around and distribute the money without voicing where they come from, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302102951	I agree, which is also why I have not used that expression at any time: you can just be a part of it and distribute it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103004	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103007	Because you can't. You can't just be a part of it and distribute the money. We must also help to find them, and that, as Mr. Carl Holst reads up, is after all a blue stamp on the funding, the original rate regulation, which means that transfer income is regulated less than wage and price developments, and that both cash benefit recipients, but also pensioners, people with disabilities and illness according to the Ministry of Finance itself have less money between their hands than they would otherwise have had if they did not have the rate regulation, but also the top tax relief granted in 2012, as far as I remember, where the money was also taken from the very same people on transfer income, sick, elderly and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103054	Perhaps I saw it more as some points of view made by the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. A single reflection anyway, although it was not a question perhaps. You can also have the approach to the way the rate pool is funded that it helps to ensure that it pays off to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103113	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103123	In this way, I and the Liberal Alliance share the ambition that in the long term funds should be transferred from the rate pool to the Finance Act. We are not in favour of this project regime, which does not manage the finances in the best way possible with regard to social policy. We think it would be better to find out what it is that works, which is then passed on to the Finance Act and ensures a lasting operation of. So we kind of agree with the basic idea of putting down the rate pool and getting a lot more control over how much money we spend in this area and what we spend on. We do not agree that transfer income should increase year by year. It is probably not so surprising that we in the Liberal Alliance also find it so misguided to say that it is the beneficiaries of the transfer income that finance the rate pool because in some theoretical scenario they would have increased more if you had not had this rate pool. After all, the fact that other people receive a higher wage increase does not make you poorer as a beneficiary of a transfer income. It doesn't work that way. So, on that basis, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. However, we think it is quite good that the Enhedslisten is raising the debate, starting the debate; there have also been some interesting announcements in here. And it can easily provide a basis for discussing the rate pool further, i.e. in terms of how it should be forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103308	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103315	Thank you very much. A few years ago, one of the first things that I, as social rapporteur, had to decide was whether the alternative was to be included in the wage-pool settlement, so I had to give a recommendation to the parliamentary group of the Alternative whether we should join the wage-pool settlement. This means that the alternative should also help to distribute billions to both existing and innovative social and preventive activities for vulnerable people in Denmark, but also whether we should be included in an agreement that created pool management to a large extent, where we support four years at a time, which means that we are giving money to projects that are able to establish themselves and create hope in the face of a pressured exposed target group, and then they risk disappearing again because there is no local anchoring in the squeezed municipalities. But it was also really about whether we should agree to an agreement where I really think that too much of the money in the rate pool is spent year by year on things that are not really about the vulnerable. It is not least a pool where you feed the dog to some extent with your own tail, that is, where you take money from those who are on transfer income, or which they could have got in each one there 0.3 per cent. the price and wage projections that were then made, and solves social problems for those who are socially exposed to them. So should I really recommend the Alternative's group to join it? Yes, of course, there was no doubt in my mind. The rate pool simply contains so many well-known problems and acknowledged problems and challenges that we are also hearing from today's platform that I think the only responsible thing was to go in and work together to change it. It would have been the world's easiest case for the alternative to stay outside and hope that the pool of bets and the pool of bets themselves will solve the challenges that there were, but I recommended our group to go into it, pull up the sleeves and cooperate with the other parties to change the pool, and I got support, and we went in, and I am happy about that today. It is often the case that when you go into conciliation, you think that now you can come in and change a lot, but it is not always that easy. But here I think, in relation to the rate pool, it has actually gone beyond expectations, so we've gone far more to support more preventive investment than this pool tyranny, which is such a kind of tue to tue policy. We have started to make several of the projects that really can do something so that they do not have to seek money every four years. We have created a social development model on it so that we can decode what it is for derived savings, it provides when we make initiatives that create well-being and quality of life in the lives of vulnerable people. And then every time we go to the finance minister, when we start the pool negotiations, we also try to ensure that as much money as possible is spent on the socially vulnerable. So we actually believe in many ways that we are on the right path, and left is then the last challenge that Enhedslisten addresses, or not a hundred percent, the last one that still needs to be worked, but at least the big one, and that is that I think we should change the funding so that it does not come from the transfer income. Here I believe that the solution will be the result of one of the initiatives that we have made possible in the pool of rates, namely social investment. Indeed, it is wise to invest in people both in education and in many other areas of society, but also in the social field, and we normally consider people as costs and investments in bricks as investments. However, investment in people should not be seen as expenditure. When investing in creating well-being and quality of life for vulnerable people and achieving a good result, it is not just a good human investment; it is also a good economic investment that provides returns that provide derived savings, savings that you can identify, lift out and reinvest if you like. Now we are lifting the idea of social investment into a completely new perspective with the Social Innovation Fund, which we have given 50 million. kr. It is intended to be a snowball that has to attract really large investments, pension companies, for example, which can make new, large, social billion investments on top of welfare, which can create additional social value and where we can locate the derived savings and also reinvest them, to the extent that we can now do so. So it may be that we can replace the bet pool completely when these investments hopefully come into the billions class, or that if we make minor design changes, we can at least find the half billion that I will agree with Enhedslisten that it is extremely important that we have innovative and innovative social projects in Denmark. So this is the path that I hope the development of the rate pool will take, and that is why I do not support the concrete resolution from the Enhedslisten, but I think it is fine, and I also think that this whole debate gives rise to some sort of status quo and updating to all those who are listening to it in relation to the incredibly important development of the rate pool and social investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103828	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103831	Sir. Torsten Gejl says that the alternative would like to be there to change the pot. I think that Enhedslisten would probably have done the same if it was a bad pool management. Period. But the question is, no, let me put it this way: there is a 0.3% rate regulation. every year, which means that single folk pensioners have 7,716 kr. less between their hands a year than they would otherwise have had, plus the top tax relief, which also less regulates transfer income. What is the alternative to the two forms of regulation? What does the alternative think of that funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302103925	There are some obvious things that have made us go into this because we think we're gonna try to help change it. I think we are on our way very well, and I am not here to come up with any concrete proposals, but at least with visions of how to find the amount of money that is needed. I believe that much of this will be resolved by creating much larger social investment structures which might even make the rate pool superfluous, or at least can ensure that we can have smaller investment pools for innovative projects so that we do not have to take the money from the transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104005	Does Pernille Skippe want the word again? Yeah, she does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104006	Thank you. I just find it hard to understand why you sign it as late as 2015, i.e. you vouch for that funding. Is there any indication that there are conversations in the pool of rates to change the funding of the rate pool? Have there been talks in the conciliation circle, where there has been a sincere talk that funding will be changed? Because it does not sound to the other rapporteurs as if that were the case. It works so that when you go into a settlement, you both stand up for how you spend the money and where it comes from. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104046	Yes, and when you go into the bet pool agreement with the type of funding there is, it's gonna kick your ass. But it's the only place you can change it. If you're not in it, there's nothing you can do. Yes, you can provoke a good debate. But the only way we can get in and try to change those things is simply by going into it. I think it is really exciting that we are starting to have social investment opportunities, whose returns are beginning to rise towards some economic volumes, which means that, at least in the alternative, we have visions that it might in fact be the funding we need to take it away from transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104131	Then it's Mrs. Lindahl Laura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104133	Thank you. I am actually really surprised that the alternative is so in relation to the rate pool, because I often hear the alternative speak against, for example. pool management and this about how much bureaucracy is involved with it. And it is quite absurdly a lot of bureaucracy associated with the rates pools. Some programmes are being developed, and a lot of time is being spent in the municipalities sitting and decoding what it takes to get this money: try to seek and get rejected, apply again next year, maybe get awarded something, should correct what you have done. It is absurd for many hours spent in this way instead of meaningful social policy measures. So I cannot understand why precisely the alternative does not want to be involved in this, because this is not really about investing in social policy, it is about investing in people. We all agree that it makes a difference and that it makes a difference. But why do we want to use a means such as the pool of rates, which generates so much bureaucracy everywhere in our society, instead of learning more about what works and then putting what works on the budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104245	Well, I think it's deadly to put this on the finance bill. If we put this on the Finance Act, it could at least require a red majority for the rest of my life to make sure that this money will continue to be spent on social challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104301	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104302	Okay, but that was a fair enough answer. But do not also impress the rapporteur that it is the case that when you talk to some of the organisations, who think it is also difficult to navigate in this area, it is for example. They say, "How can we use this?" We do not have the resources to create programs and understand what it is that the rate pool can offer and how we can become a part of it. That is why they are simply overlooked in it, and it would be possible to accommodate them if you could look at the things that they do and that work. And then, like a bourgeois government, you could put them on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104343	Then the rapporteur has not listened properly to my speech, or I have simply not made myself clear. One of the best things I think we've done is to get rid of some of that pool tyranny. That is to make greater social investment, which we then also beat some nails in. I simply think that this is one of the best things we have done. Another thing that I'm also glad we're starting to do is to persevere several things that have turned out to work so you don't have to do from tue to tue-hopping. So I actually agree very much with the rapporteur on those ambitions, but we may have a little different ways of solving it, but we have to talk about that, because the objective is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104421	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104429	Thank you. I would like to sign to the Enhedslisten to raise the debate here. Because that gives us an opportunity to discuss in a wider public what it is actually for a development that is in progress in relation to the rate pool, and I will then take this opportunity to do so. I would like to repeat some of what Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil said in her rapporteur's speech, namely that before we got a pool of rates there was no systematic projection of transfers, which some of us sometimes forget. It was so random whether SU was regulated by 0.5%. and the retirement pension with zero comma anything or 1.2%. I don't remember what it was like, but there we then adopted a proper regulation of the transfers via the rate pool, i.e. in fact a price and salary projection. They took 0.3 per cent. of the price and salary projection and put them in the rate pool, and hence the concept of the rate pool. It was an improvement for those citizens who were on transfer income who were transfer recipients at that time. At the same time, we also received systematic funding from the Finance Act for social policy. We have now put this better and better in place in the creation of the Social Innovation Fund, which we adopted last autumn. But there are, of course, funds set aside in the Finance Act for the operation of various tasks. Among other things: I know that there is a small association called the National Association of VæreSteder, which would simply not exist if they did not have operating funds from the rate pool. They are on the Finance Act for a couple of years, and then the rate circle will assess whether they should continue to be, and if they are going to, they will continue, and otherwise they will have to change. However, there are actually some who carry out some quite relevant and necessary tasks in society that come into the Finance Act, via the Rate Pool. What we have then made of new, and which is about to be run in position, I would have liked to say, in other words to be set up with content next autumn, is to set up the Social Innovation Fund, where they are supposed to be able to finance major development projects, preferably on the basis of a small project that has developed some methods for a better social policy, and there I would like to use an example that the Danish Parliament will be working on in the coming weeks, namely the legislation on the social free card. It is, in fact, an experimental project in which we say that there are some people who have such poor conditions in relation to entering the labour market that they should be allowed to have a card, where they are exempt from paying taxes on the very small amounts they can make by walking around helping different companies and businesses, etc., where they can make an effort for a short time and thus become part of a community which can enable them to have better and better opportunities to do better in society. So it is an attempt and it is a method development that we expect a great deal of. But Herning Municipality is also another good example. They were inspired by a Swedish municipality that had done a job in a special way to prevent children from being placed outside the home. Herning Municipality then made an experiment in a small part of their municipality and saw that it actually worked in the way that they directed the Swedish model for their use on. This now means that Herning Municipality has created a completely new way of doing social policy in relation to the prevention of children's placement outside the home, which actually works and which now inspires other municipalities, and we have set aside some money to get other municipalities to dare to try to develop the same model, perhaps according to their own municipal experience. What is also interesting about the innovation fund is that there can be sources of funding outside what we have set aside here in Christiansborg, namely the pension funds. They would like to contribute to investing in the Social Innovation Fund if they can see that they can benefit over a long period of time, thus reducing expenditure in an area of social policy. And there may be foundations that help to develop social policy methods that can then come out on different levels. In fact, this is a new way of developing social policy, of which some of us expect a great deal. I think you could hope that Enhedslisten could see how it could actually work over the next few years and try to see how this whole big project, which we call the Social Innovation Fund, actually has its history and its background. At least it's a pious hope to get Enhedslisten into this circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104932	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302104935	Thank you. It's always nice to feel welcome, whether you accept the invitation. So thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved for that. Firstly, I would like to say again, as I have done to previous rapporteurs on the platform, just to acknowledge the work that has been done and that the rate pool has actually been developed for the better in terms of the construction and distribution of funds. We'll follow that as best we can. We're tense and so on. I also believe that Mrs Marianne Jelved can see the inspiration in our resolution. It's not like that brought down from the moon, it's taken from some of what's actually already happening. What really separates the Enhedslisten from entering is funding. So I would like to ask Mrs Marianne Jelved in this way: would Mrs Marianne Jelved, for example, if it were cuts in cash aid for the integration service, which I know radicals are beating against, or any other funding that really goes against radicals, then step into the pool? Would Mrs. Marianne Jelved sit there and distribute money, she was fervently against being cut somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105049	No, I didn't want to go into a project that I was very much opposed to. Now I was in the lucky situation that I helped create this whole project, which we call the bet pool, in its time. I helped to make the agreement that actually improved the regulation of transfer income back then. That is what we sometimes forget that it was not a golden time that we have taken 0.3 per cent. from. We made it a much better situation because we regulated it systematically in the future and then took the small part called 0.3%. (i) the improved regulation of transfer incomes and used for social policy development work. And we are for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105132	Mrs Pernille Skip wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105134	But would Mrs Marianne Jelved and Radicals then, if you were not bound by a settlement, we would pretend that you were not bound by a settlement rather regulate the transfer income fully, so that you follow wage and price developments and abolish the rate regulation? Would Radicals do so if they were not bound by a settlement, and that is what was voted on? Would Radicals then vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105203	We do not want to change the system we have today, because we actually think that it works very well and there is also reasonableness in it. That's a thoughtful example. But I do not wish to deny, theoretically, that we as a party can find ourselves in a situation in which we must help finance something in a way that we do not want to be involved in, and then we are outside. You can do that, but that is not what we are talking about here. We're actually in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105229	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105245	Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate, which we have had many times over the years. As several others have said, it is important, when we discuss this, to have the history in place. There has never been a time when transfer incomes have been regulated 100%. Before 1990, the national pension was regulated by the price index, and there was no automatic in how the transfer was regulated, but after 1990, the national pension and other transfer income were regulated by the wage and price regulation, and so it was a rather massive jump upwards. Then you took 0.3 per cent, we still do, and put it into what we call the bet pool. So when we discuss this, I think we should be very clear as to what we want, and the Enhedslisten's proposal is, of course, about abolishing the rate pool. It is believed to abolish the down-regulation of 0.3 per cent. Then there is also a proposal for a new social development and innovation pool. To that I would say that, within the current rate pool, that is the direction we are going in. Several of my colleagues have also mentioned this. You look at the Herning model, where you take a frame, and you look at how you can get far more long-term and fixed transfers. We have a fight with that pool tyranny, step by step, but which has rightly been criticized. Several of my colleagues have also referred to this issue of SEM, in other words the socio-economic investment model, where we are more trying to say, as Mr. Torsten Gejl also said that when we invest in particularly vulnerable children and others, it is not just spending, then it is investment in people. It is not only a humanistic, human investment; it can also be seen on the bottom line. That is why we have also repeatedly told the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that they are now going to upgrade their models, so that it becomes more true that there should not be this built-in bias where only tax cuts have dynamic effects while all sorts of other investments do not have. So that development is on the way. One of the problems I see in Enhedslisten's proposal is that the economy of this is simply not connected. The Enhedslisten proposes a social development and innovation pool to add 550 million. kr. This means that there must be funding of 1.1 billion per year. kr. After 2 years, 1.65 billion. kr. After 3 years etc. etc. This soft drinks tax, which is being proposed, only covers one year, and then we need something new for year 2, year 3 and so on. etc. I would like to divide this proposal into a number of different issues in order to be sure that we are talking about the same thing. The direction that Enhedslisten wants there to be in relation to a new social development and innovation pool is the direction in which the social rapporteurs in particular, but in fact everyone who sits with this area, is heading in: Step away from the pool tyranny, look at the long-term efforts, look at how to e.g. can also get pension fund funds into these bets. The second is to say that less regulation must be abolished, but, as I said before, there has never been this perfect level where there was a regulation of one hundred per cent of transfer income, so you have not gone from a level and so down; you have gone from a low level where only price indexed up to a wage and price regulation. That is why you can say and say that there must be a 1:1 regulation, and we believe that in the SF too. We're in the bet pool settlement, we're in the bet pool, because we'd like to help steer the work towards this lot of money in the bet pool being spent better, more long-term, with greater effect, with less pool tyranny. At the same time, you have to say that there has not been any perfect scenario where you then took a lot of money and came down to a lower level. That is why I also have to ask whether Enhedslisten would like to be in a situation like that before we got the bet pool, because then there will be a lot of billions less kroner for people on transfer income than there would have been today. I hope I have mentioned the various elements of the proposal. We cannot support what it is, and we do not really think it is a very good structured proposal, but we would like to discuss the regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105810	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105812	The Enhedslisten has not put forward a proposal that we should go back to what was before the rate pool or before the rate regulation. That is simply not what the proposal says. It says that we are abolishing the rate regulation and fully regulating transfer income. To me, it sounds kind of like an extravaganza. It is not because the SF's rapporteur has been the only rapporteur who has tried to point out that it was much worse in the past, rather than reacting to what we are actually proposing. So I would just like us to have a very clear answer from the financial rapporteur, as far as I know, from the SF: the rate pool is financed by a minor regulation of transfer income, cash benefits, retirement pensions, etc., is that not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302105906	The rate pool is financed by the Finance Act by means of a method of less regulation. I know this sounds very technical, but there has never been a full regulation from which some money has been taken. We've gone from a low level to a higher level. So that's the method calculation, that's the 0.3 percent that comes in from the Finance Act and finances it here. What I think we should be discussing was: we came from a low level to a higher level, and is it our ambition that we should reach a 1:1 regulation? Yeah. But then we have to agree on the funding, and so what is in the proposal is not enough. I think the important thing is that if we want to go up to 1:1 regulation, then we have to find that money, that is to say, see if there is a majority in favour of it. But I would like to argue against this with the belief that if we abolished this, there would be a 1:1 regulation. Right now, we have a bourgeois majority. You could decide tomorrow, if there was such a situation, that there would be no regulation at all. That is why this is also a way of getting the bourgeois majority in favour of regulation after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110017	Thank you. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper wish to speak again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110019	The Danish People's Party has just said that they also want a 1:1 regulation. Then I can't understand why you're worried about that bourgeois majority. Well, it seems kind of like a roundabout. If SF agrees, SF also agrees with the proposal from Enhedslisten, namely that we need a 1:1 regulation. We're not suggesting going back to something that was once. We propose the resolution on which we are to vote. It is about getting a 1:1 adjustment of transfer incomes so that they follow wage and price developments, like everyone else. So that's SF for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110107	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110112	SF is in the long term in order to achieve a 1:1 regulation. We think it is unreasonable to make less regulation. I just wanted to say again and to those who might be looking at saying that we have not gone from a situation where there was a full regulation that has then been taken away. I am glad that Mrs Pernille Skipper has such great faith in the Danish People's Party, but the Danish People's Party is also a party that supports a cash aid ceiling and other poverty benefits, and that is why I just get nervous about leaving it to a random majority whether no regulation or a full regulation minus the 0.3 per cent. Therefore, we in the SF would very much like to see whether we can find a way to fence it in so that we do not leave it to a random bourgeois majority to cut even more in transfer income than we see today. So it's actually an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110150	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110156	Now Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that the SF would like to go to a point where one has a 1:1 regulation and that the funding contained in this motion for a resolution we are debating does not cover it. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to elaborate on this, because I noticed exactly the same thing when I was reading it, namely that we are spending well and well half a billion. kr. in each year from Enhedslisten's side. But what is real here is that year after year we are building up, so that is 1⁄2 billion. kr. in the year 1.1 billion. kr. in the year 2, 11⁄2 billion. kr. in year 3 etc. Out there. That is to say, if you had to spend as much money in the social field as is the case, under the pool of rates regime, Enhedslisten would have to come up with quite different funding than the one that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110243	I am just waiting for the two rapporteurs to finish their discussions. No, it takes place from the platform, so go ahead with the rapporteur). If you want funding to keep up with what is today, you have to put something on top again and again and again. That means, for example, that we have to do something about it. I'm gonna need a soda-water tax. Then you have to invent a new soda-ash tax in the second year and a third in the third year and so on. I am not saying that we should not discuss funding, but I am just saying that it is not in this proposal. And when Enhedslisten writes that there is money in the room, I must also say that it is not there if we are to keep up with demographic development plus the rise in prosperity, and so, as far as I understand, does Enhedslisten want it. So if you want to start tampering with the room, there is no money for demographic development, that is to say, that we are getting older and that people have an expected increase in prosperity. So the room for manoeuvre needs to be used for it. So there is nothing to pick out to finance some other things. This is not, of course, to say that we cannot discuss a new funding, but it is just not in this proposal, and that is what I find problematic. But we can sit together and try to see if there can be some other ideas on the table that can finance this, because we are really willing to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110400	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110404	Thank you. I hadn't really prepared to ask SF about something in this case, but it's quite interesting. Because there is a random majority, as has been said. In fact, there is no chance of a majority in this House. Either there is a majority or there is no majority. Then I would like to ask whether SF is part of this random majority that wants to look at the funding of the rate pool. Will the SF be part of the random majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110430	What I was trying to say before was that when we have a bet pool agreement, we're bound together that there's going to be this upward regulation, full regulation minus the 0.3%. If there is not, that is, if we are not bound together, it is dependent on any majority, whether we are going to say that this year, transfer incomes should not increase at all, and then they will be much more hollowed out than they are today. That is why I am a little worried about leaving it up to, for example. a bourgeois majority to say that we do not think that transfer income should increase at all. I just have to say that the Danish People's Party supports a bourgeois government, supports poverty benefits, supports a cash aid ceiling. That's why Mr. René Christensen excuse me that I do not have a hundred percent confidence that the Danish People's Party would not undermine the transfer income. But if we can make a bill with funding that fences it in, so that it is not just the following year back to as it was before 1990 with no regulation, then we are interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110540	Then it's mr. René Christensen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110544	One might almost think that this was such a joke, but it actually happens in the Assembly Hall. In fact, with the 2012 tax reform, when SF was in government, it was decided not to regulate transfer income, i.e. there should be zero. So what a random bourgeois majority would do that was a socialist government led by the SF as a support party. They chose not to regulate transfer income. Well, just try to stop a little bit for what you're standing up there saying from Parliament's platform. It's gonna be kind of funny. One simply to go back, because there was no answer to that: is SF interested in being part of a random majority wishing to change the financing model of the rate pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110625	We are interested in a majority that can ensure a change to this, not just for a year, after which there is a new majority that regulates even less than it is today, but one that is safe, as is the wage-pool settlement. It then requires that we settle. Then it is not just an agreement, then it is not just a resolution, but then it is a binding settlement that this is how we do it. Then we're interested. But this thing flies back and forth, so that then DF supports this model, then they support the cash aid ceiling and the poverty benefit, no, we're not interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110702	We thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302110710	Thank you for that, President. The resolution we have on today's agenda is, after all, about the rate pool. After all, the bet pool is for social improvements. That is the whole point of departure. These are new social development models, evaluation and follow-up of the models that are now here. The wagering pool effort must be constantly adjusted and adjusted. And if it is the case that you want to change it to improve it, then we have the time for it, namely until 2023. Since the early 1990s, when the pool was set up, there has been broad political support among the parliamentary parties for it, all except Enhedslisten. If we are to take last year's wage-pool agreement, money for the elderly was given priority of 325 million. kr. over the next four years, 1 billion. kr. over the next four years to the social area, including money to combat homelessness, a new and targeted effort for children and young people with disabilities, strengthening the foster family area, etc. Right now we are in the Ministry of Social Affairs negotiating a new family justice system, where Enhedslisten is in the negotiations, but where it is the wagering parties that have set aside the funds so that we can sit and negotiate a new family justice system otherwise it would not have been possible. So here too, the bet pool plays a role. The money that we are talking about today comes from a broad majority in the Folketing, which gives priority to money from taxpayers. So it is the hardworking Dane who pays. This means that special efforts can be made each year for the weak groups in our society. It is also taxpayers who pay each year for transfer income to be regulated annually and reflect wage developments in the labour market. This means that beneficiaries of transfer income and weak groups actually share in the general prosperity increase. The current rate pool system thus provides basic security for increasing transfer income, and at the same time ensures that significant funds can be allocated each year to the weakest citizens of our society. In 2018, 50 million has been set aside. kr. for a social investment fund, and in 2017 EUR 250 million was set aside. kr. over four years for a development and investment programme to promote stronger social mobility. Then we should also remember that the stake pool negotiations are taking place in an open forum, and prior to the negotiations in 2018, the government presented its priorities to the public at www.region.dk, and all parties of the Folketing, except Enhedslisten, participate with their rapporteur in the negotiations. They are taking a consensus approach, and this means that efforts are being made to ensure that as many projects as possible are supported as widely as possible. In fact, it is quite special that we have a system in which almost all parties, despite political differences, solve some of society's most important problems. I think that the negotiations here today have failed, that is to say that we have something which has a great strength here and which enables us to help the weakest in our society. Is this the way we can't do this any better? I'm sure we can. I am also sure that it can be developed and, of course, in the Conservative People's Party, we are looking into whether we can do better. We have time for that until 2023. Motion for a resolution B 66 cannot be supported by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302111121	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302111134	Thank you for a very good debate so far. I very often get emails from people who can't understand why Enhedslisten wasn't in some agreement about improved psychiatry or medical cannabis or other things that Enhedslisten usually supports and fights for and loves and that we should be celebrating. And every time I have to say that it is because it is some interventions that are very often good and fine, but which are financed by the rate pool, that is, by money coming from people on early retirement, unemployed, sick, people with disabilities, and that is why it is an agreement that Enhedslisten is not included in. This means, with the funding, that a single folk pensionist has DKK 7,000. less between their hands every year than they would otherwise have had. And I never got an email back from anyone who wrote that it was bad of Enhedslisten that they didn't go along with that funding. Especially every autumn I also get a lot of e-mails, and it's from people who work with different kinds of social efforts... important, good social efforts. It may be people who work with women in prostitution, homeless people, former criminals, vulnerable young people who have been placed perhaps. And then it writes that they are afraid that their important work will have to stop because their wagering pool allocation expires, and then they ask me to remember them in the upcoming wagering pool negotiations. And then I have to say, I'm sorry. The Enhedslisten is not helping to distribute the money because we are not helping to find it with some of those who have the least. There is not once anyone who works with socially vulnerable people who has answered me: God, it cannot be known, or it was crazy and stupid that they were not in that settlement, because that funding means nothing to the people I work with every day. Never has anyone answered that question. There are even quite a lot of people who, instead of writing and telling me over and over again how to spend time and effort on applications, on media handling to transform their offer, so that it seems as if it is something new so that they can search again, even though it is actually the same offer for example. homeless, they have to find money over and over and over again in the bet pool. They are all doing so, instead of putting their energies into what they should be putting their energies on, namely the social stakes. Every once in a while, we have this conversation in the Assembly Hall. I know that some people have started their rapporteur's speech today by saying that it is almost once a year that the Enhedslisten is tabling this motion for a resolution. So it is not; it is quite a number of years since the Enhedslisten made it last, and the proposal is not at all the same. It is actually inspired by what many rapporteurs have pointed out here from the platform, namely that new developments are taking place and that new methods have been found to set up the rate pool system so that the money can be allocated smarter and less troublesome to say so in Jutland. We have been inspired by this in our proposals, because we think that is actually a good idea; there we are on the right track. Where you are not on the right track is when you still maintain this minor regulation, which finances the whole party and all the actions. And that means that a folk pensionist, a person with disabilities, an early retirementist, an unemployed person, a sick person is still getting less and less money out of their hands than they would have had if we fully regulated the transfer income according to wage and price developments and one to one. This means, of course, that many of the people who are trying to help with stakes funded through the rate pool are also more pressure on the economy every day than they would otherwise have been if you had not had this funding. So it is some of the same people, some of the weakest groups in our society, who pay to make good efforts for some of the weakest groups in our society. Basically, we do not think that is fair; it is poor funding, and it can actually be found better. Fortunately, there are others in this Chamber who agree with me on this. And there are others who have agreed with us as far back as the time when Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil was a member of the Enhedslisten. And that is why I am surprised at her brilliant talents as the financial rapporteur at the time and the many financial rapporteurs we have had in the Enhedslisten since then that it has not succeeded. Because, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party pointed out, there should be 97 mandates to support us doing something else, and yet we are in some form of the Bermuda Triangle of the movement pool, where we cannot get to grips with it and do something about it. In the end, this means that there is one of the good, lovely rapporteurs, one of the fantastic parties who is actually opposed to this minor regulation, which at some point has to break open the balloon and say that then they leave the settlement. Because until then, as the rapporteur of the Left so clearly read out, they will be bound by this, and then they must not vote in favour of a proposal that actually does something that they really think is good. They are forced to vote against a proposal they actually agree with because they are in that conciliation. Therefore, they cannot do anything to change the funding. I would like to say two things in relation to fences. There are many who have stood up here and said that there are things that have been fenced in with the bet pool. It was Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil of the Socialists who said that the money is fenced in, and that means that the bourgeois cannot spend the money from the rate regulation on all sorts of other things, but spend it on socially vulnerable and weak groups and people on transfer income. I think that may be a truth with modifications gradually, for there are also agreements on better psychiatry and divorce systems that others have proposed, chronically ill, nursing home portals that are funded through the rate pool. So the definition of weak groups or socially vulnerable ones is, of course, stretched a little. Well, we see some actually quite ordinary welfare measures, which should be financed by the ordinary tax ticket, coming in and grabbing the money from the rate pool. Then the rapporteur for the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, said that there has been a pool of movements regulation with this, and then there can be no bourgeois majority and no further regulation of transfer incomes. If you had to be a bit bold, and I may want to do that after that round, then I should say: No, there was no need for a bourgeois majority; there was just a need for a S-SF-R government to do that. That is what was done in the tax agreement in 2012. Then you broke the bet pool settlement because Dansk Folkeparti did not want to be part of the tax agreement that gave top tax relief and took money from people on transfer income. And then you made a new bet pool settlement, where you tied all parties to accept the top tax credit too, which I even think was led by a SF tax minister. So there's not much that's fenced in here, unfortunately. The proposals of the Enhedslisten fall into three parts. One is that less regulation will be abolished, so that people on transfer income will in future have their income regulated on an equal footing with everyone else. The second part is that the fixed appropriations that are in the rate pool today will be made available as fixed appropriations under the Finance Act and will be withdrawn from the pool management system. The third part is to create a special pool that can meet the initial purpose of the rate pool to finance new, exciting, innovative social projects, which are not immediately being re-casted, but which may be a little more risky and not evidence-based, as the rapporteur of the Left also pointed out. We also think this is an important element, because we must have it. In this context, I would also very much like to acknowledge the work that is being done, there should be no doubt that we on the Enhedslist recognise that the conciliation circle has done so. And we look forward to keeping up with the fact that things can get even better again. Finally, I would like to say that I think we are always told that we cannot sit and distribute the money without also voicing our support for the funding and, for some reason, we are only succeeding over and over again in the field of the investment pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112058	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112103	Thank you. It is a brief comment on the 2012 tax agreement. I also think that Mrs Pernille Skipper can remember what debate this gave rise to, and that is actually why I tried from the platform to say that if we can make an agreement where there is a guarantee that what is happening with the rate pool right now, when it is regulated minus 0.3 per cent, will become a full regulation, for example, that there will be a full regulation. is a new conciliation, that there is funding for it, and the positive developments in relation to what the pool of rates is going to go on, then we are very interested. Now, unfortunately, the debate became rather polemical instead of: how do we proceed from here? It is just to note that if we terminate the rate pool settlement, we may go back to the way it was before the rate pool existed, that is, with much, much less money for the transfer income than today. That's why we have to do this in a smart way that fences in a future system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112209	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112212	It really wasn't my intention to be polemical, but I may not have lost all the fury yet from 2012. Because, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen rightly notes, I remember, yes. What happens when you cancel the settlement? Well, the settlement was terminated then, and then a new one was made, as I understand the construction. So it is not true that you just fall back to what was before, because then you have to find an alternative model, that is true if there is a majority in the Folketing for it. Then how do we move on? I would like to put the question back to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. I'm kind of open to anything. How do we move on? What can we do? So if we're gonna do this little side-shooting, trying to have meetings with those who want to find alternative funding, and then when you get somewhere there, you can... well, we're in on the worst. How do we move on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112307	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112311	In any case, to move forward, there should be enough parties to create a new majority to settle. If we were to vote in favour of a resolution, the government would, first of all, have to turn it into a legislative proposal, and it could then be changed by different majorities, so it would have to be something that was conciliation. Secondly, there should also be another funding. Because, with all due respect, the funding that is in it does not, in other words, stand in proportion to the increase that is otherwise in the rate-pool funds. However, I do not think that all these discussions should end with financing discussions. I just want to say that we need to find a different model than there is here, and then we need to continue the very positive development that is within the rate pool with the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112353	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112356	Firstly, for funding: this is simply a misunderstanding of our resolution. Our resolution does not add 550 million. kr. and then 1.1 billion. kr. etc. This is not a rising pool we have proposed. It's a fixed, fixed pool. So this is a misunderstanding and this proposal is fully funded. It may not be the same model that SF would want, but it is fully funded. On the other hand, we need to find a new majority to settle: yes, please. The problem, of course, is simply that, in relation to the rate pool as it exists today, there are no conversations about changing the regulation. Nobody else is talking about it, so if you and I are gonna start drinking coffee, it's gonna be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112437	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112441	Now, for quite some time now in this Chamber, there has been talk of such a majority as should be or should not be. I would like to say that the Social Democrats are completely on the goal of how this is built up and we see it as a social improvement. In other words, one went from a system of cutting huge slices of transfer income every year because year by year one did not have an automatic upward adjustment for transfer income, and that was achieved. At the same time, a lot of money has been given to do social work for. Then you can always discuss whether you think that people on transfer income get enough money between their hands; it is always worth a discussion. It just doesn't have anything to do with the bet pool settlement. The wage pool settlement was a significant social improvement, and I would actually just like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm that. Then Enhedslisten can want to go further than that and think that people on transfer income should have more money than today. However, I would just like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm that the wage-pool settlement made that people on transfer income cash got more money between their hands than they did before construction, and that at the same time money was found to do social work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112544	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112550	With all due respect, what was before has nothing to do with this resolution. Well, what Enhedslisten is proposing is not going back to what was before. What Enhedslisten is proposing is to make a full regulation of transfer income, and the Social Democratic Party has still not really answered whether or not you are in favour of it. As far as I have read the Congress resolution of the Social Democratic Party, it is agreed that transfer income should be regulated one by one and therefore also in principle agrees with this proposal, even if it is bound by a settlement. But I can't change the history and the facts. It's true, that's how it used to be. That is no longer the case, nor is it what Enhedslisten is proposing today that we do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112636	Well, I kind of asked about the history. Then it may well be that the rapporteur believes that the proposal is not about history, but what I asked was the history, and so I would like to repeat my question, which is about history. Because it is essential to understand why it is that the Social Democratic Party is part of the wage-pool settlement. That is because establishing the pool of rates was a social improvement, both in cash for the individual on transfer income, and because we had money to do social work, and I do not really understand why Enhedslisten is trying to avoid acknowledging it. Because, as I say, it is quite fair that Enhedslisten would like to place more money on people on transfer income. It is, of course, in the nature of Enhedslisten's own choice, and that is how one now prioritises in one and the other situation. So what I only ask Enhedslisten to confirm is that when this conciliation exists, it was a social progress, and that is of course also why we want to remain part of the conciliation circle that created the social improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112734	I simply think that the Social Democrat rapporteur for a moment forgot to hear my last sentence, where I said that it is absolutely right that things were worse before, then came here and then Enhedslisten proposes something else. So that's the history, and that's the facts. Well, I'm not suggesting changing history or anything. I propose that we regulate the transfer income one to one, so that an old-age pensionist, an unemployed person, an early retirement pensionist, people with disabilities, sick people do not get less and less money between their hands compared with everyone else. What I have yet to hear from the Social Democratic Party is: do we believe in principle that the rate regulation is the right and fair regulation, or did we really want to regulate one to one in principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112818	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112821	Thank you. It's just one thing I need to solve. The rapporteur said that she receives many e-mails, how followers ask why Enhedslisten is not in it or that. One of the examples was medical cannabis, which is also partly based on pool funds. But is it I who remember wrong, or has the Enhedslisten not voted in favour of that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112847	Yes, we often vote in favour of good proposals in the Chamber, but it is in agreements that funding is agreed. We will not vote it through with the bill; we will vote through a change in the law. Medical cannabis is not the only example one can come up with, and often we vote through very good changes to the law that have been agreed in a pool of rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302112918	I'm having a hard time understanding that distinction. So, in today's research, I have seen that there are several places where Enhedslisten is involved in agreements and deals, votes for agreements that are rate-pooled, or negotiates on the basis of potential rate-pool funding, where Enhedslisten also has his hand in the cake jar. That is, for example, the case. family law to which Enhedslisten himself refers in the comments. Yesterday I sat in the Ministry of Social Affairs side by side with Enhedslisten's good negotiator and negotiated family law, and there are also parts of what is rate pool funded. I have so often experienced a hard attack by Enhedslisten because we are helping to develop policies that are rate-pooled. But doesn't Enhedslisten himself do that in these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113006	In other words, as far as I know, funding has not been discussed in the family law negotiations in which we have been sitting. Some funds have been allocated to the pool, so we have to discuss that over there. I fully acknowledge Mr. By the way, Torsten Gejl's dilemma. We often sit in it ourselves, as Mr. Torsten Gejl also points out. You just have to say basically that if there's no one who's about to poke a hole in the balloon, it's gonna be like this unless Mr. Torsten Gejl, of course, has the prospect of convincing the entire conciliation circle that it is necessary to change the funding of the rate pool. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113045	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113050	Right now, Enhedslisten sits with the pool parties and negotiates the family law system in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would like to hear from the rapporteur here how it is related to the Enhedslisten's position on the rate pool that at the same time you are sitting and spending the money from the rate pool, from which we have, of course, allocated quite a lot of money to the family law system for that reform. I simply do not understand how, while you say you will not participate, yet you will be well involved when the money is to be distributed, but not when it is to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113143	In the family law negotiations, which were also referred to by the previous questioner, and therefore I am just answering the same thing again, we have not discussed funding. I am aware that there are some betting pools that have set aside money, but we have not therefore discussed the funding in those negotiations. There is a draft agreement and we have not been told that we must accept that funding in order to participate in negotiations. We have been invited, so of course we sit and negotiate and continue with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113212	The questioner. Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113220	This is in line with the same question: does this mean that if these family-law negotiations that we are holding now are to be financed from the rate pool, then Enhedslisten will be outside an agreement that makes it significantly better for a lot of children who get caught up in divorces and where you make a system that has a lot of inappropriateness in itself significantly better? Would it not help to make an agreement on this if it were to be rate-pooled? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113253	We need to discuss funding in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113301	Well, I understand that we are discussing funding during the negotiations, but if it comes to the fact that the agreement is money-pooled, that this should be financed from the funds that the rapporteur claims to be taken from the beneficiaries of the transfer income, then will the Enhedslisten not be included in the political agreement? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113326	It must be understood that we must, of course, discuss in the negotiations how it is to be financed. I think that Mrs Laura Lindahl knows very well what I think of the way in which measures are financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113337	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. There are no more brief comments and no more have asked for the floor, so that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113407	The negotiations have been opened. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113421	Thank you. We in the Social Democratic Party are keen to restore confidence in our tax system, which is one of the pillars of our welfare society. The bill we are discussing here stems from the agreement to strengthen the public debt collection which all parties of the Danish Parliament entered into in June last year. After SKAT's digital recovery system, EFI/DMI, has collapsed, citizens' and companies' debts to the public sector amount to about 100 billion. kr. It goes without saying that we in the Social Democratic Party take responsibility and contribute to the clean-up and to ensuring a proper recovery framework in the future. With the June agreement last year, SKAT will have new tools to reduce the unsustainablely large tax debt. More resources are being allocated to the recovery area and we are getting cleaned up by this EFI/DMI recovery system. And this is the last cleanup this bill addresses. The aim of the draft law is to create the best possible basis for future debt recovery. This requires that the errors and problems associated with the debts which have been recovered during this period of this EFI/DMI system be cleared up. In order to correct errors and ensure recovery in the future, a number of measures are proposed to simplify the work of resuming cases while ensuring that citizens and businesses are not unnecessarily inconvenienced if a correction of errors would have no or very limited impact on them. For example, it is proposed that the recovery authorities should only resume claims of their own motion where there are doubts as to their legal force if they exceed DKr 3 000. Other cases involving less than DKr 3 000 will only be resumed if the debtor requests it by September 2018. At the same time, an extraordinary depreciation of a number of smaller debts with an estimated total market value of approx. 1 billion kr. Now it is not all these debts that are likely to have legal force, so the revenue actually handed down, if this is adopted, will be smaller. However, this is a very large amount of debts, where there are doubts as to the validity of the debt and which are therefore not immediately and legally recoverable. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that it will require 12,000 years' work and will cost approx. 7 billion kr. to clarify whether the debt can be recovered and it will be such a comprehensive task that it cannot be dealt with in practice. Therefore, it is proposed that the so-called grey claims of less than DKK 1,000. can be written off and that claims between DKK 1,000. and DKK 7,500. can be written off if the debtor has an annual taxable income of less than DKK 200,000. In particular, people will receive cash benefits, cash benefits, sickness benefits, early retirement and old-age pensions, of which a large proportion will probably have a very low or even no ability to pay. For example, for the sake of a sense of justice, fines are not written off and, at the same time, debtors who have a very large debt based on many small debts will not have their entire debt written off. Both KL and the Danish Water and Waste Water Association ask in their hearing answer understandably about this compensation, which is in view of the creditors who will have written off debts as a result of this extraordinary depreciation. After all, in the June 2017 agreement, the parties have committed themselves to discussing this compensation, and we in the Social Democratic Party look forward to being part of it. We are, of course, helping to clean up the chaos that this EFI recovery system has left behind. We regret that it has come to this, that it has ended up being necessary to write off debts, because we basically believe that, of course, if you have debt to the public, you have to pay it. However, we are satisfied with the balance that lies in this proposal and that it is primarily people with low income and poor ability to pay off debts. Moreover, we look forward to the committee's examination of the details of the proposal as well. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they support the proposal as we do. I should also like to welcome the alternative and say that they are also, as a starting point, positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113846	There are no brief comments. So we go ahead and say thank you to Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen and welcome to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302113854	Thank you. It is not surprising that there are a number of parties that have chosen not to be part of the debate today, because this is not a particularly positive matter. After all, it is a follow-up to the collapse of the recovery in the SKAT, that we have these IT systems EFI and DMI, which have collapsed, which have meant that incredibly many data cannot be used, that we do not know whether many of these debts are legal at all. As far as I remember in my head, it is over 12 million debts which are not known at all whether they can be recovered and before you can start to look at whether people have a ability to pay or whether it is really the right item, they have to be reviewed, and that will cost some 12 000 years' work, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned. It will cost an incredible amount of money. It is, of course, what it is, and one might agree that one should find such a basic principle, because of course people have to pay what they owe. But it is simply not possible to gear up the organisation in the SKAT with 12,000 years' work, so we are in the right position to say that we have to write off some debts in order to make the SKAT work forward. For Dansk Folkeparti it is of course a really bad exercise, but sometimes we also have to find some good solutions to fatigue issues. I think that the most important thing in this respect is to ensure that we get a debt recovery that will work forward. That is also where the big money lies. The debt is currently up to about 100 billion. If it is ever going to work again, we also need to clear up the old data, that is to say over 12 million items which we do not know if at all are legal before entering and recovering on them. So in this light we think it would make sense in the really weary situation that we have now, that you have this bill made, where you get a part of many of the small debts, where you historically know many don't have the ability to pay, and that they won't ever pay it, and then of course also leave some resources, so you can come after those who owe the many money. So even if it is a difficult situation, it may well be a good idea to resolve it, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114100	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and welcome to Mrs Britt Baker from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114115	With this proposal, we are implementing agreement on the strengthening of public debt collection. The purpose of the draft law is to clean up the recovery process so that we secure the recovery of public debt in the future. At the same time, it will strengthen confidence in the tax administration and the legal certainty of the individual citizen. Overall, the draft law implements a number of initiatives to address the errors and problems encountered in relation to the debts incurred in the recovery period of the EFI and DMI recovery systems. I shall not repeat what the previous rapporteurs have said. I should just like to mention that the proposal makes a necessary improvement to the systems used in tax recovery, and of course the Left supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114206	Thank you, Mrs. Britt Baker, and welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114215	SKAT has been saved to pieces. Thousands of years of work have been shut down in SKAT since 2005, and it has had a disastrous impact on the functioning of the entire organisation that changing governments, both red and blue, have been behind this. Of course, it has also had an impact on debt recovery. The way SKAT has ended up is not a consequence of decisions made by Enhedslisten. This is a consequence of the disastrous decisions taken by other parties, but we have agreed to this agreement, because it is obvious that the money involved here is an amount of approx. 6 billion kr., which in the real world will only have a real value of about 1 billion. kr., simply cannot be recovered meaningfully, and that the cost of recovering the debt would far exceed the gain for society and thus stand in the way of us spending the resources on the great debtors and getting some more money into the box out of the many billions that are still lying away and having to be recovered for the benefit of the community and for the benefit of our common welfare. It is also important to say that it is particularly socially vulnerable who have written off debts and that these debtors already have a very low ability to pay, so there is also very little prospect of debt being paid. One of the prerequisites for us to go along with the agreement was also that some additional resources were added to SKAT in the same agreement, and it was, after all, a small step in the right direction, although we still need a great deal to get the SKAT back on its feet, among other things. Not least the Tax Control Act, we need to strengthen a great deal more where, in the proposals previously made by the government, there is not a necessary strengthening, but that we need to look at how we can get the level even higher. But, of course, we support the bill. This is part of the agreement made by all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114414	Thanks to Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114431	Thank you for that, President. No one really praises this proposal and yet everyone ends up supporting it. It is, in fact, a very special situation and a special course. In fact, we also support this proposal in the hope that it can actually help the situation that is critical and has been critical and that pushes the public's confidence in the SKAT when there are so many old cases, so that it upsets legal certainty. That is why it is right to take these steps, firstly to help SKAT recover, and secondly to give SKAT the authority to correct a number of minor errors that are of little importance to citizens. So it is the right step to take, even if you can regret the past in this area. But then, on the other hand, we can hope that the future will be better and safer and with more foundations under the legal certainty that we must always be able to have for an institution such as the SKAT. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114531	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. Welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114541	Compared to what the previous speaker said, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, of the Liberal Alliance, said, I would like to congratulate this proposal, although of course it cannot be said that it is such a joyous event. I would like to congratulate both the parties involved and the tax minister for trying to rectify a situation which, of course, has been totally unsustainable and unacceptable and which is the result of 12 years of mistreatment by SKAT and a blind belief that the EFI could get up and stand or 7-9-13 system, as one might call it "where changing governments have expected you to replace a lot of employees in SKAT with a digital system that never got up and running." I also think it is appropriate from the parliamentary platform to apologise to all the employees of the SKAT, both those who were dismissed, without there really being a basis for it, but also those who have had to lay their ears and back to the problems that have been in the SKAT for many years. I think that is actually appropriate. Now we will have to make some choices to get SKAT back on track, and that is where I think our tax minister has done a good job. I have also said several times that I do not think that recovery plan goes as far as it should. More resources are needed in the SKAT, both for debt recovery but also for control and prevention. But so far, so good. We think that we have taken some important steps now, and part of it is then to implement the legislation today and write off some debt, especially to those who already do not want the ability to pay, those who are socially, economically vulnerable. Because, as my colleague from DF also mentioned, having to devote 12,000 years of work to going through this manually means that we will never, at least as far into the future as we can see, be able to get SKAT back on track, for all resources are more than those that are possible should go to this. And it has been a fundamental discussion in the circle precisely about the fairness of writing off large debts, because our society is based on an expectation that there is a right and a duty, that there is fairness, that people pay the taxes they have to pay and pay the debts that have arisen. That is why it has not been an easy decision to write off such large debts, but I believe that the model we have found is the best possible one. That is why we are also supporting this bill, and I would also like at the same time, now that I have also praised the Minister for Taxation, to call for us to continue to look at whether there are resources in the SKAT, both for debt recovery, for prevention and for action where, unfortunately, we can look at the compliance figures that we are getting that there is still a great backlog. And we have a problem that is actually greater than the economy: a democratic problem if people no longer feel that there is solidarity in the way we finance our welfare system and one goes, then that culture goes. We have to do this, and that requires the resources that have already been set aside and, most likely, more than them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114930	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302114938	Thank you for that, President. The draft law, which we are discussing, as several speakers have said, translates into the agreement reached last year by all the parties of the Folketing, and it is intended to clear up this huge amount of tax liability that has arisen in the wake of the problems with the EFI. The agreement to write off such a large amount of claims that SKAT benefits from the Danes was not and is not an easy decision, but it turned out, unfortunately, during the negotiations, and as information came to light on the challenges of the legal force of the claims, the resources to recover them would be so extensive that it would not only be a bad business for the public sector but would simply also be completely impossible to provide hands to solve the task. It would take some 12,000 years to assess the legal validity of these 13.3 million claims. In the course of the negotiations, we also asked whether it would be possible to leave these claims not to write them off, but at least to have them standing if there were then to be an opportunity to recover them. But it turned out that it would pose some other challenges, namely that then you would have to update these systems and send out messages to those who owed money to the public. So, unfortunately, that was not a solution either. And that is why it was also clear that it was a bottom-up task that we had cleaned up the past in order to move forward and to build up a new and more effective recovery. On the part of the Conservative People's Party, we have had a particular focus on the fact that we should not at least cancel the claims which had to do with particularly objectionable debts, which could conflict with the sense of justice, for example. such as fines and the like, and it was also part of the agreement that, in future, there would be the possibility of making what is called separate wage retention in the case of persons from the criminal environment if they had no official ability to pay. And we think this is an important tool for ensuring respect for the issue of fines to people, for example. has no ability to pay. But otherwise most of the previous rapporteurs have said, so I would just like to conclude by saying that this depreciation has of course not been an easy or fun task for any party. But I am actually glad that, when it comes to this, we are broadly united in this clean-up work, because I think it is actually necessary for us all to take responsibility and to jointly lift the trust that needs to be restored to the SKAT, because it has really been put to the test in this process. So it will be a long, cool move to rebuild the Danes' confidence in SKAT, but it can be said that with what we have done now, we will at least have a basis for a more effective recovery in the future and thus also a basis for restoring confidence in the Danish tax administration. So with these comments, I must say that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302115242	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson, and welcome to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302115249	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking you for receiving the bill. I am glad that a united Parliament is behind the bill. As a number of rapporteurs have said, we have agreed on how to clean up the consequences of the suspension of the EFI recovery system and how to ensure that the recovery of debt works in the future, because it must of course be the case that if a citizen does not pay what the citizen should have to pay to the community, it has consequences and that we have some effective tools to ensure that this actually happens. Why is that fair? It is because otherwise it is all those who pay it, they must pay it and it is fortunately the majority who are going to pay something more because there are some who do not respect the rules and laws that apply to the payment of taxes and other things that could end up in a debt or a claim to the public. That is why, as elected representatives, we have an obligation to have this sort of thing under control. That is not something that should be political in, it is something that should just work. I'm afraid it hasn't. Therefore, it has been important for the government and the parties to the agreement to correct the errors and problems that have arisen in relation to the debts of the debt collection during the period of EFI. Of course, SKAT's resources must be used efficiently, and that is why we propose in the legislative proposal a number of measures aimed precisely at ensuring such good and efficient and appropriate use of resources in the task-solving process. The bill indicates that citizens and companies should not be inconvenienced, at least not unnecessarily, if a correction of errors alone would have a limited impact on them, or said in more general Danish: With the rules that apply today, SKAT should send a lot of letters to some citizens as part of this clean-up exercise and say that we have had to count on a lot of things now. There we say that in cases where it does not matter to the citizen what is the result, i.e. whether to pay or not, there is no reason to do these recalculations and send a lot of letters back and forth. It would just confuse the citizen. So it is only in those cases where it is important to inform the citizen, of course. So we're gonna clean that up with the bill. Therefore, we propose a number of rules aimed at limiting and focusing the task of SKAT to resume cases affected by illegal recovery during the period of operation of the EFI. Again, said in plain English: If a citizen has been charged any debt illegally, then the citizen must be found and the money must be repaid with interest. If it has not really had any impact on the citizen, then perhaps it is not there to put the resources down. It must be, like the actual significance for the citizen, that determines what action is being taken in relation to the resumption. There has also been broad agreement on this. I'd like to sign for that. In addition to the reinstatement task, the clean-up task consists of clarifying whether the debts received for recovery during the operational period of the EFI are still legally enforceable, i.e.: valid and will therefore be legally recoverable. And, to put it more popularly, not to throw more good money at bad, it is proposed that a number of smaller debts should be written off according to a model that takes account of the debtor's ability to pay and at the same time takes account of the sense of justice, so that, for example, fines of, inter alia, police territory is not depreciated. The targeted write-off must ensure costs for the so-called res judicata assessments of whether debt items with questionable legal force are proportionate to the size of each debt item and whether the task can in practice be carried out administratively as well as organisationally. At the same time, the bill ensures that debtors with disproportionate debts, i.e. many small debts, do not have their entire debt written off - that would not be fair either - and therefore the bill contains what is called a depreciation ceiling. The draft law also provides for an authorisation to lay down, for a 5-year period, rules on further depreciation of debt items affected by data errors and other problems. These are very special situations, such as: on debt items in some of the SKAT's own collection systems and, as is apparent from the draft law, a notice on such depreciation will be sent in external consultation and the authorisation will only be used after the Financial Committee has been informed. So the clean-up bill is by its very nature, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, a draft law which both as a minister and as rapporteur would have preferred to have been avoided, but it is therefore necessary. We sometimes have to make some unpopular and, unfortunately, expensive decisions in order to quickly arrive at a situation where we have the right and the right. It does not make sense to spend decades cleaning up some of the debts that EFI has both polluted and destroyed and could not effectively recover. There we have to draw a line in the sand and write off some debts. We are doing this here, in my opinion as a minister, in a fair way in which we ensure that those who have written off debts are, as a rule, people who have no ability to pay, or people who have very small debts where it is not worth getting the money in. Then, in the long run, we can get reasonable and ensure that everyone, no matter who you are and what debt you have, will pay what they have to pay, and hopefully also on time. Therefore, I would like to sign for the long but also good and constructive process we have had, where all the parties of the Folketing are behind the agreement. It is gratifying that everyone will share in taking responsibility in this difficult matter, for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302115848	We also thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak either, so the negotiations are closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302115909	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Culture. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302115932	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the floor. The proposal here from the Danish People's Party instructs the government to table a bill to set up a language term bank within the end of this parliamentary year. And the overall purpose of the language termbank is, according to the comments, to preserve the Danish language, to develop Danish terminology and communicate this to the educational sector and the other public respectively. According to the motion for a resolution, a language term bank is to be set up in which everyday words and professional terms in both Danish and foreign languages and associated definitions are to be recorded in structured databases and made available to all. According to the proposal, the term bank must therefore have both a general language and a professional language objective. The proposal mentions various options for the organizational placement of a language thermobank. It could be at a university, for example. in connection with a language centre or department for language terminology or in connection with the Danish Language Board. It could also be in cooperation between these organisations. The financing model of the proposal is similarly open, depending on where a languagerm bank could be placed organisationally. I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party with its proposal highlights a very important issue, namely the development of Danish language terms and concepts in an increasingly globalised society. The Danish language is cultural. But I cannot support the proposal in the form in which the Danish People's Party has put it here. There is no doubt that the development of our professional language and the overview of the work on Danish trade terminology are important for a wide range of areas. It is education, education, research, translation public communication with citizens and very much more. At the same time, however, I think it is very clear that the proposal raises a great deal of questions. It could, for example, be done. the question of how to define a language term bank, what needs a language term bank should meet, who or what the specific target groups are, which organisational constraints will best respond to the specific needs, etc. I am also aware that the question of a language term bank was also raised in connection with some of the presentations of the hearing on Danish language technology that we had in the Danish Parliament's Committee on Culture. It was a hearing held last spring. The work on terminology and conceptual definitions is thus closely linked to a number of elements of language technology in general. That is why I propose that the committee under the Danish Language Board, which will present perspectives and challenges for Danish language technology in the coming year, should also have the task of clarifying the need and prospects for a possible language term bank. The Danish Language Board is, I know, in the process of setting up the committee, and I think it would be natural for the language technology field to be included in that context. I would therefore suggest that the task of the Danish Language Board be to include relevant questions about a possible language term bank in the terms of reference of the language technology committee. It will then be possible to look at the proposal to create a language term bank in an overall perspective and on a more enlightened basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120311	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120315	I would like to thank the Minister for his partial response to the motion for a resolution, although, of course, we had hoped that the government would have thought it necessary to support it. Because in the other Nordic countries, it is easy to find a way of changing the law and setting up language banks, which is why I expected the government to support it. The Minister then says that this cannot be done in this form, but that it will then be left to the Language Board in the form of an extended mandate to do so. But does it not ultimately require a change of law if a language term bank is to be set up in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120402	It probably does, and that is why I think we need to clarify it. One possibility, of course, is to create a language term bank, but there could be other options, because the essential thing is to sort out the task. And I would like that to be clarified in detail so that we can decide what form it should take, what organizational suspension it should have, and whether some of these tasks will be solved elsewhere, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120435	I actually hear the Minister and the government say that it is perfectly agreed that we should have a language term bank but that we simply do not entirely agree that this should be the way it is formulated in the resolution. You want to know more, and you want the Language Board to tell you how it is going to happen, and when that happens, the government will say yes to a language term bank. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120455	Fridays may hear what Fridays' ears want to hear, because I didn't actually say that. I said I think we should try to look at it. I agree that it is an important task for us to have a look at these things, but whether it should be the case that we are setting up a genuine language term bank, just as we can see people have done in some of the countries around us, or whether we should do it in another way, I will leave it open until we have heard what it is for a decision which would be reasonable to make the decision. So I have given no undertaking today except that I agree, paragraph 1, that the task is essential and, paragraph 2, that we should have someone to describe what opportunities and challenges there may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120538	Welcome to the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120550	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, the Danish People's Party will create a language termbank. According to the comments to the proposal, the language term bank should be used to record everyday words and professional terms from both Danish and foreign languages with available definitions. This means that the language term bank can be used by both lay and professionals. Denmark is a small language area, and therefore there is also reason to be aware of the development and preservation of the Danish language. That is also part of the intention behind this motion for a resolution, and it is certainly sympathetic. About two years ago, we discussed another motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the setting up of a linguistic technology committee, and here the Social Democrats also expressed our desire to engage in a discussion on measures to promote the development, dissemination and preservation of the Danish language. Particularly in relation to the digital developments that are taking place in these years, there may be good reason for language-supporting efforts, which is why it is also good that a language-technology committee is now under way, as I understand from the Minister. We cannot support this concrete proposal in the Social Democratic Party. The funding is a little unclear. In addition, we do not think that the basis for the decision, as it stands right now, is convincing and thorough enough to make sure that it is precisely this step that is the right one to take at this time. I think it makes sense for the Minister to propose that this issue of a language term bank be included in the work of the language technology committee that is on the way. In view of this, as I said, the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal. I should like to say from the SF that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120740	Thank you, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. There is a brief comment from Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120746	Because there was. After all, the Minister wanted to ask the Language Board to describe it in detail in order to establish such a term bank. If it turns out that the Languages Board, with all its talented professionals, has been able to describe it in a way so that the Social Democrats can vouch for it. If this is the prerequisite, will the Social Democrats say yes to the creation of a language term bank in line with the other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120824	What we lack is a slightly better basis for decision-making, that is, what is really needed. Is there any alternative than this to meet that need in other ways? Is there anything that already exists that can also be used in this context? How much does it cost? And what it costs will be money that could be used in a different way than just for a language term bank like this one, etc.? That is the basis for the decision which we would like to see clarified in greater detail before we take a position. So if this committee under the Spokesman's Board gets this matter clarified in the form of a more thorough decision-making basis, then we will read it and deal with the arguments that are there and then take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120912	There are two things in it. One thing is to take a position on principle to want to set up a language term bank, and the other is whether the basis for decision today is good enough. The Socialists say that is not good enough. That's fair enough! Hopefully there will be a better basis for decision when the Language Board has looked at it, because it is professionals, it is the best in the country and they know what it is about. In other words, they come back with something, and the Socialists must be able to say today: if there is a proper basis for decision, then we say yes to that language term bank, because in principle we are in favour of having it in line with the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302120949	Well, I understand the question. In other words, our position on whether a language term bank should be set up depends on what the content will be in the decision-making basis, what the arguments are and how it will be illuminated, whether there will be alternatives, etc. So since we do not yet know the basis for the decision, I cannot stand here and promise what we will think of the matter when the basis for the decision is reached at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121014	Thank you, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. There are no more brief comments and we welcome Mrs Britt Baker from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121024	Today we are debating motion for a resolution B-60 on the establishment of a language thermobank. With the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, the government is required, before the end of this parliamentary year, to make legislative proposals for the creation of a language term bank. The proposal follows on from a long-term debate on how best to protect Danish terms and definitions, and this is a very important debate at a time when language technology crosses national borders and digitalisation is moving rapidly. At the same time, our language is crucial to our cultural community, our Danish DNA and our history, and there is no doubt that we must safeguard our mother tongue as best we can. Language technology already fills a lot and exists today in both teaching and translation, as an aid for reading and much more. It is an area of rapid development, and it is therefore also essential that we relate to whether we should have a Danish language term bank. I would therefore like to thank the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. In the Left, of course, we support the fact that we are safeguarding our Danish language in the best possible way, and that is why we also support the intention of this proposal. However, in line with the Minister, we believe that there is a need to clarify the need for a language term bank before we establish a possible change of law in this area. At the same time, it is essential that we find out whether the language term bank should be raised by a language centre, by a language technology department, by the Danish Language Board or by something quite fourth. The Left therefore welcomes the Minister's proposal to identify the need for a possible language term bank. We support the incorporation of a study of needs into the terms of reference of the language technology committee. Against this background, I would like to stress that we in the Left do not support the proposals of the Danish People's Party, but we support the search for a language term bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121245	There is a brief comment from the honourable Member. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121249	Thank you, Mr President. I should just like to get this right, and that is a little in line with the Socialist rapporteur. The motion for a resolution cannot be approved because there is no basis for a decision to be taken. My question then goes on to the very idea of a language term bank, that is to say, the idea of having a language term bank, as other Nordic countries have considered it necessary for the preservation of their language. Does the Left agree in principle that there should be a term bank for languages in the long term? And then we just have to figure out how to do it, and it is, of course, professionals who have to find out, but does the Left agree in principle that we should have a language term bank because it is simply necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121345	It depends entirely on what is to be achieved in the work to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121352	What might it depend on? The rapporteur can go a little further on this. Is that the money? Is that where it's supposed to be? Are those other things? In principle, one can relate to the idea of a language term bank, so what does the decision depend on? What does the attitude depend on? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121420	In fact, I think I made it quite clear in my speech. We can easily shop on the idea of a language term bank, but right now we need the committee's work first. We need to read what they recommend. Is that supposed to be a separate language term bank? Can you do this job at the language center? We are not in favour of duplication and we are not in favour of bureaucracy. We want to safeguard the Danish language. We want to strengthen this effort, but we must also support the fact that this work is not going on in two places at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121457	Thank you, Mrs. Britt Baker, and welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here at the castle we follow the protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302121513	Thank you, President. It is a well-known mistake in critics that they do not review the author's book, but that they report the book they think the author should have written, and I am tempted to fall into that error here, because I am tempted to raise the discussion about: What is it really that threatens Danish language? Is it the absence of a language term bank that is the greatest threat to Danish language? Of course it isn't. I have not said anything about the proposal, and I shall come back to that. But there are huge threats to the Danish language, really big threats, especially in this time, and these are threats coming from major international media giants and social media, which are tossing loose, and which are more and more making what should we say that the Danish language is being wiped out and is being used less and less. The way to do something about it is, of course, to ensure that, as a society, we have a hand in dealing with some institutions, such as us. can influence. That is why it is absolutely insane if, for example, we are to be insane. will sell TV 2 and it ends up in foreign hands, where we can't guarantee how much of the surface is used for foreign series, or whatever. Therefore, it would also be right to cut Denmark's Radio significantly, for example. 18% In other words, it would not be wise to defend the Danish language, and that is where we will see in the forthcoming media settlement who is really defending the Danish language and for whom it is more symbolic. That does not mean that we have said anything about the content of the proposal, because we are actually positive about the content of the proposal. We think it is a good proposal to create a language term bank. Our immediate view is that we want to play our part in this. Then we still have some things that we think should be clarified in committee negotiations. We have something to change, but we also have something to clarify. We need to clarify whether setting up a real bank, like an independent entity, is the best way. We may have done so ourselves, we have not done so, but we can do so in the context of the committee negotiations. The experience of Sweden, Norway and Finland. What is the experience of this? It is of course relevant, as the proposal points out just now, that they have done so. What experience do they have with this? What can we learn from them? Perhaps we can even get someone from up there to tell us about the experience so that we can learn from their good things and maybe avoid their mistakes as well. Then, I think, we shall see it in the context of a single language policy. I think it's very important that we don't just go somewhere here and somewhere there. So it is important for us, in the course of the committee procedure, to put it into a single language policy. Then there is one thing that needs to be changed, and that is the fact that the money for this has to be taken from the existing funds. That is not a way we normally finance in the Enhedslisten, I would like to say that. So, in the Enhedslisten, which is a very, very financially responsible party, we always explain very precisely where we think the money should be taken, and fortunately we have enough to take off because Danish society is so wrong. Therefore, there is plenty of money at the top of Danish society that can be used to redistribute, so that we have a more equal society. That is why, as a rule, we do not have the major problems of financing our proposal, even when it comes to tax cuts for the most disadvantaged, where we are always ready for it. But just referring to the existing funds without knowing exactly what it is going to do, we do not think it is a good idea. So we need to change that, but I think we can have that, too. However, with these comments, I would like to say that we are basically positive about the proposal and that we are in favour of the committee procedure, and we hope that, in this context, it will be possible to reach a positive conclusion in this Chamber. Then I should like to welcome the alternative and say that the alternative in this matter is not as positive as the Enhedslisten. The alternative is against this proposal, but the alternative rapporteur is stuck in the European Committee, which meets every Friday. That's why some of us have trouble being both places. We have made a division of labour, and I have thus mentioned what the alternative stands for in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122009	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122012	Thank you for the very positive and also uplifting speech. I fully share the analysis of the threats posed by the major media giants in Denmark, and that is one of them. The reason why we need a language term bank so that we can make sure that we have a professional language on the one hand, of course, but on the other we retain Danish concepts that correspond to the professional languages so that we can understand and talk to each other. That's what this is all about. Because if we do not develop it, Danish will become a common language in the long term, and then we will not have words for everything that is happening in the scientific field, in the technological field and in many other areas. So I fully share the analysis and thank you for that. I noticed one thing, namely that Enhedslisten seems to be missing a single language policy. After all, the Danish People's Party has made several proposals for a Danish language law and a comprehensive Danish language policy. Does this mean that Enhedslisten actually supports it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122121	As far as my old memory tells me, we actually supported the proposal in principle when it was being discussed in this Chamber. So that's definitely what we're gonna do. In relation to the second question, I think it is important to maintain that one thing is, after all, what is of Danish words, while another thing is what is of Danish words being used. These are two different things. For example, you sell. TV 2 for Murdoch or another American company and the only obligation we can get through is that they have to have some news programmes from time to time, so we can risk that an increasingly large part of the area will be met by American series, and I know what makes the language used a different language than the Danish one. Then maybe it's not safe for you to do the basehotel or whatever. This is certainly not something we can decide once we have given it the opportunity to influence it in any way. What does that mean? This means that the language used will be different. We, who are old enough to have children at the age when they have been playing with computers, know that language will also affect people. Then we can say that they can go to a term bank and break up... the President knocks on the table and I stop here, but I think the point is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122251	Thank you for that, sir. Søren Søndergaard. I would like to pay tribute to the cultural and linguistic responsibility of the Enhedslisten in the Chamber today for this proposal. I do not quite think the government is, and I have often seen that it has been uphill when the speech comes in the Danish language. But a great praise to the Enhedslisten for being culturally and linguistically responsible for this proposal. We appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122325-2	Well, we accept praise from anyone, so I'd like to sign for that praise. We also hope that it will be translated into concrete initiatives when we are going to negotiate media reconciliation, so that the clear language policy and the focus on the Danish language will also come through there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122342	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122352	Forgive me for breaking into the rose club, but it is a pleasure to have the floor after such a financially responsible party as the Enhedslisten. It can only be joyful. But I would really like to say and sign that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen often succeeds in setting his finger very precisely on an important area of debate, as is the case here, a small area of language which is well worth paying attention to. Still, it would probably surprise Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, if I now gave my support to the proposal, after we have heard the Minister for Culture, with whom I share the party community. This would probably be the most surprising thing here if I disagreed with the Minister on this issue. So I am not, but that is to say that I also believe it is a necessary and important topic of debate that is being raised here, and a commitment has been given that work will continue on it and a basis will be created at some point in time when we can clarify whether it is precisely a language term bank or some other way in which we can safeguard or safeguard the future of that international development, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard points out. So there is good reason to debate this issue, and even if there is the same thing going on here, as there are often resolutions from the opposition, so that a government always finds an excuse for not supporting it and then you come up with something, I would just like to say that this is actually a quality area on the part of the proposers that is worth discussing. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122527	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122530	It's been a long time since I've heard such an elegant rejection that actually sounds like an endorsement. And I really want to thank you for that. It has been a pleasure to listen to. And I know how things are. What my question is going to be about now, when the rapporteur has rejected it, but strongly advocated that something should be done and that the government support the fact that we are looking more closely at this issue, is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur was talking about, namely a comprehensive language policy. Supports Liberal Alliance's idea that we will have a comprehensive Danish language law and thus also a comprehensive Danish language policy, where among other things. the language term bank can be an element?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122621	So, with the comments that are being made here today, including on the part of the government, I do not believe that the time is right to reject anything in this context. When things are clarified and initiated and we have the opportunity to assess it, I think we should be open to looking at: what is the most appropriate and how do we do it? This proposal refers directly to our neighbouring countries and what they have done. It may be that Denmark must do something quite different and that it must be broader. And that is why I will certainly neither fence nor reject anything today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122649	I think it's getting better and better. That's a good sign. The Minister was somewhat more kindly dismissive than the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. So I think we can have excellent cooperation so that we can push the Minister even further than she might have planned to go. So thank you for the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122705	That is a common pressure, so that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122712	Yes, and sir. Leif Mikkelsen just made one last brief comment. Thank you for your efforts today, sir. Leif Mikkelsen, and welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302122725	I think I will get into the slipstream of the Minister, as I think he said very well, namely: let us examine the need and what is sensible organisational anchoring and funding, etc. When I support it, it is enough because I basically do not quite understand what it is all about, and perhaps that is also where much of our uncertainty lies. What is this, anyway? So, when the Danish People's Party describes it, it says: "... a language termbank, where everyday words and professional terms in both Danish and foreign languages and associated definitions should be recorded in structured databases.....I am well aware that it is not a dictionary, but I still have little difficulty in seeing such overlap with the dictionaries. What is this? Well, everyday Danish terms in a language termbank I don't quite understand it. And it's not really to be critical, but I think it might be nice to have some examples. What are some terms, terms, terms, term is not just a foreign word for a word, or what is not covered today by the existing dictionaries? I think we have the advantage that the rapporteurs have become so accessible. It's often I just look up a word on the web, and then there's both the Nudan Dictionary and all the other dictionaries in the same relation, so you can see how it is included in sentences etc. etc. So I'm just a little groping about what this is, what this is really about. Is it foreign words that come in and that we want to give a Danish expression instead, or what is it about? But my uncertainty should not become a criticism, because it may well be that the Danish People's Party has a point in that it is needed; it might well indicate it when it exists in the other Nordic countries, and when the Danish Language Board has also been positive. So I would just like to give my full support to the Minister's approach, namely that with his official capacity and with the experts to whom they have access, the Minister can go into more detail about this. Then we will certainly not be dismissive. But on this basis we cannot vote in favour, partly because we are still not quite sure what it covers up, partly because we are not quite sure what the sensible organisational anchoring is, what the funding is. I think that when you go down in the remarks, it becomes more and more ambitious, even with hearing-disabled technologies, it suddenly becomes a very, very broad field, and I think at least: well, what kind of funding is needed? It must of course be discussed in relation to what else we use in the field of culture and what might be of other good purposes. So I welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party has put it on the agenda. It sounds as if it is something that might be needed, but we look forward to the Minister and the Ministry being able to go a little deeper into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123014	After all, we have the opportunity to make brief comments, and brief comments can be clarifying. So I give the floor to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123022	Thank you. It is actually very liberating that a rapporteur has a little doubt about what this is really about. I'll try to explain. So, a word like cancer is found in Danish as cancer, and thus there is an everyday word that you can use, and it is quite precisely defined what it means. In these years, a great deal of professional expression and other expressions are rinsing into the Danish language at a rate that simply does not allow us to get Danish professional expression. This is due, among other things, to: also that one no longer writes specialties in Danish, but writes them in English. Therefore, you have no Danish trade term to hang it on. This simply means that Danish no longer exists in the universities in the scientific fields. One uses a word as domain loss, i.e. Danish loses domain in some areas. By having a language termbank one will be able to ensure that Danish still has a domain in the areas where the scientific language is washing over Denmark in the technological field. Of course, this requires precise definitions, so you know what it is, and it also sometimes requires professional work. And it is not certain that you have to find a Danish word for it; it may well be that you choose to take over the English or the other foreign word, but then you have to be exactly in your definition of it when you use it. In short, that is what this is all about. There is also more, but we cannot do that in less than one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123215	I think that was actually quite clarifying. Then I just want to tease back a little and say that you might also find a different expression than domain. I know it's an old foreign word. It is, of course, a development that has always been of our language, but I agree that right now it makes sense, perhaps not to be vigilant, but to be at the forefront of that development. In fact, I also think that it is more a linguistic debate in which the term bank is a means of achieving a different language policy, where we are a little more quick, like the Norwegians, to translate new foreign words that come in or not necessarily translate them, but then give them a Danish expression instead. I think that is also a very exciting discussion. But it was very interesting to hear that perhaps in reality it is the underlying motivation behind this proposal, which I also partly agree with. But perhaps it could become a little clearer that that is the intention. It is not just about mapping the language etc., but also about constantly inventing new Danish expressions that can reflect the development and not least the acquisition of foreign words that affect our time, and probably always have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123343	It is absolutely true that the underlying intention is to have a single language policy, a single Danish language law. We have put forward proposals on this in 2006 and in 2012. This time we thought: why not take the individual elements and put them out and then have a discussion on each element instead of being rejected together? It could be that some of it could be reverberated in the Chamber. So that is absolutely right. We want a single language policy, we want a single Danish language law. I am glad to hear that the Radical Left is also interested in it and in a way supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123421	We are certainly interested in that, but it is a sensitive subject, I was going to say. It's not really in the sense that I think most Danes can support this. I think most people like their mother tongue and want to protect it. But there is also a huge authority in such a bank if it is really about everything that comes from outside, this bank and those who manage it must then translate into the everyday terms that we use, for example. Here on the top of the country's piano chair. So it is also the kind of considerations that I think are really relevant for a ministry to make itself, perhaps also for the Danish People's Party, because it is not just a bank where you register expressions, but in fact also a huge authority that you give to some people. Because it is about the development of our common language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123512	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123528	Thank you for the proposal from the Danish People's Party. I have very much sympathy for it. I myself am very conservative when it comes to language and am very much opposed to the renewal of our language in the form of the many Anglicisms sneaking into the language. I think that as an external lecturer at Copenhagen Business College, I am probably the only one who still calls it Copenhagen Business College instead of CBS. I am opposed to changing the spelling of Aarhus in order to please the English language. I think it's ugly when you say win-win, or when you say team instead of team. My favorite version is probably when people say Agenda instead of saying Agenda, which means exactly the same thing. So I have very much sympathy for the aim of the motion for a resolution, namely to safeguard the Danish language well and to avoid the use of a lot of foreign words which are unnecessary. There is no need to use foreign expressions when we have terms in Danish that cover exactly the same thing. I also think it is an intellectual and linguistic poverty if you do so. It is a sign that one does not master one's own mother tongue well enough if one falls into a lot of foreign terms. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has indicated that further work will be done on the matter. That will then be the line we will be supporting. But perhaps I also miss a bit in the proposal here that there should be a real demand in the institutions for such a term bank. If this is to work, it should be something that they also want, rather than it being something that we are pushing down on them. However, I think this is a good initiative and we would like to continue working in this direction without, however, supporting the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123716	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123720	Thank you, too, for the very kind rejection that sounded like support, but that means, of course, that the Conservatives can take the Liberal Alliance in hand and, to that extent, the Left too, when the Minister has something to do. It's always good. I would just like to continue with the clarification of what else it can be used for, for example. developing knowledge and language technology tools, which can benefit both private and public companies, including the large multinational companies, which often use the language, but if they do not have precise definitions, and if they do not have Danish words, they use their own and translate them, and thus they influence Danish in the wrong direction. So we can, of course, use this tool to influence the agenda of the big companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123810	It would also be good if it could sneak into the language of companies that also operate abroad. It would be good to have an agenda in that area. There is much in the business world too, perhaps especially because they operate a lot with foreign partners, tending to sneak a lot of English terms into the language. I do not think that we are going to be able to dictate how the language should be in the companies, but it does not hurt anything to try to set an agenda to safeguard the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123856	The rapporteur made it very clear in his speech that he supports the work of language policy. Sir. Søren Søndergaard mentioned that we actually lack a comprehensive language policy, a Danish language law, and I would like to put the same question to Mr Søndergaard. Rasmus Jarlov, whether the Conservatives also think that we should work towards a comprehensive language policy that can be translated into a Danish language law, such as: the language term bank could be a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123924	I think it would be sensible to have a language policy, that is absolutely certain. I think that we need to have it debated more and, as I have said, we cannot immediately support the idea of a language term bank, but we are pleased that we can continue to work with a view to getting something more to remind us of a clear language policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302123954	There are no more questions... not if we have to comply with the rules... at least. Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then I welcome the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124010	Thank you, President. It started a bit uphill with the Minister's speech, as it usually does when you are in Danish language and language politics, because it is usually rejected with a lot of nice words. However, during the negotiations and in the context of the rapporteur's speeches, it was actually warmer and warmer. From Søren Søndergaard's actually very positive support for the proposal, but of course with amendments, and I have heard what was said, to Mr. Søndergaard. Leif Mikkelsen's very fine and elegant rejection and further on the partial support of the Radical Left. So it was actually quite okay. I also hope that the Minister has heard what interest there is among the rapporteurs in doing something, including that we get some kind of language term bank when the professionals have spoken. After all, it is a strong wish of the Language Board and has been for many years, and it is not just something I have made up. Over the years, I have spoken with the Danish Language Board, especially after I took over the baton from Søren Krarup, who, after all, tabled the first motion for a resolution on a Danish language law in 2006, which I saw moderated in 2012. So that's something we've been working on for a long time. I think it was a little disappointing that the Socialists stepped in and almost as usual are tempted to say, because this was also done in the motion for a resolution on the linguistic technology committee until the Minister, who is sitting in the Chamber, said at a hearing: of course we should set up a linguistic technology committee. The Socialists then turned on a plate, and now suddenly they thought it was a good idea. I can, of course, hope that, once the Board of Languages and the Terms of Reference and the Minister have finished and become wiser, the Socialists will stop treading and decide what they want. It's a big party, 47 seats, and you could be a little clearer in this area. Many of the rapporteurs have been quite brave, and one government rapporteur said in a negative way that this is a good proposal. The Social Democrats can get a little braver. I would also like to congratulate Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur once again. Søren Søndergaard, for the fine speech and for the analysis of the threats to the Danish language, and it is quite obvious that it is among other things. come from the big multinationals. But I think they are actually interested in getting help, and that is why the establishment of the language technology committee is important, while the creation of a language thermobank would help them in their work. After all, they are dependent on consumers, including Danish consumers, and if we give them the opportunity to use these tools, they will also use them. I would also like to thank you for the cautious commitment that a comprehensive Danish language policy and possibly a Danish language law could be a good thing. This is a small breakthrough compared with recent years, and I hope that we will be able to follow it up at a later stage. That would be nice, for dear friends, it's urgent. There is one thing that puzzled me a little, and it was when Enhedslisten said that the alternative was against the language term bank. I remember that a few weeks ago we had a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party on language centres in universities where the alternative itself talked about the usefulness of having a language term bank. Now they are so against, so I do not quite understand what is going on in this party, but I am not going to load the Enhedslisten for that. You don't have to kill the messenger. Overall, of course, it is disappointing that the Minister has not been able to support the proposal, but it is encouraging that it will be part of the mandate and, of course, I look forward to seeing the wordings from the mandate and also the work that the Language Board is going to do in connection with the language term bank, and I hope that we can find a majority in order to get it set up, because there is a reason why other countries in the Nordic countries have found it necessary. It's not something you do for fun, but because you think it's important. And that's how we could honor H.C. Ørsted. He is the reason why we have a thousand Danish names on scientific terms. We don't say oxygen in Denmark, we say oxygen, and this is due, among other things, to. H.C. Ørsted. He was the first living language term bank before there was something called language termbank. Let us learn from the old and then look forward in time. It's always good. Thank you for your efforts, thank you for the good speeches and partly positive commitments from individual rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124538	You're welcome. And it gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124542	Yes, because it is quite true that I cannot explain why the alternative is against the proposal in its present form. It may be some details, or it may be some big things. The alternative must, of course, explain this in the course of the committee procedure. One of the reasons why we think it would be a very good idea to have a debate on a language policy and a language policy is, of course, that there have really been some disagreements. I mean, for example. It was clear from the proposal made by the Danish People's Party in 2006 that there were some very significant things that we did not agree with. However, this should not prevent agreement from being reached that there should be a language policy... whether there should be a law is another matter... which is also a guideline for public institutions etc. And we would very much like to work with the Danish People's Party to promote this. I just have one question: whether to assess what this is going to cost. It is not in the proposal, but is there an assessment, or is it something that we should botanaise a little more during the committee procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124647	This depends very much on the extent to which the language term bank should be. And that is why we have deliberately not written what it will cost in concrete terms. And, of course, I hope that the Language Board will come back with an estimate of what it will cost. Well, what I've heard is about 3 million. I can't vouch for that, but it's a little bit of an estimate that I can't vouch for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124716	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124720	This is not a polemical question, but rather a question of curiosity, because I myself am a little unanswered about where I stand. But if one of the main intentions with this language termbank is to make Danish expressions for the foreign expressions that cross the border, then it is in some way a break with a Danish language tradition, where we do have an authority called the Danish Language Board, which is also a board where you usually lie down with the spoken language. So where it is, so to speak, the authority that picks up and says: Now this is being used by so many people in this way, and then we have to acknowledge it. And this is a completely new approach, you might say, if there's going to be a selection of experts and at the forefront of inventing these terms. I don't know what I think of it myself, but I'd just like to hear a reflection about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124813	That is a very interesting question. The crucial thing is to intervene before it becomes the spoken language. If the language has only become part of the spoken language, it is difficult to change. But before it comes out, it is very good that professionals have looked at it and may find a similar expression in Danish that ordinary people can use. I think that is actually very good and that is why we really need a language policy. I wonder whether we should not join forces in the Committee on Culture and perhaps call a hearing, the aim of which is to draw up a Danish language policy and a Danish language law. I also heard the Radical Left show interest in this, so that we could learn more about all this. I sense curiosity from everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124906	In fact, I thought we had introduced a procedure in which we did not have to ask again. But I do not want to ask again, but just agree with that part and say that we would really like to take part in it. We think this is an exciting discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124923	That's absolutely excellent. Then we'd better do something, and then we could invite the minister over.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124926	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for today's efforts. No one else wanted to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302124944	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125006	Thank you. The resolution here aims to strengthen art education across the country by increasing the state cofinancing of the art academies in Aarhus and Odense. The proposal obliges the government to re-prioritize state support for art education in a way that would result in a total of 4 million. kr. from the state operating grant to the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts Image Schools is awarded as a grant to the Danish Academy of Fine Arts and the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, with effect from 1 January 2019. I should like to start by stating that I fully share the wishes and intentions of the authors of the motion for a resolution to strengthen artistic education throughout the country. This is among other things. Therefore, in the autumn of 2017, I have set in motion a work in which the rectors of the artistic educational institutions are to prepare their proposals for concrete actions, opportunities for cooperation and common solutions to the problems that exist. The aim is, after all, to strengthen the artistic education sector. This is an ambition that I think it is absolutely necessary to have. Both the state educational institutions and the self-serving educational institutions, as well as the self-serving educational institutions, are located in Aarhus and Odense, while here in Copenhagen it is a state educational institution. In this context, it has expressed an interest in working together to strengthen their educational activities. This also applies to the Academy of Fine Arts and the two independent art academies in Aarhus and Odense. In the process that is now under way, they are discussing, among other things: ways in which they can ensure cooperation, better knowledge sharing and investment in the knowledge base of education, their cooperation in managing administrative tasks and also measures to improve the opportunities of artistic graduates for employment and to create an economically sustainable life with their art. Out of respect for the process which is therefore under way right now, when the rectors themselves are participating, I would like to give them the opportunity to work quietly while the work is going on. I would therefore like to await the results of the work that will be available during the spring before taking a position on any concrete action in the field of education. I can therefore say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125242	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125246	That is disappointing, I would say to the Minister. After all, the government spends a lot of resources on moving state jobs from the capital into the country, but as soon as it comes to art and culture, it's as if you're being handy. For example: Our proposal to abolish the State Arts Foundation and make regional art funds has not been a good idea for the Minister. And now you don't think it's a good idea to strengthen the art academies in Odense and Aarhus by taking some money from the Academy in Copenhagen. Why, in fact, do we have the handshake against the area of culture when it comes to the relocation of state jobs and state resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125332	This isn't really an expression of hand shyness. One can, of course, disagree with how to prioritise and at what times to prioritise. If people are asked to do preparatory work for some general measures, general improvements, then I think it would be a kind of disrespect in the middle of that process to say that we are now moving some funds from one place to another before we have seen what proposals they are making and what proposals they are also seeking to move forward, which involve some other political priorities. So it is actually an expression of respect for the work process that is in progress. This was also the case in the previous motion for a resolution. That is the general approach I have to it. Of course, you can disagree with that. In addition, although the motion for a resolution was implemented as it stands here, it moved 4 million. kr. from Copenhagen to Odense and to Aarhus, I am not quite sure that it can solve the challenges that exist. So I would like to look at things in a single whole and, in the first place, complete the work that is already under way. So it's not hand-shadowing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125450	If I understand the Minister correctly, she will wait for the process, and when it is finished, one could easily imagine that funds were transferred to these art institutions in Aarhus and Odense, and even more funds if it were to prove necessary in order to have the quality that the Minister wants. Is this how I understand it, that the Minister is actually kicking it to the corner, but overall is positive about moving funds out of the capital to these two art institutions when the work is finished?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125529	What I am concerned about is increasing quality, and this applies to both Copenhagen, Aarhus and Odense, or even where you choose to have artistic educational institutions. The structure of that can of course be discussed at any time. I am not sure that it is a good idea to also increase the quality of the art courses you have here in Copenhagen, to move resources from here and elsewhere. It may turn out to be a good idea. I do not wish to rule out anything in advance, but I would just like to say that, as a starting point, I think it is necessary to know that the state educational institutions are fully funded by the state. And it is therefore another form of organisation that is, in the programmes in Aarhus and Odense, because it is self-serving institutions, and thus there is also local cofinancing. This does not mean that the state cannot co-finance in Odense and in Aarhus, and we are already doing so, but if we are to shift resources from one state cultural education to two others, we must at least have described the consequences that will have for the education programmes that are here in Copenhagen. So that is basically what is behind it. I do not want to rule out anything, nor do I want to agree with anything at this stage. I think this is a relevant discussion, but let us now wait for the work that is going on at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125652	Then we thank the Minister for today's work and turn to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125709	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, Dansk Folkeparti proposes increased state cofinancing of the art academies in Aarhus and Odense at the expense of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts schools in Copenhagen. The proposal will mean that 4 million will be re-priorityd. kr. annually from the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen to the art academies in Aarhus and Odense. The aim of the proposal is, in fact, good, because there is no doubt that the art academies in both Aarhus and Odense are doing a good job in creating good, professional artistic environments to ensure training opportunities in the field across the country. It is important that there is an opportunity around Denmark to improve within its artistic talent and live out its potential. It is certainly a work that deserves recognition. In relation to the motion for a resolution, there is therefore reason to support the objective, namely strong artistic education also in Odense and Aarhus. At the same time, it must be noted that we in the Social Democratic Party do not consider the proposed means to be reasonable. Firstly, the Danish People's Party, together with the government, is behind the re-priority contribution and the savings in the field of culture. The re-priority contribution means that from 2016 several hundreds of millions of kroner have been saved in the cultural field, and the savings have also hit the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen. That is why it seems rather strange to propose that an educational institution which is already subject to savings should now save much more and even more. Secondly, as you know, work is currently being done on the future structure of artistic education, as the Minister also mentioned, and therefore it does not really make sense to take decisions here and now on proposals that have come in the form of a motion for a resolution such as this one concerning the structure of artistic education. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should say hello from the SF and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125917	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125923	The rapporteur says that the objective is good, but the means are not so good. My question is: what means will the Social Democrats use to strengthen artistic education in Aarhus and Odense when they do not want to take it from Copenhagen? How will they be strengthened, including financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302125948	You could start by dropping this re-priority contribution, which has led to huge savings and which has also affected artistic education, so that would be a first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130002	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130005	After all, we are talking about peppers when it comes to these artistic programmes in Aarhus and Copenhagen, and it is of course everyone who benefits. If we are talking about these two artistic educations in Aarhus and Odense, how will the Social Democrats strengthen them when it is not to be done, as we have proposed? What is the means of strengthening them financially? How do you want to do that? Are we just gonna park the re-priority contribution? It is, after all, relatively small in relation to what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130041	Now I think I gave an answer before, but I can also try to give another answer. I believe that such a proposal with the intention, which is good in so many ways, is better suited to a negotiating room with all the thoroughness of decision-making, analysis of the consistency and involvement of the institutions that are affected and such things than it is suitable for a quick debate here in the Parliament, where you have 30 seconds to answer the question. So it would be my suggestion that the Danish People's Party, if you have such wishes, brings it into a negotiating room where it can be dealt with much more thoroughly, look at the consequences far more than is possible here and beyond what can be read from the relatively brief remarks that the Danish People's Party itself has written to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130133	It turned out to be 40 seconds, but we're gonna say thank you to Mr. Knox. Daniel Toft Jakobsen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130144	Thank you. The motion for a resolution B 70 provides for a major state co-financing of the art academies in Aarhus and Odense by re-prioritising the state support for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, located in Copenhagen. The proposal follows on from a debate on the general allocation of grants between the art schools in Denmark and following the debate on the merger of artistic education in the autumn. As a state institution, the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts has a number of tasks in the fields of communication, artistic development and research. The Royal Academy of Fine Arts and the Royal Academy of Fine Arts are self-owned institutions and largely supported by local authorities. This means, among other things, that the two art academies are not obliged to comply with the agreements and requirements that follow when you are a state-owned institution. That is why another bag of money comes with it from the state to the self-serving institutions. In fact, I fully share the proposers' desire to strengthen artistic education throughout the country, but out of respect for the work launched by the Minister for Culture in autumn 2017, we cannot support this proposal, at least not now. In fact, there is work going on in which artistic education draws up its proposals on how we can strengthen education. They must be able to complete that, and I look forward to seeing the outcome of that work and will then make the decision as to how the Left feels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130325	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130326	Thank you. As far as I remember, the rapporteur has been elected in the Aarhus area. I assume that the locally elected MP has also had a conversation with the Aarhus institution about this. I understand that Mrs Britt Baker agrees with the intention, but will await the outcome of the work undertaken by the Minister. When it is over, the rapporteur is then willing to find some money to strengthen artistic education, among other things. Aarhus, so they get better, because the money is quite crucial to whether the quality of an education is high enough? Will the rapporteur help to find some money, possibly at the Copenhagen Academy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130423	Now this isn't just about Aarhus, because I'm elected in Aarhus. I represent the Left today, and therefore I worry as much about the institution that lies in Odense as about the one that lies in Aarhus, as well as I do that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, elected in Odense, cares as much about it in Aarhus as about it in Odense. Let's just step up a little bit over that local parish policy. But yes, for me it's crucial not to find the money. What is crucial is that we strengthen the artistic environment, and we must be sure that if we move money from Copenhagen to the other two institutions, we will actually strengthen the quality of the whole of Denmark. We must also consider that this is a small environment, and that is why it is sometimes the case that it makes better sense to center it than to spread it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130513	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130514	It was quite an announcement, however, that you want to centralise! In other areas, the Left Government will move out jobs without having a prior analysis of whether it is worthwhile. After all, it is done for the sake of coherence. Now the rapporteur says that it might as well be to centralise these artistic educations. How on earth is that connected? Has the Left now become a centralization party? Are we not in favour of the relocation of jobs when it comes to culture and art?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130553	That's definitely not what I said. What I said was that if we are going to redistribute, we need to make sure that we do not spread this into too thin a layer. There's already an institution in Odense. It's working. There's one in Aarhus, it's working. It is possible that it makes sense to move from Copenhagen to the specific institutions. I will not deny that, but I will wait for the work that is going on at the moment. And if it turns out that we are spreading too thin and thus losing some quality, then I would also be allowed to be cautious in doing so, even if that would mean that nothing was moved to my own area and even if that would mean that nothing would be moved to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's own area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130637	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302130646	After all, I was very much in favour of the last proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. I have to admit, I can't quite be here. In other words, it is possible that there is a thorough preparatory work behind the proposal, but then I just don't think that this is clear from the comments that have been made, to put it bluntly. Because the proposal, in its simplicity, is to transfer 4 million. kr. of the State grant to the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen to the Funen and Jutland Academy of Fine Arts, which has a different status. And immediately it sounds very simple, and from the Enhedslisten side we support the move of educational institutions throughout the country. In other words, we are in favour of there being educational establishments throughout the country. And we look with wonder at the policy that has been implemented for many years, for example. has terminated teacher seminars, etc. and has concentrated it all in major cities. But the question is, is it that simple in this matter? We get, for example. the same out of 4 million. kr. relocated to Aarhus and Odense, as we do in Copenhagen? Or can this proposal really mean a total cut in artistic output with negative consequences for the whole country? We're gonna have to take a look at that. Because it's not just that you can say that a crown is worth no matter where it's used. Then you could take, I don't know, $50,000. And put them on Bornholm. Then something has been done for Bornholm. That is not the case; there are synergies, there are obligations, there are requirements, there are all kinds of things. You have to have an assessment of that before you make this decision. Otherwise, we could say: why only 4 million. kr.? I mean, why not $8 million? kr.? I mean, it could be tempting to trump Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen and Dansk Folkeparti and say 8 million. kr. to Aarhus and Odense. And why only Aarhus and Odense? I mean, all too often, South Jutland, let alone the South Seas, is not taken along. It is very often Odense and Aarhus when we talk about moving things out. So why not them? I would like to say that the arguments are simply lacking. It may be that they are there, but they do not appear in the comments, they are simply missing. Therefore, the proposal seems a little like a symbolic proposal, that is to say that you show your good will to move something out and then you think of a number and then mention it without the argument being clear. These arguments can, of course, be put into committee, and we will also be sensitive to them, because this is not a principle we are talking about here. However, on this basis we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131001	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131004	After all, it is always a pleasure to discuss culture and art policy with Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Should I understand that if the Danish People's Party gets better at arguing about why we think we should take some of the funds from the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen and move them to Aarhus and Odense to strengthen them, Enhedslisten would be able to support this, so if we get better at explaining why we want it? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131035-2	Yes, that is, if there is evidence, maybe not, but it can be made likely that the artistic output is what we are talking about, we are not doing artistic training for regional development support, we are doing art education for the sake of artistic outputs, we can be the same or greater by putting out some more things, we are positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131103	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131104	That is a clear answer. The Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen today receives 48 million. kr. That's 15 times more than Aarhus, it's 15 times more than Odense. It goes without saying that when you have so much more money to do well, you can hire better teachers, you can attract better artists, you can invest more in education. So the intention is the simple to strengthen the programmes in Aarhus and Odense by giving them some more money, so that there will be a better balance between Aarhus and Odense on the one hand and Copenhagen on the other. At least that was the intention. I do not know whether that is enough to convince the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131145	No, because that is not an argument; it is a little think of a number. Why not 8 million? kr.? That would be even better. And the fact is that it has to be linked to the obligations, the areas in which you operate, the synergies you work with, the other institutions nearby. There are a lot of things to think about, and I have to admit that I think that some of this debate about moving out has become somewhat populist for me. I have to say. I was completely opposed to the municipal reform that was implemented because it meant centralisation, but when people are not Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen makes suggestions that the Danish Parliament should be relocated and something like that, it is unspeakable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131233	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, there are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131245	Thank you. If you look at the table, which is in the comments here on the motion for a resolution by Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti, it's natural to think that there's an incredible bias in these numbers. This is the case both in the state appropriations and in the municipal appropriations. The Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen has to do with the rest of the money, so if you look at it, there is good reason to consider whether it has the right distribution, which may also just be historically determined or come out of what it has come out of, perhaps that there was an art academy, and then we should say, more locally on Funen and in Aarhus established something, however with a different structure. That is why, of course, one could say that it is of course of interest to a couple of municipalities mentioned here in the proposal to have an art academy, and that is why the municipal funds are available. There we can then note that Copenhagen obviously does not have the same interest in supporting an art academy, because it could, in fact, quickly balance what is being said about moving. That's why it could be a signal. Then there is also what we can see in other contexts that Copenhagen is not a poor municipality. If you want to contribute to perhaps maintaining some institutions, you might well imagine that they might think that it was an idea, and otherwise you might even show them the table here, which could then correct some of the bias, which is rightly pointed out. In fact, I agree that thinking the whole country into it is the right thing to do. Having said that, there is work going on, it is of course clear that we cannot simply adopt this proposal which, you might say, comes in from the side and obliges the government to do something that is not in sync with what has been prepared. That is why, of course, we cannot support the proposal as it stands. But the imbalance here will attract attention, even when the Minister gets the results from the work being done. Then, in that light, you have to look at whether something can be changed or something else can be done. In this respect, I would like to be very careful that the government is doing something, and that is why the proposal is rejected, regardless of the good that can be said about it, even though it is well known and now Mr. Søren Søndergaard close to the fact that as soon as something is proposed as a fugitive, there are all kinds of arguments against losing treatment time, and I do not know what you lose if you move something. So in any case, those who need to be moved have many good arguments for that not to happen. I guess it's the same with money, so I don't always buy it. Many airy remarks come out at such a time, but we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131538	A brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131540	Thank you. I just have to get it right: once the work that the government and the minister have started is completed, one is actually quite positive about creating a different and better distribution, so there is a balance between the capital and Odense/Aarhus in artistic education. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131602	We agree that a redistribution that could strengthen artistic education throughout Denmark is at any time worth considering if this one is as crooked as it seems to be, depending on what it is for work that is going on in different places. And that's what's going to happen. That is the basis for assessing. I'm sure there are big differences. If the differences are so great that it is also appropriate for those spoken here, then nothing should be moved. That is why it is not an undertaking that we will do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131626	Mr Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Leif Mikkelsen and move on to Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131637	Thank you. There is no doubt that we have some great institutions in Copenhagen, Odense and Aarhus. Last week I visited the academy in Aarhus for more information on how they work with students, how they work with other educational institutions and about the art environment in Aarhus. After all, it is a fantastic piece of work and they are under financial pressure. Therefore, only immediately, when you read the proposal, can you nod yes to a major state cofinancing of the academics in Aarhus and Odense. But what you just see is that the title could also have been: motion for a resolution to weaken the state funding of the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen. After all, we do not get better art education by committing cultural cannibalism and by cutting down so massively on an educational institution that is already under pressure to give more money to Aarhus and Odense. That is simply the wrong way to deal with this. Instead, the Danish People's Party should go in and say: How can we strengthen the arts educations in Denmark? That's what you've chosen not to do. Instead of weakening education in Copenhagen. We think this is the wrong way to go. At the same time, we must take care of that, as several others have also said, because it is different institutions that work in different ways and have different roles. It does not do that I would like to stress that we do not believe that there is a need for greater funding of the education programmes in Aarhus and Odense. However, the three educational institutions cannot be equated. They are very different and work in different ways, and they shouldn't have three identical art courses in Denmark. No, we're going to have some fantastic institutions in the different cities. So we do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131845	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131847	If you look at the table in the motion for a resolution, you can see that in Odense the municipality pays about half and the state the other half, and in Aarhus it is the state that pays a third and the municipality pays two thirds. If we go to Copenhagen, then it's zero-zero-zero-zero. Everything is being paid by the state. If it is, we choose to take 4 million. kr. from the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen and move them out, so it allows the City of Copenhagen to contribute. Then they can come with the 4 million. kr. This would then be equivalent to a 10% contribution from the municipality. and not a third or half. Isn't that really fair? Then it is no longer cultural cannibalism, but solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302131937	If you take the logic, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen comes with us, who says that you should not also cut the municipalities where you give the money. This is simply the wrong way to go. We have to say from the state what we want to support and what we want from education. And then you have to go in and find funding for it. To start doing such a poker game with the municipalities and say that well then we take 4 million. kr. There, and then they probably give them, is the wrong way. And then we give them to two others, and then who says that Aarhus doesn't remove part of their support. So I simply think that is the totally, completely wrong way. I very, very much agree that we need to strengthen these educations financially, but I simply think that this is the totally, completely wrong approach to the task that the Danish People's Party is taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132019	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132020	How will the Alternative find the money to strengthen the programmes in Aarhus and Odense when you do not want to find them at the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132036	I am happy to send the Alternative's proposal to the Finance Act, in which we will strengthen culture by one billion. kr., so there's just money for these things. We have just fully funded how we do it and how we create new funds for culture and not always believe that we get more culture by cutting some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132050	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132057	Thank you. We would like to take part in looking at the overall organisation and also the financing of artistic education and thereby also the balance between the capital and the rest of the country, but I think it is a work that calls for a more thorough analysis than a motion for a resolution such as this, which simply transfers money from one institution to two others, which, moreover, only has the same subject matter in common, but it is also different training with different tasks. Nor do I think it is quite fair at the very short notice if it should be implemented from 1 January 2019. This will have quite major consequences also for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, so I do not think it is a fair way to do it, but we welcome the analysis and the work being done by the Minister, and one of the perspectives we ourselves want is the balance between the capital and the rest of the country, but it must of course also be balanced in relation to the fact that there are some institutions that are special, several of them are located in our capital. The Royal Theatre, too. There are some institutions that are located in a capital and thus get something extra. It is clear that it must be seen in relation to all the other education programmes, but we do not want to be involved in such a hero per year. automatics-setting that all that for those who have special privileges in Copenhagen must be tampered with from them and sent to the province. It is quite clear that we want to contribute to a better balance, and it may also be that there are things that you can move from Copenhagen or where you can make a different balance, but we have seen a trend that has not only been in this area. We also saw it in connection with the district orchestras, which of course are slightly different, where money was transferred from the Sjælland Symphony Orchestra to patch a hole that has arisen in some of the other district orchestras. We do not think that is a fair way of doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132304	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132307	It is fair enough that we do not agree with the funding, but agree with the intention. How, then, will the Radicals finance a financial strengthening of education in Aarhus and Odense in the artistic field?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132323	I can't answer that. This is something we need to investigate. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has made a proposal. I do not have one today, but that is why I welcome the Minister's work. It may well be that a new structure or a new financing model can provide a solution for the two institutions, or that there are some tasks that can be removed or moved somewhere from and to the institutions with some money. I can't figure that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132348	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132350	But wasn't it about time you sat down and found out where you would find the money when you said you wanted to strengthen the artistic education in Aarhus and Odense? We say we can find them in Copenhagen, and then we can move them out. The Radical Left says they do not agree with that. Does it not call for the money to be assigned somewhere instead of just waiting for the government to which you are opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132417	I also assume that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen will be my answer if I return the question and ask: What does Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen then do to fill the gap that this exercise will leave in the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts? I'm not guessing that sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has actually dealt with what that hole will mean, because it's just about moving money from Copenhagen to Aarhus and Odense, but if you had to be fair and proper here, you'd go in and find out what that hole is that will be left behind. What are some tasks that will not be solved? That's where I think sir. Alex Ahrendtsen owes me an answer, just as much as I owe him an answer, because there is apparently a hole, but whether it is in one place or another, we have to find a solution to it, and there we are both guilty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132503	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132519	Conservatives cannot support the resolution. We think it lacks evidence as to why money should be moved from Copenhagen to the other two art academies. I think this is a bit in the slipstream of a generally quite unspeakable debate that is currently running on the distribution between the parts of Denmark, and one can have different views on that. You may be allowed to fight for certain parts of the country if you think you have some particular focus. If you want to pick up voters in certain parts of the country, you must of course be allowed to do so, but I would urge you to stay on the path of objectivity. When we propose to move around between parts of the country, it must have something to do with what is overall reasonable, more than just conducting some sort of distribution policy, which will take account of some parts of the country, at the expense of the capital at the moment. So we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132616	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132617	It doesn't have any evidence? The Academy of Fine Arts receives 48.2 million state crowns a year, and none from the City of Copenhagen. The Academy in Odense gets 1.4 million. kr. from the state and spears themselves up to 1.7 million. kr. In Aarhus you pay 2.3 million. and gets 1 million. kr. from the state. Is there not evidence of a slightly better distribution on the basis of these figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132647	I don't see that there should be based on those numbers. It depends on how many students you have and how much activity you have and how else the economy is around. After all, no one says that the art academies in Odense and Aarhus should be as large as that in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132704	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132715	So the Conservative People's Party does not support the government's efforts to achieve a better balance in Denmark by among other things. to move jobs out and move funds from the capital into the country? Is that how I should understand the rapporteur's answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132720	No, what was said was that we do not support the Danish People's Party's motion here, which we do not think is objectively justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132727	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302132746	Thank you, President. There have been some accusations that it is not factual and that it is not properly worked out and there have been more questions than there have been answers. Well, the facts are in the figures, and the figures are quite factual. The Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen receives over 48 million state crowns, and it is clear that if you take 4 million. kr. from the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen and distributes them out, it will mean fewer admissions, and it will also mean layoffs. Obviously, it goes without saying when you need 4 million. kr. Our intention is then to convince the City of Copenhagen that they will have to be baptized. What is the factual argument for this? One is that Copenhagen spends far fewer crowns per year. population to culture than most municipalities. Well, they're pretty low. They're just above Hedensted. The second argument is that Odense and Aarhus are spearing. In Odense you pay 50%, and in Aarhus about a third. Then I know that there is a difference between ownership: the Academy of Fine Arts is a state organisation, while the other two are self-serving, but these are some technical things that you can work with. You can easily turn the art academies in Aarhus and Odense into state and then give them some more money so that there will be a better balance. So to come and say that there is no evidence of the matter, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov argues is actually very thin. I also think it is rather thin on the part of the Conservatives that we do not recognise that there is also a need for more balance in the field of art and culture in Denmark. That is also an objective objection. If this isn't a matter of fact, sir... Rasmus Jarlov after all the government's efforts to balance Denmark in other areas. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Then I also think that social democracy is once again failing and has no answer to the challenges that are in Denmark. You agree with the objective, but you do not agree with the means, and that is fair enough. But you don't want to point out a means for yourself. There is no proposal, even if it was tried to get it from the Social Democrat rapporteur. Maybe the only thing he could think of was dropping his priorities. But it is, of course, peppers in relation to the funds that the municipality and the state give to Odense and Aarhus. 2% of just under 4 million. kr. So it doesn't give much. That is nowhere near what we are proposing, which is 4 million. kr. Overall. So that is not good enough, dear Social Democrats. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Left has left. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Søren Søndergaard asked: Why not 8 million? kr.? That's a good question. The reason we have chosen 4 million. kr. Overall, we estimate that the City of Copenhagen will immediately find 4 million. kr. To cover that hole. That is why we have chosen 4 million. kr. It could easily be said that it was supposed to be 8 million. kr., but it would be a little hard for the municipality, I think, and we can't force the municipalities to pay. We cannot do that, then, and we cannot force Aarhus or Odense to continue with local co-financing for the sake of local self-government. That is why we have chosen what we have chosen. The alternative talks about cultural cannibalism and that we will weaken Copenhagen. But Copenhagen weakens itself culturally, not investing in culture on the part of the municipality, and the rapporteur is shaking his head down there, but it is true that the figures show it. Go to Elsinore where they use approx. 1,700 kr. per residents, while in Copenhagen you use approx. 750 kroner. per citizen. In Odense and Aarhus it is over 1,000 DKK, it is about 1,100-1,200 DKK. per people you spend on culture, or is it Odense and Aalborg? You can't just put me on it. But Copenhagen and Frederiksberg are simply glittering, and this is because the state pays many of the funds for culture. So Copenhagen cannibalise itself, and I really thought it was a bit relaxed by the Alternative's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, not to answer how to finance a possible strengthening of the art academies in Aarhus and Odense. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist referred to a financial bill. However, I am not so clever that I have in my mind the proposal of the Alternative Finance Act in the field of culture. There, therefore, we need to be a little more specific out of respect for the rapporteur's questions. I would like to say to the Radical Left, but I have actually answered that it will result in fewer entries if we remove 4 million. kr. We are well aware of this, and that is why it is so crucial that Copenhagen shows solidarity with the rest of the country in the field of culture and does not use the Folketing and the state as a parish box to pay for everything you do not want. So it just doesn't work out in the long run if we want to have a balance in the field of culture as well. There is no reason why we should drain Funen and Jutland for artists, so they go to Copenhagen. We need artists to stay in the area, get an education in Aarhus and Odense and then settle in those places. If they have first moved to Copenhagen, it is therefore difficult for them to return. We know that. We also know that strong art academies create artistic environments, and when there are artistic environments, there is therefore a greater chance that artists will stay there. That is why it makes good sense and a better balance in this area too. I hope, of course, that when the Minister finishes his analysis, the rapporteurs will join some form of strengthening of the art academies in Aarhus and Odense. Thank you for an otherwise excellent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133428	There are a few brief comments, and that is first, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133432	First of all, I must say again that it is then a weakening of the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen to take 4 million. kr. from them. Well, then, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen makes it a municipal policy issue all of a sudden, but we are not the ones who run municipal finances from here. So if 4 million is removed... kr. from the Academy of Fine Arts, The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, then you weaken it. Period. What I'd like to ask was something that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said at the beginning, and that was that you can always turn them into state institutions. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party believes that we should go in and turn the self-serving institutions, the Academy of Fine Arts in Odense and Aarhus, into state institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133517	We could, of course, if they retain their independence, because that is what we have in the field of the Academy. They are state-owned in Aarhus, Aalborg, Odense and Copenhagen, and they are self-employed. This could also be done here, and perhaps the money could be found in Copenhagen. And yes, it is a weakening of the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen if we take 4 million. kr. I have said that several times, and of course it is. But Copenhagen must be solidarity, and they are not today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133546	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133548	I really just find it interesting to talk to the institutions we are talking about, and as the Danish People's Party now points out we can just turn into state institutions, because the whole nature of, for example, the Jutland Academy of Fine Arts in Aarhus is to be a self-serving institution; you work in a different way, so it's not just to turn into a state institution, because it creates some changes for those institutions. I think that is worth bringing before you say that we can do that, because that is a big change for an institution. And again I must say that I think it is a pity not only to deal with what the proposal says, namely that the money will be removed from the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen. Then we can start with all these municipal discussions, but I just think they're irrelevant to what it is we choose to support from the state, which is what we decide in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133634	I replied very directly to a question about whether they could not be made state. Yes, you can if you want. It was the rapporteur himself who brought it up. And it is not irrelevant to involve the municipal community when Aarhus and Odense contribute significantly to the running of their art academies, while Copenhagen does not cook here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133655	The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133659	The problem is that you can't take this discussion without taking the story with you. So, who has decided that an institution should be set up in Copenhagen, and who has decided to set up one in Aarhus? After all, the money must also follow the decisions. So I'm gonna have to tell mr. Alex Ahrendtsen: Okay, now a small loft was lifted from where the 4 million. kr. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, They came from the fact that it was the Danish People's Party's opinion that Copenhagen could pay well. Yeah, that's where we're gonna hear Copenhagen about what they think. And we also need a guarantee from the Danish People's Party that this is the last time a proposal is made that money should be taken from Copenhagen. Because maybe Copenhagen can pay 4 million. kr., we may agree on that, but what if it's about all sorts of other institutions and Copenhagen also has to pay something more? In other words, there are simply too many unknowns in this proposal, and I would urge that the work of the committee should see to it that it is corrected so that we can take the discussion on a more real basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133805	It is quite true that the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen is located in Copenhagen for historical reasons, established by the King, since taken over by the state. But since then there has been an interest in art and art in the rest of the country, and it should not hurt them that they have come a little later. Copenhagen is a rich municipality, and they can afford this. I think it is a little pauvert that the City of Copenhagen will not help to lift solidarity, but will make the state pay for part of the cultural activities in the capital. You can just go in and look at the key figures, because then you can see that Copenhagen spends far fewer crowns per year. citizens of culture than everyone else does, and this is due to the fact that there is a parish office that you have been able to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133855	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133857	However, that does not change the fact that it is a matter that has come after, that is, after the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen has been established. We can't, just because some others have decided to put some institutions here, and even if you wanted to do it with the Danish Parliament, say to the City of Copenhagen: Why can't you pay a little to the Danish Parliament? I mean, you could do it in all kinds of ways. But, of course, they will say: well, we have not been involved in deciding that it should be there. Someone else has decided. It is set up as something the state has wanted. That is why we need to get to grips with this and ask: is this the last thing to be proposed for Copenhagen to pay for? Otherwise, it doesn't really make any sense. So we're gonna have to have a total calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133939	I think the rapporteur is a little reactionary: there must be no change at all. It's not the last time. So, I will only be satisfied when Copenhagen's consumption on culture is comparable to that which other cities in Denmark spend on culture per year. resident ▪ Aarhus, Odense, Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302133957	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180302134011	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 13 March 2018, at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
