ParlaMint-DK_20181130100000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 54 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting support for nuclear power). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Education and Research (Tommy Ahlers) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement dated 30/11 18 on the research and innovation area 2018. R 6). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday, 11 January 2019. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. B 53). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100106	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100126	Thank you. It is, after all, a quite diverse bill that we are discussing today, perhaps too diverse. It contains several elements. Firstly, the draft law should allow for the adoption of local regulations restricting, during the bathing season, access to certain fast sailing vessels, such as water scooters. Secondly, the proposal must allow private zoos to be exempted from the ban on the establishment of new teams of native birds of prey and owls, and it must be possible for certain falconers to establish new teams of native birds of prey, which is not possible today according to the rules. Thirdly, the proposal must tighten up the penalties for imprisonment for up to two years for infringements of the rules on trade in wild fauna and flora. The Social Democratic Party supports that part of the bill which allows our municipal politicians to assess the need to further drive water scooter sailing for limited periods. There has, as everyone knows, been a very unhappy incident in the harbour of Copenhagen in the summer of 2017. It is therefore positive that this part of the bill tightens up against ruthless water scooters, which we know can cost innocent people their lives. Social democracy also supports that part of the bill which tightens the penalties for breaches of the rules on the trade in wild animals and plants, and we support that part of the bill which allows approved private zoos to establish new teams of native birds of prey and owls. This will give this type of zoo plant the same opportunities as publicly supported zoo facilities. However, we are opposed to that part of the bill which will allow falconers to establish new teams of native birds of prey. The Social Democratic Party opposed the bill which made it possible to start falcon hunting again in Denmark. We believe that falcon hunting goes against animal ethical considerations. Falkes are wild predators that you can experience in nature. They belong in nature, they don't belong in cages. We also believe that falcon hunting can threaten the population of wild falcons at home, because people may be tempted to steal specimens in the wild stock in order to use them for hunting or resale them. That is why we are also opposed to this proposal allowing new teams of native birds of prey and owls. This falcon hunt is also an experimental scheme, and we are therefore in danger of opening up new teams of falcons, which cannot then be closed down if the trial system of falcon hunting remains an experimental system and thus does not become permanent. That would, of course, be a step backwards for the protection of these very magnificent birds of prey. Since we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the bill in its entirety and it is also a bill which, as I have explained, regulates quite different elements of the everyday life of the Danes, i.e. everything from sailing with water scooters to falcon hunts to zoos' team of birds of prey, and as this is how I have explained that social democracy can support large parts of the legal complex, but thus cannot support the part that is about falcon hunting and the elements surrounding the teams of falcones, which is a consequence of the Government's desire to introduce falcony, I would strongly request that we have the bill split up so that it is possible to support the elements that we are in favour and vote against where we are against. I think it would be quite natural for this draft law to be split up because of the very great diversity of the elements. I hope we can achieve that, and I hope the Minister will agree to that. And I would also like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they agree with the comments I have made to the draft law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100534	You're welcome, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100551	Thank you for that, President. L 106 is a proposal to amend the Act on Nature Conservation, the Act on Hunting and Game Management and the Criminal Code. The proposal consists of three different parts, and they are all somehow inspired by wishes from among others. The Danish People's Party, and I can therefore announce from the outset that it is our clear intention, of course, to support all the proposals for amendments contained in the proposal. The first part concerns water scooters. Most of us probably remember the tragic accident that took place in the harbour of Copenhagen, where two female tourists died after an en route to a water scooter. Subsequently, a motion for a resolution was tabled in November 2017, which was to give or intended to allow municipal councils and city councils to take general measures to curb what was happening around ports and at certain beaches, and in May this year, a unanimous committee issued a report calling on the government to put forward a bill to ensure this, and that is the legislative proposal that we are now considering. We think it is gratifying that in this matter the government has worked quickly so that the municipalities can already start to consider with this bill how the restrictions should be, so that it can be decided by next summer, and so that hopefully with this proposal we can help to ensure that accidents do not occur. The second part of the proposal concerns the keeping of native birds of prey, including owls. As it is today, there is a difference between the possibilities for private-owned zoos and gardens to keep these types of birds of prey and the possibilities publicly supported zoos and facilities for keeping native birds of prey and owls. This is in line with what we are doing, so that we can simply ensure that the same opportunities are offered with this bill. We think that's really fine, and we think it's really satisfying that falconers are also being rolled into this solution, so we don't mind. We can speak for that very warmly. I would like to stress that these are birds which are reared in captivity, so there is no question of drifting into the wild and catching new endangered species, but we are using birds which have already been reared in captivity, so I do not buy this argument at all that this should put a new or very great pressure on the stocks that may be in the wild. Moreover, it is not my impression that it will be in Denmark that this pressure is, and since this is indeed about indigenous species, I think it really puts it in a new light compared to what has been said in the debate. The third and final part of the proposal is also a request from the Danish People's Party and, of course, a follow-up to a financial agreement for this year. Last year we agreed with the government that we would tighten up the penalties for trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. This was something we wanted to prioritise, because in this area Denmark was lagging behind our neighbouring countries, and we were worried about what this could mean, especially in relation to international gangs and others who had a desire to trade with these things, and they could put Denmark and zoos, for example, in an extra vulnerable situation compared to the zoos that lie in the countries around us. So this means that, in cases of aggravated circumstances, the penalty could increase to six years and that, in general, the penalty would be increased from one year to two years in the future. That is also quite satisfactory. So we think all three proposals are good proposals which we support and we therefore intend to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100956	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130100959	Thank you. Does it not concern the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party as such to allow teams of native endangered species, i.e. wild owls and other birds of prey, to risk being tempted to either capture wild birds or take eggs from wild birds and put them in the nests of private livestock?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101035	No, I'm not really worried about that. This area is already heavily regulated as it is today. This is a small environment where the people who work with these things and have a great deal of knowledge about them know each other. I think it would be very strange if we saw that there was a very large trade in this, because it would simply be difficult to hide in such an environment. I think there is a lot to be said for these scare pictures, no, I would not call it that; it is negative to use the word scaremonger, but the suspicions that some would have about what could happen are greatly exaggerated. So no, I'm not worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101114	What, then, is the rapporteur's position on the general issue of wild birds of prey having great difficulty in obtaining conditions in captivity which correspond to their living conditions in the wild? Is it not such an animal welfare consideration that could concern the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101138	No, it's not. And I think the questioner should come out a little more and see some things. I mean, I have personally visited volieres in Denmark, where you have these birds of prey, and it's not my impression that any of these birds were harmed on the contrary, it looked as if it was actually very good. And not only that, there is also an educational perspective in it. Well, I have to say that the times I've visited these facilities, I've never seen so many kids and young people interested in nature and the environment and these green issues as they are in these places. So I really think we should seize the opportunity to convey this agenda to the next generation. I mean, it's more nuanced, and I don't see anything negative in this. I am very positive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101225	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101234	Thank you. I can say right away, on behalf of the Left, that we support the entire bill. Against the background of the terrible accidents we have seen last year in the harbour of Copenhagen, it is good that these things are being tackled, and also about the penalties, and about the predators and owls, which have all been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. So I shall not go into that further than saying that we can support everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101303	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101319	Thank you. It was, of course, a quick intervention by the rapporteur of the Left. First of all, like the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, we feel that this is a rather mixed country trade of a bill, and that is why we would also like to propose that the bill be divided into three, so that we can deal with them individually. We from Enhedslisten are even very positive about allowing municipalities to ban the navigation of water scooters and other fast sailing vessels where people bathe. We are clearly in favour of this. As my question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party might read out, we are not in favour of the amendment to the law on hunting and game management, which gives extended authority to lay down rules on the keeping of birds of prey and owls of prey. The Enhedslisten is against keeping birds of prey in captivity, and so we are against hunting with birds of prey. We therefore see no reason to allow the possibility of keeping birds of prey native to Denmark in captivity. An amendment to the law allowing for the holding of captive native birds would in itself increase the risk of illegal capture of live birds and collection of eggs. The amendment will make it all too easy to launder collected birds' eggs, that is, to lay collected eggs in the nests of captive birds in order to increase the population of one's private bird population. The device list is against money laundering in the financial world, and we are also against money laundering in the animal world. The bill also proposes that it should be easier to establish new animal husbandry, in other words to make it easier to keep birds of prey in captivity, and this can very rarely be defended in our optics in terms of animal welfare. It is very difficult to keep birds of prey and to establish conditions that adequately meet the conditions under which birds live in nature, so the establishment of increased teams of birds of prey and owls in captivity is not good animal welfare. So Enhedslisten is against this part of the bill, and this also applies to the last part of the bill, i.e. increased punishment in relation to the trade in wild animals and plants, and it is not because we think it is a good idea to trade in wild animals and plants. In fact, we would like more attention to be paid to how this is going on in this area, so if the proposal contained rules on increased control and supervision, it would in fact be able to receive our support. However, an increased penalty is not in itself something that prevents people from committing crime, and we can also see from the remarks made to the draft law that there has been no crime of this magnitude, which is being proposed for increased punishment in this area. So from this point of view, we cannot support this part of the bill either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101642	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. Yes, I'm sorry, sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101649	I just got really curious. Did I really hear that Enhedslisten could not support the punishment for the trade in endangered animals? I think it is contradictory to be able to hold such a rapporteur's speech, on the one hand, saying that one element of the bill is going to empty many nests with birds which are probably threatened in all kinds of places, while the other element is about how to penalise organised trade more severely on these things, but that will then not be supported. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101717	The rapporteur heard quite rightly, so Mr. Peter Kofod has understood it perfectly correctly. We are opposed to crime in this area, but a punishment in an area where no criminals have been caught for a long time does not make sense. We need greater control, but we do not need such a sharpening of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101744	What if Enhedslisten had said the same thing about Danske Bank and money laundering? We haven't really caught any criminals in this area, so there's no need to sharpen the penalty or do anything like that. That would have been a startling statement. I simply do not understand that there is anything wrong with tightening the penalty when it comes to the trade in very endangered animals. It could be, for example, if someone broke into a zoo in Denmark and killed some animals with sales and trade for a lot of money in mind. What's wrong with hitting it harder?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101820	There is nothing wrong with hitting it harder, but the problem is that you typically don't hit the backers, the ones who are behind this. The ones you get, which is most often about this kind of crime, are people who, of course, are going to bring things home. There is very little of organized crime, in fact nothing has been found in Denmark, and part of the argument in relation to the sharpening of the penalty is that there is a danger that this crime is going to Denmark. But we haven't seen that, so we're not in favour of this punishment, but we'd like to keep a closer eye on what's going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101905	Thank you, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm. I guess there'll be no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130101916	Thank you for that, President. I can, of course, listen to the rapporteur's speeches that have already been made, that I am not the only one who can remember the tragedy in the port of Copenhagen in the summer of 2017 when two American women lost their lives. It is good that things are being taken care of now, so that a similar situation cannot arise in the future, and that is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill in its entirety. With regard to the second part of the bill, which allows private zoos to keep native birds of prey and owls, we see it as a small but important ideological victory, because it is, of course, a liberalisation of the zoo area, which we welcome. Normally, it would be my colleague, sir. Carsten Bach, who was up here. I am a substitute for him, which is why I must also admit that the third part of the bill, which deals with falcon hunting, is not something I know very much about. The little I know can be related to a terrible video that's been circulating on YouTube, where you see a hunting falcon colliding with a truck. That is why we could, of course, consider an amendment which dealt with safety distances for motorways when working with hunting falcons, but we will not table such an amendment, and that is why we support the legislative proposal as a whole. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102103	You're welcome, sir. Henrik Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102110	Thank you. Here we are again presented with a package of mixed candy • three proposals which have no connection at all. Therefore, there is no possibility of marking the different positions that are naturally held on different subjects. The alternative therefore proposes that the Minister divide the proposal into three parts. However, when we go in and look at the proposal, it is the case that the alternative is in favour of the proposal to allow municipalities to limit the flow of water scooters, and we are also in favour of raising the penalty for the illegal trade in endangered animals. But we cannot be positive about giving private teams of birds of prey and owls the opportunity to establish new teams. This will increase the risk of fauna crime and fauna pollution, as several of the consultation parties point out. We see teams of birds of prey as something we must limit to a necessary minimum and as something that zoos, by the way, stand for. Birds of prey generally do not belong in cages. They have large territories in nature and should be free animals. That is why it is good that the teams of birds of prey and owls are generally prohibited and that there are only derogations for the private bird populations that exist. So I hope that the Minister will share the bill so that in the committee work we can separate the discussions and take a qualified position in the vote at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102239	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102249	Thank you. SF supports two out of the three parts of the proposal. The SF thus supports the possibility of adopting local regulations which, during the bathing season, allow for the limitation of access to fast sailing vessels such as water scooters. We also support the proposal to tighten up the penal provisions on imprisonment for up to two years for breaches of the rules on trade in wild fauna and flora. However, the SF cannot support the proposal to allow private zoos to establish new teams of native birds of prey and owls and to enable falconers to establish new teams of native birds of prey. That is not possible today, and the SF believes that it must remain impossible. The background to our resistance is among other things. the risk of illegal capture of native birds of prey and owls, nor do we see the need to use native birds for falcon hunting. If the government wants SF's support for the first two parts of the proposal, i.e. the water scooter ban and the stricter penalties for breaches of rules on the trade in wild fauna and flora, then it is necessary to divide the proposal into two legislative proposals, and I would like to call on the government, like other rapporteurs, to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102412	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102422	Thank you. Yes, as many rapporteurs have rightly said, the draft law is a mixed country trade or a bag of mixed candy, but that is the way it is now. To the first part I would say: Who does not remember the terrible accident in Copenhagen Harbour in May 2017, when a group of high-speed water scooters rushed towards the central part of the harbor and several of the water scooters made dangerous maneuvers. You've seen pictures of a speedboat that sails directly towards these little boats and sprays them. Unfortunately, no one stopped them in time, and it ended in an accident when one of them tried to make a U-turn but lost control of the watermobile and hit a small rental boat with seven young exchange students from the United States at high speed. Unfortunately, two of the young Americans died in the tragic accident. It must not and must not happen again. That is why the government has already tightened up the water scooter package, where among other things. is a requirement for a speedboat driver's certificate, for a water scooter certificate and for compulsory liability insurance. The proposal now follows up the previous measures and allows municipalities to limit access to certain fast-moving vessels such as water scooters, jet skis and certain speedboats at laid-out bathing areas. In the consultation answers there are, it can then be seen that the Danish Sports Association and other federations are a little concerned about whether it will affect local sailing clubs and water ski clubs etc. I hope that the municipalities will manage it in such a way that those who can behave properly and sail short to open water can still do so. The bill opens up the possibility, because it is the municipalities that will have to administer it here. The second part of the bill amending the Birds Regulation should make it easier and quicker for the Danish EPA to allow falconers and approved private zoos to acquire a native bird of prey or owl. We see no problem in that. The last part of the bill then allows for the possibility of increasing the prison sentence from one to two years for infringements of the rules on the trade in wild fauna and flora in cases of aggravating circumstances and up to six years in cases of particularly aggravating circumstances. Conservatives can support all parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102642	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund. And then the trip has come to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130102653	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their speeches. I am, of course, pleased to note that there is a great deal of support for allowing municipalities to ban water scooters and similar beaches in the bathing season. The bathing season is a relatively broad concept, I can look out the window of my office and to sharpen the penalties for CITES crimes. Then I am glad that there is, if not as broad support as there is, however, support for relaxing slightly on the rules on the keeping of birds of prey and owls. Having heard that all the rapporteurs support the proposal for a municipal ban on the use of water scooters and jet skis and other fast sailing vessels at beaches, I will not comment further on this at first reading. I also welcome the support for the proposal for tougher penalties for violating CITES rules on trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora here in Denmark. The aim of the desire to simplify the rules on the holding of captive birds, also known as the bird-holding order, is only that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency may have the opportunity to establish a faster and more flexible procedure. The comments to the draft law show that it is a prerequisite that the new rules are considered to be able to ensure the same level of protection as today. Finally, in relation to the possibility for falconers and approved private zoos to establish new teams of native birds of prey and owls, these birds will continue to be covered by the EU regulations on CITES, i.e. a large number of quite detailed rules on trade regulation. Therefore, it will continue to require permission from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to trade and acquire a native bird of prey or owl, and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will continue to grant permission only if it is documented that the bird has been reared in captivity for at least the second generation. I am therefore confident that falconers and approved private zoos will now be able to acquire a native bird of prey or owl if they need one. As the draft law shows, the expectation is that in practice there will be relatively few birds. It has been mentioned by several rapporteurs whether it would be appropriate to divide the bill. And I must confess that I myself had the idea that I had come to issue a decree in the Ministry that all legislative proposals in my area should contain both water, land and air. Well, maybe I've come to say something like that. I don't really know. But immediately I am in favour of dividing up the bill. I note the great support for parts of it and the less support for other parts, so I can see that I do not really have to divide it up, but I do think that Parliament should be given the opportunity to support the part of the grain of gold that I am spreading, so I would like to give that opportunity. Against this background, I look forward to the continued examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103019	Thank you. Then I should certainly welcome the Bureau and say that we are happy about this, as we have seen a tendency for quite a number of different proposals to be grouped together, and we would like to recommend to the ministers that they be split up so that they belong together in terms of subject matter when we deal with them, because that is a very good thing in terms of committee work. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103042	Thank you. After all, it is fantastic to be faced with a situation in which the Minister can welcome both the opposition and the Bureau. It's a big day. So thank you for choosing to listen to the desire to split it; I think that in every way is wise. When I took the floor, it was not only to sign, but also to ask the Minister to comment on the part of the bill which concerns the fast sailing vessels, that part of the bill which has to do with preventing more tragic accidents such as the one we saw in the port of Copenhagen a few years ago. What does the Minister think about the enforcement of the new provisions? After all, it is the municipality that can impose restrictions on sailing with these water scooters, and it is in every way reasonable that you can do so according to a local wish and a local assessment, but it is essential that we also enforce the ban. I am thinking here of whether the police have the right resources or whether it is the Home Guard that one could imagine doing the job. How does the Minister think enforcement will take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103149	I believe that, in connection with the tragic accident to which several of the rapporteurs have also referred, we were all left with the experience that the tools available were too few and too friendly, and some of us perhaps had some thoughts that ran away with us in this regard. If you start some kind of arms race, to put it that way, where each municipality has to have vessels that go faster, then I think we are out in something that is quite incalculable and something that, by the way, does not increase safety at sea. I very much do not want to see such horrible hunts down the harbor or close to beaches, so I think that some of what will fill here is the documentation that we all have at hand, namely our phone, where we can document it here and then hand it over to the police. I don't see for me the baywatchboats lying at any police station, although it might well be someone who thought it could be cool. But that's not what I see. So I see the opportunity to document this and of course take action if the opportunity is there, but otherwise get hold of this scoundrels afterwards and have them punished hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103305	Thank you very much to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103327	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103346	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten has tabled motion for a resolution B 23 on the establishment of secondary school districts. The distribution of high school students is far from being a new issue. It has been discussed in depth both in the media and in several consultations and in this Chamber. First, allow me to dwell a little on the word student distribution. In fact, most people have a desire to attend a particular school or high school, and in primary school we have a free choice of school both within primary school and between forms of school. So how on earth did we really end up here, where we are talking exclusively about student distribution and not at all about what the students and their families themselves would like? I think you can think about that a little bit. With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants the government to put forward a bill that ensures a framework for the establishment of high school districts, and without knowing Enhedslisten's proposal fully in detail, it sounds a little bit as if Enhedslisten wants to introduce the baton for high school students. The unit list shall state the reasons, inter alia: the proposal that in recent years there has been a great difference in the composition of pupils in the country's secondary schools. The differences are largely due to the fact that pupils from resourceful families are increasingly opting out of the local high school in favour of high schools with pupils coming from an environment similar to their own. This means that there will be a division of pupils after social and ethnic divisions in several areas of the country. And according to Enhedslisten it damages integration and undermines the student base of a number of high schools to an extent that directly threatens the existence of these colleges. It calls for new rules, states Enhedslisten, and the proposal will divide the country into high school districts which include all secondary education. According to the proposal, the competence to define the districts should be located in the regions, which could thus take account of the local differences in the secondary school structure and in the student search patterns in the different parts of the country. The government agrees that there are high schools which have problems with, for example. cultural clash, low professionalism and/or poor behaviour among students. However, the question of the distribution of pupils in high schools has more aspects than just the question of a more mixed composition of pupils. It is a question of integration and cultural clash, more than it is a question of the distribution of pupils in high schools. Parallel societies and cultural clashes are not only a danger lurking in high schools. It is a challenge at school, at work, in the housing block and in many other places in our society. We have quite simply received more new citizens for a number of years than it has been possible to integrate, and we must be careful to take all Danish young people hostage in the sacred name of integration. This is a problem where there may be different ways of attacking the problems. In Finland and Norway they have a model with a point system based primarily on students' grades, and here the students are free to choose which high school they want to apply for, but the students who have the most points are admitted first. Whatever the case, it is important that we do not become so desperate that we make hasty decisions that will ultimately have a decisive and very intrusive impact on many young people in this country. The government believes that a more solid analytical basis is needed for further discussion of possible new permanent pupil distribution models or models, where the pupils themselves can have an influence on which high school they should go to. It is relevant to include elements such as: demographic development, the composition of pupils in a given area, the choice of pupils and capacity-setting. The government is setting up a group of experts to meet and assess different models, including high school districts. The work of the expert group shall be based on a thorough analysis of, inter alia: student flows and demography. And that work must provide us with a solid basis for political discussion and decision-making on future student distribution models or models for how students can look for high schools. In conclusion, however, regardless of the model on which we agree, we must assume that the high school as an institution cannot solve the very major integration problems and the cultural clashes that exist in our society. If we receive too many new citizens, some of whom are too little concerned about integrating themselves, then problems arise in all the organisations we now have in our society, including high school. And it's too much to impose on high school alone to solve the big problems. However, in terms of how students are to be distributed, we await the expert group's analysis of possible models and therefore we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103857	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103904	Thank you. I completely disagree with the Minister when she says that it ties the students when you do district gymnasiums; something has to happen. The major problems are in Aarhus and the West, but they also spread to other cities. In Aarhus we have not been able to agree on a distribution, and so it is according to the rules that are now that there is no solution. In Aarhus they want to try again, but it requires a derogation from the Minister to be allowed to do so. I would just like to ask the Minister: is the Minister willing to grant a derogation so that a new attempt can be made in Aarhus?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130103942	Well, we are always in close dialogue with Aarhus and some of the high schools that have had these challenges, for example. Langkaer Gymnasium, which had huge integration problems. Langkaer Gymnasium has also been given the opportunity to make a merger with another high school, and it seems to be the way forward so that you can strengthen the local institution, and we have there a principal who is fighting for his high school and who is fighting for young people and for creating a good young environment. I think it's beautiful and worth all honour. We also have other principals around the country who need help. We have a principal at Frederiksberg Gymnasium who does a huge job of introducing students to what to say, democratic education and ensuring that they have a good study environment. So there is a struggle around the various colleges, but in relation to the big overall question, how we distribute the students, there is simply a need for a more thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104048	It is true that there is a struggle and that there are a great many rectors who need help, but they are not getting any help. What I asked was: Can Aarhus be allowed to make a new attempt on the distribution committee to find out if they can make a common solution? The second question is about the West. It is the case that the capacity has been moved out of the western region, so that there has been a large increase in capacity in both Roskilde and Ørestaden, and the high schools in the western region are hit hard because the resourceful and those with a Danish background are looking out of the western region, they are not staying. So will the Minister help the high schools that are left in the West region, which are economically badly affected by the loss of pupils in the area covered by the distribution committee for the West?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104141	I have not received any requests from high schools in the West, which are financially insecure. I would like to go back and find out whether that is the case. However, the Ministry is constantly in contact with colleges or other educational institutions which experience financial constraints. If you are financially in need, you have to go to the board to get help and advice, and I can only encourage high schools who experience that they are, to have a dialogue with the board of directors. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104219	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104221	The Minister says in his speech that there are other problems in high schools than the distribution of pupils. It is, of course, a point of view that is difficult to contest, and I would say that the authors of the motion are not of the opinion that this is the only problem either. But I get the impression, both from the Minister's speech here and from the Minister, that the Minister does not actually see that the distribution of pupils is in itself a problem. Obviously, if you do not see that there is a problem, then it is not easy to look for solutions either. Is it true that the Minister does not really see this as a problem of the socially and ethnically biased distribution of pupils, which is in many high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104309-2	As I said in my speech, there are integration problems, there are cultural clash problems, there are professional problems and there are behavioural problems in some colleges. I fully acknowledge that and I am very concerned about it. And that's where we're gonna start. Can it be solved by some technical distribution of the students? No, I don't think it can, because it's much deeper than that. It is about whether young people know how to behave, that they have a sufficiently high professional level, that they recognise democratic values and that they are part of a Scandinavian youth culture. Can we solve this by making some kind of distribution mechanism? I don't think it's that simple. I know that many people currently subscribe to that view, but it is just not that simple to solve major integration problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104403	The Minister thus confirms my assumption that the Minister does not consider that the question of the distribution of pupils in itself is a problem that needs to be resolved. I can hear that the Minister believes that there are many other problems that need to be resolved, but that the distribution of pupils does not cry out for a solution. That is why I wonder what all the analytical work is going to do, if the starting point is that there should actually be no change in the pupil distribution mechanisms. And if that is not the case, what exactly does the Minister intend to take of initiatives to respond to the appeals now being made by students, teachers and rectors of the country to take action against the bias in the composition of pupils? Will the Minister do something concrete, or will she wait a year or more, until there is a new analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104452	I fully recognise that there are major problems both in relation to the outskirts and in relation to cultural clashes. The analysis work that we are going to undertake will be a serious and thorough analysis which will lead to a political discussion. Then a majority will have to decide when the analysis work is finished what to do. If there is a majority for, for example, a district model, that will be the solution. That's totally fair. I can just say, for my part, that if you hope that all integration problems in Denmark will be solved because you do some kind of student distribution in some technically refined way, I think you tie the population something on the sleeve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104534	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104537	Thank you. I usually agree with the Minister. I'm not in this area. I think it is an exaggeration to call this proposal a new stick band, but I agree with the Minister that it will of course not be able to solve the integration problems they are huge but I think that it will be able to give some positive things to the high school sector. But don't rush it. We must do this on a proper basis, and that is why my specific question is: when is this committee of experts set up finished? If it is only finished for two years, which I think I have heard is the intention, but I do not know, can its work not be speeded up, because I believe that this is an area that we really need to deal with as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104619	No, there's no reason to sit for two years looking at this problem, certainly not. There must be a thorough analytical work, which we have also agreed with DF, which will have to address the problems that exist and indicate different scenarios and what these can lead to in order to resolve some of the difficulties that exist. I look forward to this work. I do not see at all that it should take two years, and I do not think it should take one year either. More precisely, I don't think I can say this from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104654	But that is of course a pity, because it is important for the discussion of this proposal, because this proposal should, of course, only be tried out when you have a very, very thorough knowledge of it, but otherwise I think there are a lot of positive things in the proposal, and it would be nice to be able to have it supported by concrete knowledge in this area. So could it be imagined that the commission could have finished within 3-4 months?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104729	I can't give you an exact deadline while standing up here on the platform. I would like to come back in writing with when we can expect such a commission to give a qualified answer. It must be a thorough work to enable the debate and decision on district models or other opportunities for the distribution of pupils to be qualified. There should be time for that, but of course it should not be slow, so I certainly do not think that a whole year will be necessary either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104804	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We now come to the rapporteurs and the first is Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130104821	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you very much to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution. We think that this is a very good proposal. We fully agree with Enhedslisten when they say that district gymnasiums help to ensure a diversity in student composition in the country's high schools, just as Mrs Marie Krarup also said before. We also fully agree with Enhedslisten when they say in the proposal that a solution is needed. At least a lot of us have been fighting for too long, and this division of the students just gets worse and worse as time passes. In fact, in recent years, we have seen a tendency for pupils, especially in large cities, to seek high schools, where many young people already have the same cultural and religious background as themselves, and we are in fact facing that challenge because many young people with a different ethnic background are taking youth education, and that is very good. But the success of education policy has an integration policy background. After all, we have held a great many consultations on this particular issue. We have had the Minister for Integration and the Minister for Education in consultation at the same time, and it has to be said, to put it mildly, that the government ministers are deeply divided on this issue. It is the case that the Minister for Integration says this has to be resolved; the Minister for Education says that we must have the free choice, there will be no solution. There is a great deal of feeling, when we hold these consultations, that the Minister of Education is sitting completely alone in the room with these opinions. So it's a little weird that we can't get a majority to change this. It is also the case with this working group, which is set up, that it is completely new to me that it can be done more quickly, in three months, less than one year, because when we were in the negotiations, there was no doubt that there were two years, and I even think that it is in the agreement. But it's only really positive. We think it is fine to set up the working group, but two years is simply too long to wait. We should preferably be able to get a better distribution done as early as next school year. How's it look out there? Yes, it is the case that in Aarhus one cannot agree on a distribution right now. In the first year, it was agreed on what was considered on the average grade. It didn't seem right. The second year we looked at where the students lived. It is the case that if you go to school where you live, there will automatically be a better distribution of pupils and it worked. This year a new distribution had to be made and no agreement was reached. And with the rules that are now in place, if you do not agree and have a right of veto to say no, then you do not agree with that, then there will be no solution. That's why Aarhus says we have to try again. If we cannot agree with the distribution committees, I think it should be the case that either the region joins, as Enhedslisten has proposed in this proposal, or the minister takes responsibility and gets a distribution made. They yell and scream at it out there. In the West region, capacity has been increased, as I said in my question, outside the West. It attracts some students, and the ethnics remain. The high schools are becoming economically intrusive, and it is not enough just to say that they should turn to the Ministry if they are financially in need. We must avoid financial constraints; we must prevent students with Danish ethnicity from moving, among other things. from the West. This problem is moving, too. It is so that first it was in Aarhus and in the West, now it is also in the other major cities. It's in Odense, and it's also come to Kolding. It goes further and further into the country, and if we do not do something fast and soon, it is so that it will be very, very difficult to move back. Clearly, it is not only a question of integration. This is a misguided housing policy for many years. But we simply have to do something now, because otherwise we will be overrun, and it is very, very difficult to find a solution that can help everyone. This is how we are prepared to compromise on free school elections. We don't think you're bound by having a school where you live. That's how it was when I was in high school. I went to the nearest high school. I think most people did that back in the 1980s. So today the trend is just another. We need to create a more mixed distribution of pupils at all colleges, and we need to look at whether we cannot come up with a common solution. That is why we also think that there were a great many good tactics in the first points presented by the government some time ago. Unfortunately it was the case that the profiling gymnasians got in the way... that nobody thought a good idea... and then we weren't allowed to discuss the other things. So right now, the solution is that if you do not agree, there is no solution, and that is just not good enough. So, together with Enhedslisten, we'd like to take a look at district gymnasiums, we'd like to take a look at whether these points, paragraphs 1 and 2, that the government came with, are something that we can agree on. And I had to say from the Radical Left that they are. We are voting against this proposal, but we would very, very much like to continue working on it and to create a majority for these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105337	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105342	Thank you. While we are all waiting for the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, we might as well use our time in this Chamber today to discuss some other things in connection with district gymnasiums. I would really like to ask Mrs Annette Lind: what could be of disadvantage in terms of social democratic spectacles compared to creating a district model?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105414	We do not think that there are any drawbacks to it. We know that a lot of people are interested in getting a district model, and we have looked at that ourselves. We want to help make a model, but we also want to help to see if there is an ethnicity that needs to be thought into this. There is no such thing in the proposal here. After all, we ourselves have made a proposal that there should be no more than 30%. of other ethnic background in the individual classes. We still think that's a good idea. District gymnasiums solve a major problem, which is why we would like to see a majority, or preferably a broad majority, of this. So I'd like to work on it. We think there were good tactics in what the government put forward in the answers to the first questions. So I think there should be a little more than just district gymnasiums.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105500	If I have to go further in the same direction, I would say that if we are to talk openly and honestly about what might also be of disadvantage, then one of the things I hear when I talk to some people, for example. the regions, that they say that a district model, among other things. can help increase the amount of pro forma addresses, i.e. that young people choose to make a fictitious address somewhere else to make sure they get to the high school they'd rather go to. That's one of the things I've heard. Then there is that too, and it usually is some of the things that at least social democracy may be nervous that there may naturally be an increased search for private high schools. And I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that. Is that not a concern of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105555	If you have pro forma addresses, it is social fraud, and of course we are not interested in that. It is true that if there are young people who wriggle there, we must, of course, pay attention to it. Nor do we think that there should be an increased search for private colleges as such. What is here is that there is a problem and one of the good solutions may be district gymnasiums. And when we vote no here, it is because we think it does not solve the problem entirely alone. We want to help look at some other solutions at the same time as this, among others. This is about whether there should be a ceiling on ethnicity. I would like to discuss this and I would like to take part in the debate on it, and we have wanted to do so for two years. And I know that there is a majority in this House who would also like to do so, so I simply cannot understand that we cannot agree to a solution. The way things are now, things are going wrong and things are getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105648	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105650	Well, I was very pleased with the rapporteur's speech until the rapporteur came to the conclusion. So it is simply a mystery to me that the rapporteur can use all his speaking time to praise the idea of introducing high school districts because it can promote diversity. Why, then, is it that the Social Democrats will vote against it? I would ask the rapporteur to explain this once again. I simply do not understand the logic of the rapporteur's speech and subsequent conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105723	As I also said to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, it is the case that district gymnasiums are a very good solution to a great many problems. I would like to help create district gymnasiums; I would just like to have a ceiling on how many students with other ethnic backgrounds should be in the classes. There's no such thing in this proposal. That is why I think we should sit together and find a solution that we can all agree on and get a broad majority in favour of. For district gymnasiums a desire is very many places. But there is also a wish that we should set a maximum. For how many students there are. After all, we have tabled this in the past as a motion for a resolution under the auspices of the S-SF-R government, and we have still lost that position. But we want to help look at solutions together with Enhedslisten. And then the time limit here is a little short. A draft law will be submitted by February 2019. And it's a little fast, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105809	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105811	Both the rapporteur and I can probably remember at least our report on the motion for a resolution tabled last year by the Social Democratic Party on ethnic quotas. Well, we're notoriously against that. But do I really understand that social democracy is not in favour of high school districts if they do not also contain ethnic quotas, where there is special regulation for pupils with a non-Danish ethnic background? Really? If you can't sort by ethnicity, don't you want a district model for student distribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105854	I think that the rapporteur should turn on the positive listeners, because that is how we want to find a solution. And we would also like to make a joint solution. We would like to see an ethnic solution to this, too, but we would like to see it in a context. I also said that there are good tactics in what the government brought in, and we would like to take a look at that as well. The time frame here is a little short, but I would like to help make a solution with Enhedslisten. That's a good point. I think it is a good thing that the Enhedslisten is putting it forward here. We have to keep pushing, because we have a minister who does not want to solve it. And that's just too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105930	With this, we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130105946	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party welcomes the motion for a resolution. In fact, we ourselves have advocated precisely this and have considered putting forward a motion for a resolution on this matter ourselves. There are two problems in the high school sector that we need to resolve. One is the small high schools in the countryside that are starving and that have difficulty competing with the big high schools that suck up students. Thus it is difficult for the little ones to survive. The second problem is that this self-segregation of Danish and Muslim students is taking place in the big cities. And that means that we have high schools where the Danes come in a minority, and I do not think that you can offer Danish high school students. This proposal, if implemented, will not solve the problems of integration. I fully agree with the Minister on that. It takes a lot more than that. Unfortunately, it goes much, much deeper, but one of the things you can do, after all, is to ensure that Danish pupils do not fall into a minority in any schools; I think we have an obligation to do so. That is why I believe that setting up high school districts is something that we must work towards. This will create a predictability for the parents and for the pupils, which will make it easier, and if the districts are drawn properly, what I said will defend the small rural gymnasiums and ensure that all pupils know that they will not risk being in a minority at a high school as Danes. It takes you to be good at drawing these lines on the map, and that requires it to be reported out in good time, so people know it. Hopefully, then, we will also avoid the pro forma addresses that we have today, precisely because there is unpredictability today, because we have the so-called free choice, which in reality is not very free. So we think the model is good, but we think it is problematic that this proposal should be implemented in February. So, hello, this needs to be done thoroughly and thoroughly, and that is why I would urge that instead of saying that the proposal should be implemented when the expert commission is ready. And then we're gonna need a date on when it's done. Because we can't just do this without it being looked through very, very carefully. Remember, too, that the whole taximeter system will fall to the ground with a bang if you make this model, because the taximeter system is based on a thinking that the high schools must compete with each other for pupils. And all of a sudden, we're suspending competition in this sector, so these two things just can't be connected at all. That's why this also leads to a taximeter reform. So there are so many things that need to be thought through, and I would really urge that we get started on this, but I just think it is a pity that Enhedslisten, with this proposal, requires that it all be at an angle in February 2019, because I think that is simply premature. And then you can risk coming up with a solution that is not good enough. That is why I believe that in the work of the committee we should look at whether we could change some of the things in the motion for a resolution so that it becomes more edible, for example. My party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110317	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110319	Thank you for your kind words on the proposal. I agree with the rapporteur that it may also be necessary to look at the taximeter system. It will be a secondary effect that we will not be sorry about, I would say, in the Enhedslisten. When we have put forward a proposal that something should happen now quickly, that is because it has been discussed for a few years and that nothing has happened. If the rapporteur were to indicate a time when there would be a legislative proposal, when would it be? I am listening with concern to the Minister, who cannot give a clear answer as to when it should be. We are already a little concerned about the fact that, in our view, this will only come into force in the coming school year, but in the next school year again, and we are very concerned that we will certainly not have it shot, in fact two and a half years from now, if we push the work of such an expert committee for a very long time. So, if DF were to be able to support the proposal, when, if so, would it be put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110431	Thank you for your comments. We also think that the taximeter system is very problematic, which is why it is only good that you get a look at it. But you just have to have so much respect for reality that you take seriously that it is not easy to change such a supertanker as the taximeter system is. So to make a concrete suggestion of how long it will take, I think is difficult. But I could imagine that such a committee of experts could work until perhaps May. Then you could have a political debate, and then you might get a legislative proposal that could be adopted during 2019. So maybe it could already be lived from recorded 2020. I do not know exactly how long such a thing can and should take, but my call is for it to be done on the basis of proper knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110535	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110536	We're not hot followers of lawlessness... it would also be stupid to say it if we were so I listen to the remarks. For us, it is incredibly important that something should happen at the latest with the school year starting in 2020, and our great concern, as I said, is that work is dragging on so that it does not reach that stage either. So we believe that a minister should intervene right now in relation to capacity ceilings and other things that could have an immediate effect. However, in our view, in relation to a legislative proposal, this should be effective by 2020. We are fully prepared to discuss when we can push the date of entry into force of this proposal so that 5, 6, 7, 8 months are given. We just need a deadline to ensure that we can get started by 2020. But thank you for your comments. I think we should work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110630	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110633	I agree that something must also be done, and it must be done quickly. I just don't want it to go beyond quality. After all, we are so concerned about the small high schools that we must constantly throw a safety net over and help and support. It is, of course, part of the financial law negotiations right now that additional support needs to be given to small rural gymnasiums, and we must remember that these issues will be aggravated in the future because we have fewer high school pupils because of the adolescences, but also because we hope that there will be more in vocational schools. So we need a system that can cope and manage that there will be fewer and fewer pupils, and the current system simply cannot. So I fully agree with that. But we could start by knowing when the committee of experts is ready and then include it in the proposal that it should only be done when it is finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110720	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130110727	Thank you for that, President. As several other rapporteurs have said before me, this is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and which calls for a model for district divisions to be drawn up as early as February 2019 in relation to high schools. The proposal, which the authors of the motion for a resolution are presenting today, would then like to place the responsibility for defining these districts with the regions, at least as I have read the proposal. All in all, it can be said that the proposal looks fine immediately, but it is in the way that the proposers are well aware that the government has decided to set up a group of experts to dig deeper into these matters before taking any decisions. Because we know that the decisions we take in this context will have an extremely significant spill-over effect out there in reality, and it is the case that there are clearly some issues in the largest cities here and now that are pressing, but there are also some other issues in relation to the rural gymnasiums, which are in a situation where the youth ages, i.e. student numbers, are decreasing. We have also made an eud agreement across parties, which should ensure that more young people choose vocational training. Nor can it be avoided that pupils in high schools, in other words general secondary schools, will be affected, and that is why there are a great many different things that we must at least be aware of when we take these decisions and which must be taken into account. At the same time, as Mrs Krarup has just said in the rapporteur's speech, it is quite correct that we also have a challenge with regard to the economy of the small secondary schools in the outermost regions, and that is to say, I fully agree that this requires looking at the taximeters in the same way. So all in all, it can be said that many things are involved in relation to the resolution tabled here today by Enhedslisten. We in the Left feel that it is really, really important that we now await the expert group's report and the expert group's analysis, and I hope that immediately afterwards we can put ourselves together across the parties and agree on how to solve this problem. But with that said, the Left will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111026	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111028	I have noticed in an article on everything.dk from 3-4 weeks ago that Mrs Anni Matthiesen has been quoted as annoying that there has not been an agreement on the distribution of high school and that the rapporteur wants a model in which regional councils can distribute high school students. If the rapporteur has regretted that no agreement had been reached, I think that is also a shame, depending on the content of the agreement, it is not an indication that the rapporteur really believes that there is a basis for a proposal in this area relatively quickly; otherwise, I think, the annoyance is in any case unnecessary, i.e. if the rapporteur did not think there was a basis for a decision to be taken. What I really want to achieve is that it is very important for the Enhedslisten that there can be new rules from the school year 2020 at the latest. Does the rapporteur agree that we need to promote this work so that we can have new rules when high schools start after the summer break of 2020 at the latest?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111137	But I want to say that I still regret the fact that we did not reach a joint decision on this. I actually do the most of that because I know that there are places in the country where it is pushing for clarification. Having said that, I also recognise quite clearly that things are connected and, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there are some issues in relation to the rural gymnasiums and the situation they are in here and now. And for that matter, the taximeter part also plays in. So there are a lot of things that I really hope that, even when we get the expert group's recommendations, we will get to grips with. Because I don't think you can just solve this problem by saying that now we're making a district model, as Enhedslisten suggests. I think that at the same time we should remember to think about what model it is that might be best suited to the outermost regions as well. So I do not think that the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten solves things, and I would actually rather that we now have a more basic knowledge of things, so that hopefully we will have some real decisions taken from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111249	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111250	I fully agree that this is not just a big city problem, but that we need to find new solutions for the rural high schools. But once again: does the rapporteur not agree with me that we need to find a solution to this problem so that it can enter into force at the latest in a year and a half? Or is the rapporteur really of the opinion that this can be postponed to 21⁄2 years or 31⁄2 years? Does the rapporteur not agree that there is so much urgency that there should be a new model at the very latest in 18 months' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111328	After all, I hope that we will get a very concrete answer as to when the expert group has actually finished its work. I really think it must be there that we decide when we can get this thing started. I clearly have the position: the sooner, the better. However, I also think we should respect the fact that the expert group should have time to do its work thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111348	Then it's Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111349	Thank you very much. In fact, it is in the wake of Mr. Jakob Silverhøj's question. I think it's new to everyone in this room that it shouldn't take two years for the committee of experts to do this job. We all had a clear sense of this when we were sitting at the negotiations. It's really good if they can work faster. If this is the case that it may take six months from now, is the rapporteur willing to come up with a solution as soon as possible? There is no doubt that the Minister for Integration says the sooner, the better. Is that also the position of the rapporteur? All I have is this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111422	I would like to say, as I have done before, that now we need to get to the light how fast this can go. I think we must recognise that they must, of course, have time to do their job well and thoroughly. We all have an interest in the fact that what they deliver to us has been worked through. But I have the clear opinion that this is a matter of urgency, so the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111444	With that, we thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Then we've reached the Liberal Alliance, and that's Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111452	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 23 deals with one of the symptoms of one of the most reckless political decisions ever made in the history of Denmark, which ranks quite in line with entering the thirty-year war without cause and other things that have had very, very far-reaching consequences for Denmark, and it is the decision in the 1980s to have no real democratic mandate to implement a population change in Denmark. We must then have dealt with the symptoms around us, but, as I have said, it is only a symptom treatment, almost whatever you think, and here the resolution is a record. I think it is important to clarify the context. We might as well say that right away... can't support B 23. First of all, it may not even be the most important proposal to remove free school and high school elections, and we are, of course, opposed to that in the Liberal Alliance. The problem that needs to be resolved is, of course, a symptom, as I have already mentioned. This reflects the fact that over decades an ethnic subclass has emerged in Denmark that has not been able to integrate and that cultural clashes are taking place in high schools. There it is probably very doubtful that it can be solved by weakening the pupils' free choice of secondary school. What Enhedslisten proposes will initially affect all Danish students. A regime that goes beyond everyone is being introduced to solve a limited problem. After all, there must be some sort of proportionality to the problem that is being addressed and the side effects that the solution has. And that proportionality is not present here. Secondly, no matter how sensible it may be to organize the high school departments, that is what Mrs Krarup said about almost one hundred percent sure that school districts will lead to residential segregation. After all, housing segregation is a segregation that has been going on for many years. After all, citizens are free to choose where they want to live and all the citizens who can will of course move to some areas where the school system operates in a way that they are satisfied with. If we were to adopt such a proposal on school districts in theory, we would push for a development that is already under way, which is a socially and ethnically violently segregated Denmark with all the additional problems it will bring with it. In this way, it can be said that if the proposal were implemented, it would push a development which has been criticised by many and which has also been criticised on the left, because, as far as I know, one is against housing segregation, but it will certainly get worse if the proposal is implemented. A possible solution to all these problems with high schools that don't really work I'm counting on it could be to set the admission requirement to high school up to 7. This would mean that there would be a completely different profile in high schools quite quickly, and because of the way in which the grades are distributed when it comes to pupils who cause problems, many of the problems would be solved if the admission requirement were 7. Of course, we do not want to be involved in this on the left, even though it would probably solve the problems, so I think this is a parade proposal. We await the work of the government in resolving the problem and cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the proposal cannot be supported either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111948	Thank you very much, sir. Henrik Dahl. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130111952	The lack of support for the proposal by the Liberal Alliance may not surprise me, but should the comment that the problem could be solved by establishing a character requirement of 7 be understood in such a way that many young people with a different ethnic origin, that is to say, if you put the character requirement high? Is that it, sir? Henrik Dahl trying to say his own way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112016	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112017	It is a completely objective fact that when it comes to people with a non-Western background, both girls and boys, they perform quite a lot under Danish girls and boys, and therefore, whether you like the world as it is designed or not, it would help to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112042	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112043	So, sir. Henrik Dahl's solution to this is to keep more young people with a different ethnic background out of our high schools. So, the answer is less education for young people who do not have an ethnic Danish background. Is that really the Liberal Alliance's response to the challenges we face in the field of high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112103	I believe that the struggle to achieve an average of 7 in itself has a socializing effect on all kinds of children. Whether they are girls or boys, non-western backgrounds or Danish, the socializing effect would be the way to tighten up and that one should perform that one should be a skilled student, benefit all kinds of children, regardless of what their background is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112135	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112137	The problem here is that we have some high schools where there are some students who are similar is a success criterion in that we have got many with other ethnic backgrounds to take a secondary education. If you put the character up to 7 to get in, we know who can't go to high school. Then it's following on from Mr. Knox. Jakob Sølvhøj's question: "The meaning of the Danish People's Party is that this success story means that many children with a different ethnic background should not have a secondary education?"
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112216	I often agree with the Danish People's Party, but I represent the Liberal Alliance. But I will try to answer the question that has been asked. It is just that if you look at what is the purpose of stx, then the purpose of stx is to enable a young person to take a higher education course. There the University of Copenhagen has, of course, already ruled on the matter, because at the University of Copenhagen it has been declared that you cannot use people who have less than 6 on average at the Baccalaureate. They are not believed to be able to implement. So the problem with high schools is simply that you have let too many people in and that you are creating a proletariat which, although wearing a student's hat on its head, cannot use the baccalaureate for anything because it is too weak.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112315	Thank you. I assume that it was a mistake on the part of Mrs Annette Lind that she mentioned a party other than that on the platform before. Yeah, I guess it was a mistake just to suggest it to the record. Of course I'm talking to the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for that). It was a mistake. Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112333	I'd like to ask Mr. Henrik Dahl: Is it the case that you say that if you have a different ethnic background, you can't take a higher education? So I would also like to ask: what kind of education should these students, who may have fought very hard to reach the admission requirement that we have set up, take?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112355	Fortunately, characters are completely meritocratic. My grandfather was an unskilled worker, my mother became a high school teacher, and it was because of these completely socially different grades that you have, and of course grades will also be ethnically different. In other words, it is a question of achieving a certain level of performance, and I think that everyone can achieve that, some people need to do more than others, but that is why it is so well focused on a meritocratic system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112425	With that, we thank Mr. Henrik Dahl. We are moving forward in a series of rapporteurs to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112434	Thank you. I think that's what you might call a Freudian slip when Mrs. Annette Lind came to associate Mr. Henrik Dahl with the Danish People's Party. I'm always gonna start somewhere else than I want to when I get on the platform for Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, because I am so provoked by some of the things that sometimes come from his side. This is good for the political debate, but I do not think that, when you start by saying that this resolution is a symptom of a problem which concerns a population change in Denmark in the 1980s, it should not be left without being addressed. On the whole, I have heard from a number of speakers today that we are talking about this as an integration problem and that it is about the fact that we have got a population of young people who are not ethnically Danish into Denmark and that this in itself is a problem. Then I just think we should address what it really is, the problem is and who it is we stigmatize when we call something a problem. The problem is that we do not have a properly mixed, you might say, the distribution of pupils in our high schools, the problem is not that it is someone's fault. Yes, it may be said that it is our politicians' fault, but it is not the individual pupils who are the problem. I was at Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium, speaking of which it is one of the high schools we are talking about, which has a very high proportion of children with a background that is not ethnic Danish, to make recordings for Far from Borgen perhaps six months or a year ago, and that was interesting because an average student at Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium goes out and gets a longer education than the average Danish student. That's one of the things we learned when we were doing these footage. So the whole point is that you are necessarily a problem because you are a student who goes to that high school or because you represent a minority is simply wrong. It is some very talented students who get good grades and go out with a good baccalaureate. So it is not the problem that you come from a country other than Denmark, or that you have a different skin color, but the problem is that if we want to have more mixed high schools, then we have to do something. There we can ask ourselves why we want to do so. I think that is the interesting discussion, that is why we want to do so. And there I learned, when I was at the High Taastrup High School, that it was among other things. is about the fact that there are many Danish students who then choose these high schools from, among other things. because the festival culture is different, so there is no celebration in the same way, and social life is different. I think that is actually a problem, so that there are some who do not have the same social life. But we just have to be very careful who we point to as the problems in relation to this. Now, back to the motion for a resolution. We do not support it from the point of view of the alternative. I would like to thank you for putting it forward, and I think it is a hugely relevant issue to discuss, but we are concerned that there is too much distance to go to high school, and we are also concerned that we are actually doing away with free school elections, as others have said. That is why we do not support this resolution, but, as Mrs Annette Lind also said, and as others have said, we would very much like to work further towards finding out what a model might look like. I have asked Birgitte Vedersøe, President of the Danish High School, what their attitude is. Their attitude is that you actually make a legal obligation for the distribution committees that when there are distribution problems, the distribution committees should then have a toolkit, which is set out through an announcement that may contain different models of how to make the distribution, and there she actually says that this proposal with the districts could be a model in that toolkit, and there might be other models. She mentions distribution by grade, language, distribution by place of residence, by regulating waiting lists or abolishing waiting lists, and she mentions other different things. I imagine that will be some of the things this working group might also bring with it. But the idea is to tell the distribution committees that you should Well, but unfortunately we cannot find a solution, so we leave the individual high school with the problems. We think that is a sensible model to try to look at. Another thing that we have also talked about in our group, but which has not been up today, is that one might also consider whether to look at some financial compensations, benefits for some of the high schools that find it difficult to attract students. Why don't we say: Maybe there's a slightly higher taximeter, at least for a while, to some of the high schools so they can make some attractive lines, study trips, what do I know, which makes some of the students actually actively seek these high schools. That's another way of working, that's working with a carrot rather than working with a punishment. Finally, I would like to say that this is basically a housing social problem, as Mrs Annette Lind also mentioned. It is, of course, in the long run, but we must not give up on the fact that this is the real issue that we have to resolve. Then we can do some other things until it works by itself, but in the long run we have to secure some more mixed residential areas throughout the country. So thank you to Enhedslisten. We do not support it, but we would very much like to continue working on finding a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112950	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. It's sir. Henrik Dahl first.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130112955	I am asked directly from the platform what is the problem. I do not think that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, in what she herself says from the platform, is on the right track, so I should be happy to help. The problem is, of course, that in the 1980s, without real support from the population, a very large population replacement was introduced with a population from the Middle East, one might say. That development has led to about 2050, there will be 12-14 per cent. of the people who have this background. This leads to the same identity crisis as there is in the Middle East itself, namely that there is a part of the population that is modern-minded, and then there is another part of the population that is very orthodox and does not want to integrate. This is what causes the problems in high schools around, among other things. at Birgitte Vedersø's own high school, although she won't admit it. I have put the child to go to the high school Birgitte Vedersø is the principal of, and there are problems with social control, with radicalisation, with protest sometimes against learning about Darwin or having sex education and the like. These are the problems that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113114	Yeah, but it's gonna be political stories over and over again. Give me some evidence of how big a problem there is with social control. I feel the same way, even when we talked about praying room in high schools, that all of a sudden it's oh, so awful, because it's gonna be a cover-up. Here you sit and do indoctrination with rabid Islam. I also feel a little bit like that: yes, but then came up with the documentation for that problem. When I'm out talking to the high schools, there are, of course, problems in some places, we all know that, but it's not something that puts our high schools down and makes them unable to function or that the students can't get a good education. The problems are quite different. It is that it is more attractive to go to Christianshavn. I have three children and two bonus children, all of whom in these years are going to high school in Copenhagen. I am well aware of that problem because there is something attractive and there is something that is not, but if you want to make it a problem based on social control and religion, then just some documentation needs to be on the table before I am at least convinced of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113208	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113209	It is just that people cannot really wait for documentation to convince Mrs Magdalene Maier, because there you simply vote with your feet and go somewhere else where you do not feel that the problems exist. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... the problem that we are dealing with a group of students who are always underpriesting in relation to Danish children. The sequence is Danish girls, Danish boys, brown girls, brown boys, they never catch up. It may well be that you spend more time in higher education, but this is not reflected in the employment rate, and that is why there is probably something dysfunctional about the training, where it is more a su machine that you can draw some su into.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113256	As far as I am aware, but we can read that out, girls with a non-ethnic Danish background have overtaken the Danish boys in education level. Those who go in and get long higher education today are ahead of boys with ethnic Danish backgrounds. I just don't recognise that we're not on the right track. It has been progressing for a long time. Yes, we have challenges that are based on socially burdened residential areas, which might well need us to invest some extra money in the public schools, day-care centres, and what do I know is there, so that we can raise those children who have difficulty in being lifted. Because, of course, some people find it harder to be lifted than others. But I just do not recognise that it is a religious problem or an ethnic problem, I simply do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113339	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113340	I have the impression that the alternative only recognises an alternative reality that exists within the alternative heads of the alternative. For Mr. Henrik Dahl is quite right that this problem of integration is due to the totally disastrous and headless immigration policy that has been pursued from the 1980s onwards. It is a huge disaster that has happened with the attempt at population replacement. And that the alternative closes its eyes to it is just creepy. However, I recognise that we have documentation problems because no one has wanted to carry out studies in this area. Now I know that, fortunately, a qualitative study is under way on cultural clashes in high schools. Many of the things that we have are, if I may say so, anecdotal knowledge, but that is very often enough for people to pull their children out of high school or for them not to want to be there themselves. That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem for Danes that they end up in a minority in their schools? Does the rapporteur not recognise that this can be problematic and that this is where we have to go in and help the Danish families who are in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113456	Yes, I recognise that this is a problem for those who think it is a problem. I do not think that this is a problem in itself, that is to say, it must be assessed by the individual himself. There were also some of the students I spoke to at Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium, i.e. the ethnic Danish students who said: Well, sometimes it is a little difficult because many of the non-ethnic Danish students have other cultures and habits. And that was among other things. What I mentioned with the parties. So it's not that I don't recognize it. I just don't want to blame it, and I don't want to contribute to political stories that also make the Danes think that reality is different than it is out there because we politicians tell us how terrible it is. We're gonna crawl together after what we look like. Well, I think the history of the world has shown that people crawl together after the ones they look like. That's the way it is. We're gonna do that ourselves. So we just have to be careful that we do not blame anyone for being wrong when what is really at stake is that it is some political decisions and models that make the world look and the distribution look as it does today. So this is a political task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113550	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113554	So the rapporteur cannot make reality go away by saying all sorts of fine words about political tales and so on, as if we are mytomans when we say that there are cultural clash problems, that it is sad to be Danes in minorities in high schools. What is happening is that the high school sector is becoming unstable. We can see that Langka's Gymnasium is collapsing because of this because no one is going to seek it. So there is on vuc in the West, where the students migrate when they are to have ancient knowledge, because the Greek statues are not wearing bra or burka. And people are completely separated. You can just ask the students... they don't think it's funny. There is a task to be done, and the alternative rapporteur must also take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113652	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113653	Yes, but I have stood up here and said that I would like to contribute to finding out how we can adjust the distribution criteria to the high schools. So it's not like I don't take what's there seriously. I'm just challenging the reality that the Danish People's Party is referring to. I challenge the stories that come from, among other things. The Danish People's Party, in relation to the fact that it is in some way normal that there is social control at some of these high schools, and that it is normal that these high schools do not work very well because the Danish students do not like to be there. I have also been out there talking to the Danish students, with many Danish students who think that it is good, but who have some other challenges, such as... It's about the parties and stuff. So I just want to ask that when we discuss these things, the facts are on which we base our arguments. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113736	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113739	After all, the rapporteur and I generally agree when we discuss education policy. I think we have a dilemma here, in which it can be said that regard for the right of each pupil and the ability to choose his own way of training are, so to speak, at odds with Community interests. Does the rapporteur not agree that we cannot allow the upper secondary school sector alone to regulate market mechanisms, but that we need to find some way to restrict the individual's individual right to choose on some scale, because the interests of the Community mean that we have to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113825	Yes, in principle I agree with that. That is also why, when we talk about what freedom really is, I like to say that sometimes freedom is not just that you can choose freely from all shelves, but that freedom can consist in creating a framework for each individual's choices, so that in fact you have the opportunity to choose differently. If we do not vote in favour of the proposal, it is not because we do not think that there can be an idea in the matter of the distribution of districts, but to say that this should be the case, the whole of Denmark should be organised in relation to the high schools, I think perhaps not right. Because I'd rather say that those places where there is it may be that there are other places according to what I said before. So it is more to not roll a model all over Denmark, which means that you do not have the same free secondary school choice and that you can get further to high school because there may be some places where it is not necessary at all. So that is more the perspective that our 'no' should be seen in the light of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113918	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130113919	We have, of course, put some emphasis in the proposal here that there should be an opportunity to find local solutions. That is why we would like it to be put out in the regions. But what I am thinking, as Enhedslisten thinks, is that if we are to regulate this here, it is actually very sensible to say that we have a principle of subsidiarity where the starting point for each young person is: you go to school with the young people with whom you have grown up and with whom you already have a community, but there must also be a way out if you want a different direction of study if there are special personal relationships. In the rapporteur's view, is the approach of proximity not very sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114003	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114004	Indeed, and it may also be that we need to discuss it in more detail in relation to what it means in concrete terms, because what I am reading from this proposal is that if you want to create districts which are to be, you might say, roughly equal in relation to the social class which makes up the districts, you would have to have districts which are quite far apart, or residential areas which are quite far apart, which then together form a district, because otherwise it would not be possible. We cannot say: Inner city and High Taastrup and Ishøj. In other words, it must be mixed urban areas, and at least there is a distance challenge, and that is what we are worried about. But we are very interested in discussing it further. It just isn't gonna be a yes like that right from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114045	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114046	Thank you. After all, I am talking to both the high school teachers and the rectors and also to all the rectors in the country who have the problem. I have great respect for Birgitte Vedersø's idea that you should because what is the problem today is that if you do not agree, there is a right of veto and then there will be no solution. All good arguments have been brought to the negotiating table and just a little help it. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114128	Yes, we are clearly in favour of that proposal. And that is, of course, to say that we would rather see, I think, the distribution committees than they are the regional councils. But it may well be that it has to go to that level. I don't know if that should be necessary. I think that if you are on such a distribution committee, you should be able to agree. So, as I said before, you have to sit around the table until white smoke comes out of the chimney, because it is a task that is required. So, yes, we are clearly positive about that model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114156	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114157	In other words, I fully agree that the distribution committees should preferably agree and that this is the final outcome. But if there is no solution, then you can have the regional councils as the last option. It is the case that we have heard today that the committee of experts can work more quickly, and I think that is a very good thing. If this committee of experts can come up with some good solutions, will the Enhedslisten no, now I'm saying it wrong again; it's perhaps because you're alike... will the Alternative help to make a real solution quite quickly, so that we have it ready, maybe not for this school year, but for the next one?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114233	Yes, we would definitely like to be in favour of a quick solution as soon as there is a result from the committee working on it. In relation to the distribution committees and the regional councils, just to come back to that, I would like to say that when I think it is important, it is in the distribution committees, it is also because, if it should come up to the regional council level, it will become a politically governed decision. And I really think it should be a professional decision that the high schools themselves find out jointly. So that is why I feel much better that it will be the distribution committees that will have the duty to do so. But yes, we would like to be involved in a rapid-working group trying to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114310	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen. I think that the rapporteurs present have spoken on questions, and perhaps that should be well explained now. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114319	Thank you. However, this is a very important issue which we are discussing in this Chamber, so I think it is indeed important, as I said, to use the time to find out where the individual parties are actually standing. I have to say that I have some doubts about where the alternative really stands, because the rapporteur says, on the one hand, that it is important for the alternative to have a more mixed composition of pupils, and, on the other hand, I hear the rapporteur say something about the fact that we are not prepared to talk about districts. Could the rapporteur somehow shed a little more light on this? Well, what exactly is the alternative? Because I also like the free choice of school, and I also think that there is a dilemma in restricting free choice of school. As I understood the Alternative's rapporteur, the alternative also holds free school elections, but at the same time wants a more mixed composition of pupils. There are some conflicts there. What does the alternative really want?
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114420	We would like to maintain both the free choice of school and a mixed composition of pupils. I think we all feel that way. That's what I was trying to explain to mr. Jakob Silver Mound. In fact, we think that as a starting point we should try to maintain free choice of schools, and all the places in Denmark, in the regions where it might work and the composition of pupils is still mixed up, there is no reason why we should go in and regulate politically. But where there could then be problems we know that it is there in the capital, and we know that it is there in Aarhus, you can then go in and tell the distribution committees that they have a duty to do so and then use some other tools for distribution here, as they suggest in the Danish Gymnasium. We actually take a great deal of action on what they are proposing in Danish Gymnasiums, i.e. Birgitte Vedersøe's proposal, when we say that we intervene only to the extent that we can see that the distribution is biased, but until then we do not do so, because then we pay tribute to the free choice of school.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114512	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114514	So what the alternative is actually advocating is in some way that more models are made and that you can easily have a model, such as one. is used in large cities and another model used in rural areas. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that the alternative had a little difficulty with the fact that Mr. Henrik Dahl made some political stories. I really believe that most parties are making political stories, and I know that it is nice to have some facts, but I also believe that there are many examples of the alternative making political stories.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114551	Then it is the rapporteur of the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114553	Thank you. Well, that must remain as the rapporteur's claim and argument. I'm sure it does, I don't know. I sometimes find it difficult as a politician in general when we have some stories conjured up that somehow affect the population, without us actually seeing that it is rooted in some real, real figures. Well, I think we should at least make an effort to do that. That's kind of just my point. However, with regard to the other issue of what tools they need, if there is not a combination that is satisfactory, I think there should be a toolbox, and the question is, what should be in it? Are we going to decide politically, or are the high schools themselves and the distribution committees themselves going to find out? We need to talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114635	Then the story ends here. Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130114643	Thank you. Thank you for the speeches that have been made in the debate. I really think this has been an interesting debate. It may be said that all the debates in this House are, but it is not always said with the same enthusiasm, but I think that there is, in fact, a common recognition that we have a problem that needs to be lifted, and it is a place to start that there is a recognition of the problem. Otherwise, as you know, it is more difficult to find solutions. In the view of Enhedslisten, it is a hugely serious problem that we get this division of high schools. The reasons may be many, but this is largely due to students from resourceful homes seeking away from high schools in Western Denmark, in Aarhus and elsewhere that are similar, and as a result there is a concentration of young people from less resourceful environments and, to a large extent, with a different ethnic background than Danish. This is a serious problem for integration. And so I agree with the alternative rapporteur that pointing out the non-ethnic Danish population as special sinners in this context is not how we should see it. But we do not get around the fact that there is a problem with the lack of diversity, and not only does it reduce the opportunities for greater integration and diversity; it has also come to the point where it directly threatens the existence of some high schools. That is what we hear from several parts of the country: that now it has become so large that it can be difficult to continue working. In short, political action is needed. To the comments that have been made about the fact that we should not rush things and now we should not slop through, I would say, as I was also given the opportunity to say in one of my remarks to other rapporteurs, that of course we should not. We have nothing to do with the fact that we now need to make snapshot solutions which will not prove to be sustainable in a very short time. In other words, the problem is so big and so complex that we must make sure that the solutions we find do not just last a school year, but that they are actually sustainable over some time, because even if we change the rules, it may also take some time to change the reality that is out there in schools. The most important thing is that we get the action started and that we do so in very concrete terms. And I have to say, or I don't know if I have to, but at least I say that it is my opinion that the Minister for Education • how should I say this kindly • didn't do much to bring this process forward. I also have the impression that I hear the party colleague of the Minister for Education, Mr. Henrik Dahl has that it is probably due to the fact that one has the impression that, yes, it is the market mechanisms that regulate this area and that the individual's free choice, whatever its impact on the community, must be maintained. I do not want to advocate here that the individual's freedom of choice is wrong, but we just have to say that it is quite obvious here that it means that the market mechanisms that then regulate the area make it possible for us to have a pupil composition in many high schools which is quite unreasonable and which we have to change. We have proposed a model which is based on the fact that, as a prerequisite, when she or he is considering her choice of education, she thinks: I must train with those with whom I have attended primary school, those who live in my neighbourhood. I mean, it has to be a natural thing to train where you live. This cannot be the end of life; it would be a peculiar principle in our higher education. So it is not the case that there are certainly no nuances to this issue, but I think that for young people starting youth education, that is actually a good starting point. We fully recognise that it may encounter some barriers, like the young people who have been bullied for the last four years in primary school, and one might ask the question: is it really true that they should be forced to go to a high school where they live? No. We write that you have to be able to make a reasoned application as to why you want to join another district. If there is a direction of study that one is fervently concerned with in relation to what one wants in life, should it really be the case that a wall has been struck around the district so that one will never be able to choose another direction of study? No, we do not think it should be. We are fully aware that this also presents some challenges in relation to the fact that one does not choose the direction of study immediately when entering high school, but only later, but that does not change the fact that one can see which colleges offer which courses of study. I have no wish to say here that it is a piece of cake that it is all simple that there is only one solution and that it can be seen by any member of parliament, so we go that way. However, I think that there is a great deal to be said for a district model to be the bearer and that we can find a sensible way of regulating if it clearly misses individual pupils' wishes or special needs. We are also very keen that it can be regulated differently in different parts of the country. There is not necessarily the same need to regulate in West Jutland, where I have the pleasure of being elected, as there is in the West region or in East Jutland's main city. It is clear that there are different issues to be dealt with, but that is why I believe that a district model can actually be the bearer and that, from this point of view, we can give regional councils a freedom to lay down rules, more precise rules, in each region, which can be operational in relation to each local area. I hope that, out of this political debate, a majority can emerge in order to do something which, contrary to the Minister's suggestion, can actually be done relatively quickly. When we have proposed that this should have an entry into force from the school year 2020, it is not because we think it can wait until 2020, but we are going to propose that it should enter into force by the coming school year. There we have met in advance those who have said that there are limits to how quickly they can do so. However, it is imperative for us to be able to say to the high schools out there: now there will be a solution for the school year starting in 2020. And if we find a sensible solution there, we could also hope that in the foreseeable future we had a Minister of Education, who saw from the point of view of the point of view that was set there, was also able to act immediately in relation to also recording in 2019, where there are some possibilities for establishing capacity ceilings etc. After all, there is a power of ministers to go straight in and find a solution to some of the specific problems. So with a two-stage rocket, which we are getting a clear direction on, what we are doing in relation to the school year 2020, what the colleges can like to plan from, because some clear political signals have been given, and if we can do this more quickly by virtue of the ministerial powers that lie there, then that would be really brilliant. Because even if you might enjoy a number of high schools in the Aarhus area and in the West region that there is a clear signal, at the same time you will find it very regrettable that nothing is happening in relation to the school year that we are about to enter. So I hope we can do both, but the starting point, I think, in order to get a minister to act in concrete terms in relation to the current problems is enough that we are sending a pretty clear signal as to what direction this should take by 2020, otherwise I simply do not believe that this will happen. So thank you very much for the comments that have been made. I hope that this will lead us to find common solutions so that the majority that has so far been difficult to find in this Chamber can now be found for a solution which I believe will bring great joy to most of the high school world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130115600	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181130115617	From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that November 2018 was determined to December 1, 2018. The message will be printed in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 26 November 2018 states that November 1, 2018. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen/ Carl Madsen There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 4 December 2018, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
