ParlaMint-DK_20180404130015	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Marianne Jelved (RV) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a resolution on the parliamentary resolution on the clarification of the principle of parental involvement in cases of special support for children and young people subject to extreme social control. B 77). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130050	The first question is to the Prime Minister by Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. There's a co-questioner, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130107	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130109	Thank you. The question is this: does the Prime Minister think that government ministers are ministers around the clock, as the Prime Minister has said on a previous occasion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130121	Here you go. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130129	Here you go, that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130130	That was a nice short and precise answer. Then maybe we can just as accurately get through the next. For after the consultation we had with the Prime Minister on 31 January this year, a number of articles, leaders, analyses etc. were published which dealt with a total hat confusion as to whether the Prime Minister was now a private person or Prime Minister in some different contexts, particularly in relation to the Løkkefond. And that is why I need a clear answer from the Prime Minister today as to whether he is a private person when he acts in conjunction with the Løkkefond. There must also be a yes or no answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130210	This may give me an opportunity to expand on what has been said. Because I believe that the reason why I have the question is what I said at a press conference almost eight years ago, on 13 April 2010, and what I said there, of course I am completely aware, because I express the opinion that being a minister is a function that you carry around the clock all year round. This also means that I have expectations of my ministers, and I also have expectations of myself about work, about the way in which the minority profession is run, and this is popularly said 24 hours a day. But to try, like to draw it into the absurdity that it would mean that ministers have no right to privacy, is, of course, an absurdity. Because, of course, ministers also have privacy. Ministers have friends, ministers participate in association work, ministers participate in school talks, ministers have new friends and old friends and go to Easter lunch and engage in different ways, and there must be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130314	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130315	Well, the answer wasn't so clear after all, when we see it in the context of the Løkkefond. For then it was not possible to get a clear yes or no on whether the Prime Minister was a private person when he was in the context of the Løkkefond. I'm here with BT's front page, it's from March 25, 2018, and it's about a private trader...
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130338	I would just like to say that this is not the case in the Chamber. You do without effects, that is, just with the use of speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130343	I'm sorry. But that story was about a private commercial fund, which wanted to give millions to the Løkkefond, and which at the same time asks the Løkkefond to contact the Prime Minister to order him for massive publicity. This leads one of the country's leading professors, Kurt Klaudi Klausen, to say that the Prime Minister is mixing the Løkkefond and his own interests together; it shows a picture with a man of called morals and poor judgment. Is that a completely wrong description of that situation, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130410	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130411	Yes, that statement must be at the expense of the person concerned. I can say that I am completely in line with the way in which I live my life in all dimensions, and I am a very open and accessible Prime Minister and participate in a multitude of events, and there is nothing to prevent me, as Prime Minister, from also being able to take part in events initiated by a fund of general benefit. I do that from time to time. I appear in many contexts. Soon I have the pleasure of going to Brøndby, where the author's own party colleague, Morten Bødskov, has created a network of business people to support the youth work of the Brøndby Sports Association. I am going out there, and I am doing so as Prime Minister, just as I have done in certain contexts, for example. to present diplomas to boys who have passed the BoysAcademia.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130515	Thank you. Then there's an enquirer, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130518	Thank you. The Prime Minister said earlier this year at the conciliation meeting on 31 January and therefore under ministerial responsibility: is it possible to buy access to me? No, it's not. I would like to ask the Prime Minister with everything that has since been published about the matter in Weekendavisen, Ekstra Bladet, BT and a number of other media about the Prime Minister and the Løkkefonden: Does the Prime Minister today hold that statement, or does the Prime Minister consider it appropriate to clarify that explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130549	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130550	I stand by what I said in that consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130555	Here you go. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130558	The fact that the Løkkefonden in an email to the Prime Minister's Office connects a donation of money from a private commercial fund to the PM's concrete participation in an event in Esbjerg on 13 March 2017, and that the Prime Minister responds to the request as Prime Minister by showing up with the PM's tax-paid spindoctor, doesn't it question whether the Prime Minister was telling the truth, correctly expressed himself at the consultation on 31 January when the Prime Minister said: Is it possible to buy access to me? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130634	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130635	No, that doesn't question it. It is the case that I get various invitations, and so I endeavor to be approachable and to participate, and there is nothing to prevent me from visiting, as Prime Minister, an event organized by a general welfare fund, whether it is the Løkkefond or other funds, just like I have just given a reference to the event that will shortly take place out in Brøndby, initiated by the questioner's own fellow Member of the people, where, without knowing the details of it, I have a picture that some people are paying to be part of a network that supports some association work, and there I am participating. I've got an invitation, and I'm attending.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130728	Thank you. Then it's the last round to the main questioner, sir. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130732	Thank you. I must say that I think we are witnessing the old discipline of blowing and having flour in our mouths at the same time. Because you really have the experience that the Prime Minister is able to jump out of the role of Prime Minister and change hats, as it fits into the Prime Minister's own hugs. In other words, you want to stand by what was said at the conciliation meeting, and there you were skilfully private in some contexts, and eight years ago you said that you are always a minister around the clock. Both can't be right at the same time, sir. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130809	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130810	Of course it can. Well, now I can't ask Mr. Knox any questions. Simon Kollerup, but it will be an absurd game of words. Of course you have a function as a minister, you have it 24 hours a day. That is why I have expectations of my ministers; that is why I have expectations of myself to be industrious, to be available, to behave properly. Does this mean that ministers should have no privacy whatsoever, that ministers should not have friends, that ministers should not engage in association work, go to scouts; does this mean that I should not be allowed to visit the scouts' camp because I myself am a member of the KFUM scouts? Of course it doesn't. I take full responsibility for setting up a general welfare fund in 2012. I don't have a role in that fund anymore, but I've been very, very open about my involvement, and there's nothing to stop me from accepting an invitation to events in that fund, in line with the fact that I can relate to invitations from all sorts of others, whether it's Team Rynkeby who's going to ride to Paris, or a Red Cross collection or Brøndby Sports Association's youth work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130934	Thank you, and the question is closed. The next question is to the Prime Minister by Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democratic Party, and there is a fellow questioner, Christian Rabjerg Madsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130943	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130944	In what contexts does the Prime Minister think he can act as a private person and not as prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130951	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404130952	We've been through this already. In other words, I have expectations of the ministers of the governments I am in charge of, of their work, of the way in which they carry out their mini-shops at all. That is what I said a moment ago. And that also means I have expectations of myself. But that does not mean, of course, that ministers cannot perform any function other than ministerial functions. A minister has also said that I myself have a personal life with family, with children, with friends. In particular, I myself also hold a party function as chairman of a party, forming part of other relations. And there's nothing new about that. That is the case, and this has always been the case for all ministers, including the Prime Minister. That is why I find it rather difficult to understand, it can be said, the premise on this issue and, as such, the first question. It is perfectly natural for a minister to take part in events outside the ministry, and I think that is a good thing. Because if, as a minister, you just locked yourself up in the ministerial offices 24 hours a day, I think you would be missing contact with the real reality. I have been completely open about the fact that from time to time, when my time permits, in addition to my ministerial work, I also attend a large number of events and, in my case, also events associated with the LøkkeFonden. And I do so for the very same reason that I set up the fund at the time, namely that this fund raises an important social issue which I would like to address. It's about helping boys off the edge and into the community. And I will continue to do so when time permits. At the same time, I am endeavouring to be open and accessible to everyone, and I am doing so because I have a fundamental interest in people, and because I believe that the office of Prime Minister in Denmark is not just a matter of decorating it. And that also means that, as Prime Minister, I participate in a great many contexts where my presence is desired and where I think this is a purpose for which I can vouch.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131212	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131214	Thank you. It is of course interesting that the Prime Minister praises it very much to get out and be private and, at the same time, in the context of the consultation earlier this year and in other situations, believes that it does not affect him at all. It must be understood that this does not affect his political thinking at all. However, when I have asked this question, which we are now dealing with, it is of course because the explanations given by the Prime Minister so far are very confusing. Let's try to go back to Thyborøn in early 2016. The Prime Minister is going to the cod feast and pick up the big check for the LøkkeFonden, and then selected fishermen get a meeting with the Prime Minister, who is in town anyway. The meeting room, we understand, lies on top of the hall where the cod fire takes place, and on the way down the stairs the Prime Minister then becomes the private Lars Løkke. Will the Prime Minister not try to explain to us what is happening on the way down the stairs that makes it all suddenly become so private? How are people supposed to figure out when they meet the Prime Minister of the country, whether it is the Prime Minister or a private person they meet? Because I'm pretty sure people always expect it to be the Prime Minister they meet when they meet the Prime Minister. Or what about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131333	I think it is a completely absurd game of words. Well, I'm Prime Minister of Denmark. It's a function I have. I have it all the time. I am Prime Minister of Denmark. Is it, sir? Simon Kollerup believes it should be the meaning of having no privacy at all? So you must not have any friends, and you must not engage in association work? What is the consequence of what is being asked? That's what I find so incredibly hard to understand. I can just say that I'm completely open about the way I do things, and without boasting without boasting, I think it's hard historically to find a more accessible prime minister than me. And it doesn't relate to LøkkeFonden, it relates to a lot of things. Yes, please). I think I've had more than 300 Danes at Marienborg from all walks of life Yes, thank you)... to Mondays and brunch. I'm an open and accessible person.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131437	Speaking time has passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131438	Thank you. It is of course interesting that you cannot get an answer from the Prime Minister about what is happening on the way down that stairway, because that is the core example of the fact that what the Prime Minister has moved into here is indestructible. It's indestructible to be prime minister up in the conference room on the first floor and then conjure himself into a private person on the way down the stairs. The fishermen who accompanied the Prime Minister on his way down the stairs have no idea that the Prime Minister has become a private person on his way down the stairs. The chairman of the Thyborøn Fisheries Association has clearly indicated to Denmark's Radio that the fact that the meeting in Thyborøn was held was related to the donation of money to the LøkkeFonden and the participation in this cod feast. Does the Prime Minister think that this chairman of the Fisheries Association speaks untruely in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131525	Here you go. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131527	I'm a very accessible prime minister. I don't agree to all invitations, because my calendar doesn't allow that, but I'm not setting any special terms to accept an invitation. There is nothing wrong with me making myself available as Prime Minister on the basis of a request from a member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left for a discussion with some business people. There are a number of examples of this that I have done, and that is the way it should be. Is that supposed to mean I'm not supposed to get involved in anything else? Of course it doesn't mean that, and now I repeat myself: I have been completely open about the fact that in 2012 I set up a fund that I have no influence on today, but which I have a commitment to, just as I have a commitment to many other social issues. You have to keep to your speaking time!).
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131621	Here you go for the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131624	Thank you. I think it is quite excellent that we have a committed Prime Minister who participates in various events. But we have to come back to this question of whether you can buy access to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister says clearly that you can't. But in the specific case from Esbjerg, the commercial fund Lauritzen Fonden addresses the LøkkeFonden and says: We have a million dollars. The fundraiser for LøkkeFonden then writes to the Prime Minister: The Lauritz Foundation wants to give an amount, we hope that they will be future donors, and we hope that the Prime Minister can shine over an event and provide massive press coverage for the Lauritzen Foundation's donation. So it is LøkkeFonden himself who makes the connection between the Prime Minister's participation and then a donation and a future donation. And the Prime Minister chooses as Prime Minister to meet the invitation which has clearly been linked to a donation to the LøkkeFonden. Doesn't the Prime Minister see the problem of the fact that a clear connection is being made from LøkkeFonden's side between a donation to the LøkkeFonden and the PM's participation, not in Rynkeby and KFUM and everything else, but there is a clear connection here, as LøkkeFonden makes, between a donation, the possibility of future donation and then the Prime Minister's participation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131736	I think it is a very imprecise representation of things. I can just say that I relate to the invitations that I get to decide whether or not I want to respond to an invitation, and in that assessment there is no other consideration than whether or not I find this invitation relevant in relation to whether or not it is something I can vouch for. There is nothing to prevent me from accepting an invitation to come to the opening of a boys' academy completely in line with taking a position on other invitations I get. Now I have received an invitation from a network out in Brøndby, initiated by the questioner's own colleague here in the Danish Parliament, Mr. Morten Bødskov, a network of people who pay money to promote a good cause, namely youth work out in the Brøndby Sports Association. I've taken it. There's nothing unorthodox about that. But I'm gonna think they're happy about it, 'cause otherwise they wouldn't have invited me. I have, for example, completely in line with that. received an invitation from the City of Copenhagen to celebrate some boys who have passed a boys' academy. I stand by that completely, and there is nothing unorthodox about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131854	Here you go, it's 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131857	I have to say that the link between the private commercial fund giving a donation to the LøkkeFonden, and so the Prime Minister's participation is not a link I come up with. I'm not the one who invents that connection. It is the LøkkeFonden who writes to the Prime Minister that they hope to become a future firm giver, thus linking the fund's donation to the LøkkeFonden with a desire for press coverage and a desire for the Prime Minister's participation. Has the Prime Minister not dealt with whether it is problematic that there is a link between the Prime Minister's participation in an event and the fact that the LøkkeFonden gets some money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131941	I have dealt with nothing more than that, in the general calendar review that we have in the Ministry, where we take a position on the invitations that have come in, I have considered whether it would fit into the calendar to participate in the event in question, which seems to be a good event.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404131958	It's the last round. Main questioner, please. Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132000	Thank you. When this matter deserves two questions in the Parliamentary Chamber and the review it has received today, it is because it is a problem for the work of the Danish Parliament, if the Prime Minister can choose to jump out of the role of Prime Minister at his discretion and say that things are now very private, perhaps because political problems are beginning to arise around them, then it is suddenly very private, and then there is no access to ask about it. That is how the conciliation took place in January, and now we see today too that it is completely indestructible. After all, the Prime Minister cannot tell the Danes how to know which Lars Løkke Rasmussen they meet on the street... is Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen, or is the private Lars Løkke Rasmussen? No one can know. This is something the Prime Minister himself assumes the right to define.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132046	I didn't hear any question here at all, so I don't know what to answer. I'm prime minister. It's a function. I have it 24 hours a day, even when I'm asleep, because I can be awakened if something happens. I can. Can it be combined with, by the way, that I have a commitment as a person, that I participate in association parties, that I have friends? Of course it can. That requires openness about it, and I am an open and accessible person. There's never been anything stabbed under a chair. I have been completely open about the commitment I have to this specific fund. I'm also happy to post on social media. I feel quite confident that the Danes can see through what I am to a person, and I stand by what I have done. It would have been easier not to make that fund. It had, and I wouldn't have been here today. But then there were quite a lot of boys who hadn't received a handout.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132151	That concludes the question. The next question is for the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132158	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132204	Thank you. The question is: how will the Minister ensure that the importance of the cultural clash between Islam and Christianity and the resulting problems for democracy in Denmark is included in the so-called democratic formation measures launched by the Minister, but where the cultural clash in question does not appear?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132224	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132235	I am very aware of the cultural clashes taking place in our educational institutions, and in this respect it is very important that we are not afraid of the challenges. I fully recognise that democratic education is challenged by non-Western immigration and that there is a need for more Islam criticism in our primary school and education system. Religious criticism must be an integral part of our teaching. It has been for many years, and it must be in relation to religions other than the Christian; as I have said, it is already in relation to Christianity. I would like, among other things, to have the courage to discuss in classrooms the difficult discussions about the views of religious texts on gender equality, Jews and homosexuals. I have set up a forum for dialogue on democratic education, which has made recommendations to me for initiatives to promote democratic education. They propose, among other things:: Youth education must not be value-neutral, but must actively promote democracy and reject, for example: Totalitarian ideologies. It must be signalled that the institutions cannot be value-neutral in meeting undemocratic values. And it is important that the institutions deal with controversial issues. I agree with that. The recommendations have been submitted to stakeholders for consultation, as have they been discussed in the high school circle, and I am looking into which initiatives I will go further. It is my concern that the initiatives put into the sea really meet and have an impact on the challenges of cultural clash and democratic formation in educational establishments. I don't think it's a challenge we're gonna solve with a snap. It's more like a long, cool move.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132416	Thank you. And here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132418	Thank you for your reply and also thank you for the initiative taken by the Minister. I would like to pay tribute to that, because I think it is excellent that these problems are addressed. And I am also well aware that there will be further negotiations in this matter, so that hopefully we will have more influence on which of these measures will be taken seriously. However, I also think it is important to make it clear that there is, after all, a difference in the thinking of the party I come from, the Danish People's Party, and the thinking of the Liberal Alliance. Because it is the case that when there are so-called democratic problems here in schools, it is because, as something new in the last 30 years, there has been a culture and a religion in the country which counteracts the freedom that we are used to in Denmark and which comes from Christianity. So that is what is at the heart of the problem. And that is why we also need to signal that it is Danish culture and tradition of freedom that must be the cornerstone of our schools. That is why we believe that it is better, for example. banning Islamic joint prayer, closing prayer rooms and banning Islamic scarves in order to allow for Danish freedom than it is doing many of the things that have been suggested among the actions of this dialogue group, where, for example, we have to ban Islamic joint prayers, shut down prayer rooms and ban Islamic scarves in order to allow for Danish freedom. wants more pupils to participate in student councils and other democratic processes. At the same time, we believe it is important for education to make a clear distinction between the Islamic and the Christian view of human beings, so that it becomes clear to everyone that the Christian view of human beings is one that can bear a democracy, for example. considers all people to be equal, while the Islamic puts obstacles in the way of it. There must be no anxiety about understanding the core of the problem. We therefore believe that it is necessary to realise that the problem comes from an anti-freedom message and that in Denmark we have a school based on another message. That is why we believe that our freedom and democracy are best defended at the border with a strict foreign policy and with the things I mentioned earlier by closing praying rooms and closing the possibility of keeping Islamic common prayers in schools, etc. etc. I would like to know if the Minister does not agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132659	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132700	Thank you. To begin with, it is true that the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are quite different parties on some aspects, which have different starting points for making our policy. Where we are then the same is in the analysis that there are cultural clashes both at primary and secondary schools, which also stem from religious conflicts, i.e. simply values, ways of acting, which are quite different according to the value of one's source. So we agree on that analysis. What should we do then? I also agree that student advice doesn't just solve all this. And what we can then meet about discussing: What are some further steps that we, both parties • Liberal Alliance and the government as a whole and the Danish People's Party can stand up for? And there I am sure we can find some measures to strengthen the basic elements both of our primary school and of our upper secondary education and to clean them up so that we are stronger in the cultural clashes that are actually taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132803	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132805	Of course, I hope that this can be done. Because what I'm afraid you're losing in this process is the basic understanding of what's at stake, i.e. that it's these two different human visions that come together, and the idea that when you have a religion of law, people can't decide the rules. In other words, it is ultimately a religious conflict that we have. This is clear from the studies that have been carried out, from what the problems are. And so it is also the case that when we have to take action against them, we have to use that knowledge, and that is where I think something is missing. We have to say that all students must have this knowledge and be able to gain this understanding that it is a religious problem that we face and then, of course, also introduce measures that can dampen the negative influence of a religious behavior contrary to normal Danish behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132909	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132910	Well, as I said, I think we can reach each other a long way from an analysis of what is at stake, for example. a completely different understanding of, for example. the position of women in society, the status of women, the rights of women as individuals, rights over their own bodies, etc. But how should we intervene? And that is where I would also urge the Danish People's Party to come up with very concrete proposals that we can then discuss to strengthen democratic formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132943	Here you go for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404132945	Yes, we would very much like to do so, and so have we. And we think it's a little grotesque, for example. I think it is okay that there is room for prayer in educational institutions, which we know very well are being used exclusively for Islamic joint prayer, while at the same time in another room we can say that we have a very big problem in terms of democratic formation and that we do not equate men and women. But inside the prayer room, we have just quoted from the Koran, where men are said to be worth more than women. That is not all, of course, and that is why we believe that practical steps must also be taken, which are the ones we have proposed in a motion for a resolution which, unfortunately, we have not seen the Minister's support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133029	Last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133030	Well, I have said quite clearly, and I am happy to do so again, that I do not think that prayer room is a good idea, either in schools or in upper secondary education. I have also sent out a shepherd's letter calling for careful thought to be given to it before it is set up, because one can see that it also causes conflict. And making room for prayer is not one of the core tasks of schools and education. So that's my position, and I've communicated it clearly. But the attitude of the government is also that this is not something we should legislate for; it is also a local responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133108	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Culture from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133120	The question is: What is the Minister's view that the Palace and Culture Board has granted an exemption and thus permission to build new ones on top of the old fortification walls on the protected area around Nyborg Castle, while the same board has refused to disarm the Viking Ship Museum's building, so that there can be a remodeling and remodeling for the 1,000-year-old Viking ships?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133155	Thank you for the question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify both the differences and the similarities between the two cases. In relation to the Viking Ship Museum, I shall begin by saying, for the sake of good order, that I alone will reproduce the opinions of the Special Buildings and Slots and the Danish Cultural Authority in the matter, but will not relate to it or explain my own assessments. As you know, this is because there is a complaint about the preservation of the Viking Ship Hall under examination in the Ministry of Culture and that I would like to avoid being disenchanted in that matter. Both in the case of Nyborg Castle and in the case of the Viking Ship Museum, the Special Building Syn and the Danish Palace and Culture Authority have actually been prepared to make extensive restorations and additions. In the case of the Viking Ship Museum, the owners have applied for a decomposition, not for a permit for building changes to the Viking Ship Hall. Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has in its decision maintained the conservation. The decision of the Danish Board of Directors reveals that the Danish Parliament and I quote: "Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen have finally at the Viking Ship Museum's wish for future development and up-to-date dissemination etc. Thus, the board is in favour of an extension with all the desired square meters through additions to the Viking Ship Hall on its three land pages, so that the museum can add contemporary communication facilities etc. In addition, it is clear from the decision of the Danish authorities that • and I quote again: • A number of areas have been identified in the interior and exterior of the Viking Ship Hall, which should be restored, so that the house's climate shield can protect the ships... Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen recognizes this need and is happy to engage in dialogue with the Viking Ship Museum in order to find the most suitable solutions. The Viking Ship Museum does not see all this as an option, which is why they have appealed against the decision, and this is the complaint procedure that is now taking place. If we go to Nyborg Castle...
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133417	No, we do not, because the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133420	Thank you. This is quite an interesting matter, because Nyborg Castle and Nyborg city are protected, at least for large parts. There have been plans to rebuild the entire facility around Nyborg Castle, including the violence. Architect Clemmensen's project was unfortunately interrupted and shot down by the Madsen-Mygdahl government which was a liberal government as far back as the 1920s. Otherwise, we would have had a completely finished violence facility. So, after an architect's competition, the board has now authorized a completely new, modern building to be built on top of the ruins of the existing violent system. What is interesting is that the Viking Ship Museum is a relatively new building from the 1960s. It's a concrete building, it's falling down, and the owners have wanted to disarm it. For me, there is a different approach on the part of the board. What is new and modern is something you want to preserve. We do not want to disarm this, so that a new building can take place, while we want to allow what is old to be replaced up to 500 years old, perhaps even 800 years old, because that is what is happening and, at the same time, a new building. So it seems as if the board would rather see new preserved than old preserved, and that in my view is problematic. I would actually like to ask the Minister to give us a single strategy on the part of the administration. I think it seems a little like it's depending on who's inside the case. After all, it is no secret that the winner of the architectural competition for the construction of the new visitor centre at Nyborg Castle is also President of the Special Building View, as the Minister has mentioned. So I think maybe the minister should look at what's going on, both in the Danish Palace and Culture Agency and in the Special Building View.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133625	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133627	Thank you. Now it is the case that officials must manage according to the current rules and legislation, and unless otherwise demonstrated, I am confident that this will actually happen. But in the case of Nyborg Castle it is a restoration which is in any case necessary because there are very major problems with the building, both in terms of stability, but also in terms of rot and fungus. In order to convey the importance of this medieval castle, some new buildings are built to understand the original four-wing facility. And for the king's wing to be experienced as authentic as possible, communication and audience facilities are placed in the new buildings. But what is important here is that the building is, in fact, placed on top of a protected memory of the past, but at the same time it does not destroy anything. Many exploratory studies have been carried out on the new building, and the protection of cultural heritage is also being taken into account, although new ones are now being built. There is no building directly on top of the old walls, because there are stake foundations between them. So the new building has been lifted out of the ruins, and that part of it I think is very important to bring here. I think, moreover, that we should be very careful to compare cases as different as these, although, of course, I agree with the questioner that administrative practices must be transparent and comprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133755	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133756	After all, this is a fantastic project that is going on around Nyborg Castle. Two funds are firing 200 million. kr. in, municipalities and state approx. 80 million kr. Then there is also a little from other places, so combined you can ensure Nyborg Castle a continuous renovation, and that's all very good. The City of Nyborg is also behind this. What I'm really just sensitive to is the different approach that is from Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen (Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen). I find it very difficult to understand why the Viking Ship Museum's request to disenchant the building so that we can get a new building, as is also being done around Nyborg Castle. That would be of benefit to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133838	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133840	Thank you. Of course, I'm taking note of you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's views, just as I take note of a number of other views on this issue. As I said, the complaint about the Viking Ship Museum is under consideration, and that is why I cannot speak unless I want to make myself ill-advised, and I do not. That is why we must wait for the proceedings before taking the further steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133905	Of course, I understand that. When the matter is closed, could it be imagined that the Minister would like to look at whether the management of these cases is one-sided, whether there can be a tightening-up and whether we should look at the practice of the Special Building View?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133925	We are constantly discussing how the administrative basis is to be, after all, a political debate. In addition, we are, of course, keeping an eye on how governance is as it should be. I would like to say that I am not going to deal with the specific issues in the specific case of the complaint, but if Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, at a later stage, wants to discuss it, is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen of course welcome to it, and then we will have to look at it then.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404133951	Thank you. That concludes the question. The last question is to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134000	Sir. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134001	Thank you, Madam President. On the question: what is the Minister's view that the independence of the Havari Commission has been called into question in connection with a DSB case where a woman got her arm pinned on a running IC3 train?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134019	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134020	I understand that the question has been raised on the basis of an article in Berlingske Business dated 14 November 2016. The article is part of a series of articles from autumn 2016 that I have previously dealt with in a closed consultation on 2 February last year. I can tell you that my position on the question of the independence of the Havari Commission has not changed since then. It is clear from the legislation in the railway sector that the Havari Commission is an independent authority. It is not subject to instructions from the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Furthermore, the Commission is independent of all infrastructure managers, railway undertakings, authorities and all other parties whose interests may conflict with the tasks assigned to the investigating commission. The Commission also acts independently of the Safety Authority of the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority and all bodies responsible for regulating the railway sector. The Maritime Commission uses a working method in which the actors involved in a given accident or incident are involved during the investigation process. In this way, they will have the opportunity to act proactively and as soon as possible on the basis of the information that is continuously clarified in the study. This working method is in line with the provisions of the Railway Safety Directive, which states that safety investigations are carried out with the greatest possible transparency, so that all parties are given the opportunity to be consulted and informed of the results. Against this background, my position is still the same as I expressed in the consultation on 2 February 2017, namely that I do not see that the independence of the Havari Commission should be compromised when a party in an ongoing investigation has views on a matter of which they are part. The Maritime Commission, as I have explained before, is independent of both the Minister and also industry and other authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134214	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134215	In 2016, according to Statistics Denmark, there were 272 million passengers on the Danish grid. The total freight transport work was 2.6 billion. so-called tonne-kilometres, which means the weight of the goods times the distance travelled. According to the Havari Commission's annual report for 2017, the Havari Commission's railway unit had two years' work available. According to the Havari Commission's own annual report, the Railway Unit received 119 notifications in 2017, 30 of which were suicides, and the Havari Commission did not initiate an investigation into them. Of the remaining 89 notifications, only 10 of these were subject to further investigations. The selection criteria are not set out in the annual report. Add to this that the Havari Commission, which previously had four years' work in the railway unit, has had its staff reduced by two years' work, and instead uses the Havari Commission external consultants. Neither the study reports, annual reports nor the Havari Commission's website show who the external consultants are and how the Havari Commission has ensured that the external consultants are impartial. It is, however, an important factor in creating openness and thus tranquillity around the work of the Havari Commission. It is the Minister's responsibility that the Havari Commission should function so that the Havari Commission can act as an independent public supervisory body in which citizens can have confidence. In this context, I would like to know whether the Minister has made sure that the 79 notifications which have not led to further investigations are publicly available.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134414	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134417	There was a reason why we changed back in 2017 in the way that the Havari Commission is organised. For a long period of time there had been criticism in the public and employees, and we found that by putting a health and safety consultant on it we felt that there was a really bad working climate in the Havari Commission at that time. The Council from the consultant was to reduce the number of staff, because there were too many staff who did not have enough work and therefore spent time fighting each other. Therefore, it was necessary to reduce the number of employees and instead use external consultants when needed. This would lead to a better working environment in the Havari Commission. So that's what Mr. Jan Erik Messmann explains, that is to say, that the number of employees has decreased and instead uses external consultants, is justified by the fact that it should provide a better working environment in the Havari Commission, with which there were major problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134517	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134518	When the Havari Commission has then changed its practice and uses external consultants in connection with e.g. In this connection, has the Minister made sure that the external consultants are completely independent and that the consultants meet the extensive professional requirements of staff working on investigations at the Havari Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134547	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134548	Because the Havari Commission is independent of both me and the board, it operates independently. In other words, as a minister, I do not have to check whether one type of consultant or another type of consultant is used. I don't have to keep an eye on whether these are the right consultants. There I have to have confidence that the Havari Commission, independently of me, can find out how to hire the consultants who are the right ones. However, I can tell you that, in all the publicity that was then given, we asked the European Railway Agency to speed up an independent audit, called something like that, of our Havari Commission here at home. And the independent audit will take place in the autumn of this year, and then we will have a good idea of whether things are going as they are going to be in the Havari Commission, which I have no reason to doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134645	Thank you. It's the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134647	As a professional pilot, I have also had a great deal to do with the Havari Commission, because they have to do with both air accidents and train accidents. And there's been a lot of mess in the Havari Commission for many years. I just recommend to the Minister that we look at this in an extra way so that we can sort things out and see what needs to be done in the best way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134710	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134711	There has been, and there has been a lot of controversy in the media. There are staff groups who have fought against other staff groups, etc. But the right way to do this is to use the European Railway Agency to look at our entire Havari Commission here at home over our shoulder and then let us know whether things are as they should be or whether things are not as they should be. I expect things to be as they should be. Thank you to the Minister). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134739	The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134748	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Education first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404134811	With B 68, the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal requiring the government to implement the necessary regulatory changes by the end of 2018 which mean that state grants to free schools, where more than half of the pupils have a foreign background, are conditional on the school in question being able to demonstrate that it does not counteract the integration of foreign pupils into Danish society. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. The government will not accept that schools which do not meet the requirements of the Free School Act for freedom and public administration receive state subsidies. Therefore, in November we concluded an agreement with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, less than six months ago to strengthen the supervision of the free primary schools. There are ten initiatives in the agreement, including: the whistleblower scheme, prohibition of anonymous donations over DKK 20,000, stronger supervision of the requirement of independence and more unannounced supervision. The agreement also includes an authorisation system for new free primary schools. It's a new way of thinking. The scheme is intended to ensure that new schools from the first day meet the freedom and rule requirements of the Free School Act. A working group has been set up to propose what criteria should be emphasized when new free primary schools are to be approved. I think we should let the working group make its proposal. With the November 2017 agreement, we also ensure that in matters relating to the rule of liberty and the rule of the people, there must be an opportunity to decide immediately, that is. Without prior increased supervision, a school can no longer be a free primary school under the law of free school and therefore not receive state subsidies. The supervision of schools' compliance with the requirement for freedom and popular rule has also been strengthened in the context of two political agreements in spring 2016. The government can see that the austerity is working. There are several schools which have been deprived of the State grant and a number of further schools have been placed under enhanced supervision with focus on, among others, the following: The demand for freedom and democracy and the requirement for independence. The November 2017 agreement will be translated into the bill that we first dealt with on 15 March this year. These are therefore specific measures which the following parties have agreed with the government on: the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. It is an agreement on concrete instruments that have not yet been implemented. In other words, I believe that the agreements reached must be put into effect before new resolutions are tabled. In relation to the proposal submitted, it is assessed that there are no immediate objective and proportional reasons for discrimination against free primary schools, where more than half of the pupils have a foreign background and which, moreover, meet the requirements of the Free School Act, including the requirement of freedom and the rule of the people. The proposed grant condition, which includes, inter alia: from the background of the students, raises important questions in relation to the prohibition of discrimination in section 70 of the Constitution. In section 70 of the Constitution, it is among other things. It is clear that no one can be deprived of access to the full enjoyment of civil and political rights by reason of his descent. The proposal also raises important questions in relation to Denmark's international obligations, i.e.: Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in conjunction with Article 2 of the Additional Protocol on the right to education and training. Discrimination under the European Convention on Human Rights is justified only if it pursues a worthy purpose of recognition. Furthermore, there must be proportionality between the means employed and the objective pursued. It is the government's opinion that this is not the case with the proposal put forward. The government shares the Danish People's Party's ambition to put an end to free schools that work against integration and the whole value base that is completely expected to be used in school. We have also taken concrete steps to do so. However, significant new steps have already been agreed in this context, namely as late as November 2017, and we must allow room for the new initiatives to work. And I would just like to say, for the sake of good order, that any new measures must, of course, be within the framework of the Constitution and the international conventions. We are probably the first government to make such a systematic effort to ensure that the demands of freedom and the rule of the people are respected, and we will continue to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135254	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135257	Thank you. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we also acknowledge the cooperation we have with the Minister to strengthen the supervision of Muslim free schools, but that is not what this resolution is about. It has been put forward because the Socialists have proposed it in the media but have not had time to put it forward themselves. The question then is why does the government say no to it? The government's ghetto plan on page 25 states that a ceiling of 30% will be set. I would like to know why we are not just saying 'yes' to this motion for a resolution. The government's ghetto plan contains not only public day care institutions, but indeed private ones too. So the government can actually do what it does in the ghetto plan and say yes to this resolution, because it is basically the same thing. It's about the private free schools. There is a parallel between the government's ghetto plan and this proposal. Why don't you say yes to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135404	I very much appreciate the close and good cooperation with the Danish People's Party, I do, but I also think it is a duty to give agreements the time they should have. As I just said in my speech, it is the case that the agreement of November 2017 was translated into the bill that we first dealt with on 15 March this year. It is not long ago that we have been standing here law-reading material that is going to work. And it is my responsibility as Minister, both to keep within the obligations we have in relation to the Constitution and international law, but also to do things properly in relation to the people who have to work with the law. That is why I think it is rather premature to come forward with this motion for a resolution. I understand that the Danish People's Party is going to table a motion for a resolution which clarifies the intention, but at the same time I am also seeking to say the long-suffering that actually enables us to get the things we have adopted together and which are very good to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135523	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135524	I would ask the Minister to answer my question: why has the government set a ceiling of 30% in its ghetto plan? In the same way, why can we not say 'yes' to this proposal, which is basically the same thing: it is just about private free schools? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135551	In the government's ghetto plan, more children and young people with migrant background come into the day institutions, all the time when you make a move, simply dragging more children into the day institutions. It is not a grip I, as a liberal, would normally be particularly pleased with, but we do so specifically because there are some children here who are at risk of being let down. This means greater pressure on some day institutions, which is why we have taken the consequences and made regulation. It is a balance how much regulation you have to make. What I am very concerned about is that we are making an intervention in terms of integration, which is effective, but that we are also not bothering the citizens, as they are most. So that is the reason for the day-care grip you make there. With regard to the motion for a resolution which is on the table, the assessment is that it is on a collision course with the obligations we have, moreover, legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135650	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135653	Thank you. The minister mentioned a working group to look at this area and see if more could be done. So the question will be whether the minister will then be prepared for this proposal if it is that one does not want to support it here and now, and that the working group could then assess whether it was something that could be introduced at a later stage. Because I assume we agree that in terms of integration and so on. The best thing would be if we could shut down all the schools we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135721	Sir. Martin Henriksen is not normally in the field of education, which is why I would like to pick up. For what we have done is that we have set up a working group which should not come up with proposals in the East and the West, but which should define in concrete terms what it is that we must ensure when we allow a new school to start. This is a complete change in the way you start free school in Denmark, because today you can just inform the Ministry of Education that you start a free school. You will not be able to do so in the future, you will have to submit some kind of application, and it will have to be verified. This means that you are not allowed to start a free school at all if you cannot, what should you say, verify that you can live up to the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135808	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135809	But there would surely be nothing to prevent the Minister from doing so, for example. takes the view that it would make sense for the working party to also look at whether the resolution that is here could be implemented at a later stage. The Minister could ask the working party to evaluate this. I am sure that there will be no opposition to it, because you can hear from the rhetoric that is around that people really think there are some good tactics in it. You just cannot support the proposal as it stands. So will the Minister ask the working party to do so? That is one question The second question is: the Minister said it was premature. So this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party comes too quickly, one must understand. Is it just a question of when the proposal will enter into force? Because we can easily discuss whether the proposal should come into force at a later stage, a time when it might be more convenient for the government and when the government has then had time to work it through properly. So, if it is a question of when the motion for a resolution will come into force, we can of course discuss it. Is the Minister prepared to discuss when it will enter into force? And if it is that we might move the time when it will come into force, will it make it perhaps more willing to support it on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404135911	Thank you. The working group I mentioned is a working group of researchers and various religious experts and school-qualified people who must define what it is that is needed if you are to be allowed to start a free primary school. It is a difficult balancing exercise because the Constitution says that you must start a free primary school. So this is something they need to think carefully about. But that would not be relevant, it might be said, to put this motion for a resolution in that working group. In relation to the hasty nature of this, it is simply that I think there is a proper thing in that when you have made joint agreements, you also let those agreements work. That's usually the way we work in the Folketing. And perhaps I also miss to some extent the fact that those parties which are very active in this area recognise that there is in fact a government which systematically goes in and regulates this area in quite a different way than has been seen so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140005	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140009	Thank you. Can the Minister help me clarify where the Constitution says that you are entitled to a free school or private school offer and that you are entitled to finance a free school or private school offer? Because I don't remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140030	I do not remember the way the wording is, I can send it to the SF rapporteur. But it is, of course, the citizen's right to start a free primary school, which is defined in the constitution, and that is really essential. Then the free primary schools function in a society such as the Danish one, so that there must also be a balance in the fact that all possible different types of parents must be able to choose a free primary school, and that is among other things. That's why we've raised the clutch rate. It is because we do not think that the free primary schools should only be for people who are well salvaged.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140105	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140107	I think we're gonna have to do a study circle like this together, where we're gonna figure out what it really is. As I remember, there is compulsory education, but I am not sure that the basic law states that you have the right to start a free school and get subsidies for it. In any case, it is surely the politicians who decide what it is that we want to spend taxpayers' money on what we want to subsidise. And what I think is a little interesting without completely agreeing with everything in this proposal is that this proposal is intended to prevent us from spending tax dollars on anything that prevents integration. To counteract integration may well be something other than breaking with the demands of freedom and the rule of the people. Does the Minister think that there is a difference between 1) preventing integration and 2) breaking the demands of freedom and the rule of the people, because for me these are two different things?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140153	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140154	In other words, when we have free primary schools in Denmark, it is because citizens themselves must be able to help define what kind of school they are. That is why I think we should be very careful about sitting in here and suddenly start to regulate in detail what kind of school they have to deliver, because then we no longer have free primary schools. But it is clear that when it comes to the overall framework of the law, for example. If you have to provide school on a democratic basis, that is perfectly reasonable and I have no problem with depriving schools that do not deliver on that agenda of their subsidies. And so have we.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140231	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140251	Thank you. The proportion of pupils in Muslim free schools has increased sharply in recent years, from approx. 3,500 to about 5,500 in less than a decade, and we think that is worrying. Because it shows that children are growing up more and more separately on the basis of ethnicity and religiousness. We have an integration policy in this country. In fact, we were the first country in the world to have a real integration law. It was adopted while Social Democrat Thorkild Simonsen was Minister of the Interior in the late 1990s, and basically it is based on the idea that politicians must actively intervene to ensure that the people who come here are spread throughout society to become an active part of society, to become citizens. Being a citizen is a good concept, for it signals more than merely that man is present and accepts the society that surrounds him. It signals participation. In fact, I very much agree with the new German Minister for the Interior, Horst Seehofer, who recently said to a German newspaper: 'Muslims must live with us, not next to us or against us. To achieve this, we need mutual understanding and consideration. You only get that if you talk to each other. That conversation is weakened by the increasing division that is taking place in society. Muslim free schools are not the cause of this division, but they strengthen the trend, not because they are Muslim, but because they attract virtually only children from families with roots abroad. It undermines the integration policy of the Folketing, it undermines the ambition of social democracy for citizenship, and it weakens cohesion and hence solidarity in society. And this is even happening with a strong and increasing state subsidy. It is untenable in the long run, it must be seen by everyone. The debate about Muslim free schools is not just in Denmark. It also exists in our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, a number of cases with Muslim free schools have led several parties, including the Swedish social democracy, to completely ban them, while in Norway there are no Muslim free schools at all, because Norwegian legislation has already taken into account the avoidance of this. That is why we Danish Social Democrats have been working for some time to secure mixed schools. We do not want parallel education systems where students with a foreign background are increasingly going to some schools, while pupils with a Danish background are going to others. Our proposal has been that no state aid will be paid to free schools, where the majority of pupils are either immigrants themselves or have two parents who are immigrants. We ourselves wanted the government to call the parties of the Folketing to debate this, so that we could have a comprehensive review of the subsidy system and a political agreement that takes account of the dilemmas that will naturally arise in the context of such a change of law. We have also raised the demand in connection with the negotiations just mentioned by the Minister. But the ruling parties, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberals, have not wanted that. We think that is a pity. We believe that such a debate could have clarified a number of important issues. That is, for example, the case. It is essential for us that a new system of grants, which in practice will deprive these free schools of support, does not lead to the entire integration responsibility of the surrounding primary schools alone for the pupils from the so closed free schools. We therefore believe that a number of initiatives should be followed by the implementation of such a proposal. One could, for example: discuss whether the municipalities should have the authorising right to the other free and private schools located in the municipality. It is also crucial for us that relations with both the constitution and international conventions are described so that we ensure a model that remains within their framework. When the government rejects negotiations on this, we are positive that the Danish People's Party is now raising the matter here in the Assembly Hall. We are also pleased that the Danish People's Party shares our desire to ensure a good integration of children of foreign origin. We therefore welcome the motion for a resolution which will oblige the government to draw up a genuine legislative proposal and we plan to vote in favour. Finally, I would just like to say that we must also remember who this discussion is really about, namely the children. Our task here at Christiansborg is to ensure these children a good future in Denmark, their own country, and this is best done with the rest of us. And then ideological shyness to regulate private schools must take a step back. And in those words, we can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140705	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140708	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I need to ask whether the Social Democrats want mixed schools so much that they are also prepared to actually violate the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140730	No, and that is why we are also pleased with the note from the Ministry of Justice which does not deny that the motion for a resolution tabled here will not be in breach of the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140742	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140744	Apparently, there are several ways to read that note. I see it that way when I read the note we have received from the Ministry of Justice that we are going to violate the Constitution and, for that matter, the European Convention on Human Rights, if it is the case that we are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. I am rather shocked by the fact that a large party such as the Social Democratic Party is actually prepared to go so far, also because, among other things, it is a great party. Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has previously said to Altingen that you lie down flat and vote against if it is such that it is contrary to the Constitution. That is why I must say that this is surprising, and I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur, who is on the floor today, agrees with what he says. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has previously spoken in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140837	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140838	I don't know if we've read the same memo from the Justice Department. In other words, if the Ministry of Justice considers that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is contrary to the Constitution, then I think they should have written it in that note. That's not what it says. In fact, the wordings contained in that note are very similar to the wordings we have heard in the last ten years of the burka debate, which has ended up with a bill coming from the government. So I'm actually feeling pretty safe. What we are doing today is, after all, dealing with a resolution requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal, and we take it as a complete matter of course that the government will not table a legislative proposal that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights or the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140921	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404140924	I am a little shocked that a large party in the Folketing as the Left can read a note from the Ministry of Justice quite wrong, because it does not say, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen says, that it is contrary to the Constitution or to the Convention on Human Rights. On the contrary, it is clearly stated by the Ministry of Justice that it raises important questions. What is the position of the Social Democratic Party that one of the parties reads this note so differently from the rest of us, and does the rapporteur not think that this note really opens up the possibility that it is the Folketing that has to make a decision? For the lawyers clearly say that it raises important questions, but they do not say that it is contrary to the Constitution. They have also said that it is you politicians who are going to adopt this; it is a political issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141022	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141023	As I also said in my speech, it is crucial for us that the legislation always stays within the framework of the Constitution and the European rules on human rights. Therefore we were also happy when we read the memo from the Ministry of Justice which we think is more clear in the spit than the notes we have previously seen from the Ministry of Education. So we feel for quite a safe reason, and in any case a legislative proposal that is being tabled is only following on from the bill that we are amending the Danish legislation • will also be in accordance with both the Constitution and the Convention. So I actually consider a little the questions from the Left here as an indication that the party can see that they have politically ended up on the wrong side of the line. For anyone familiar with the development of Muslim free schools knows well that it undermines the integration policy pursued by a very broad majority of parliament for two decades now. That is why I am quite convinced that this debate will end with us having rules that will look like them in our neighbouring countries. In other words, we have to move towards ensuring that in all schools, whether primary or private, the majority of pupils come from families with Danish backgrounds, so that we get to know each other in this country and that we do not live in parallel next to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141140	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141141	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Mattias Tesfaye has read the note in the same way that we have in the Danish People's Party. Thus there are two major parties who are now reading the Ministry of Justice's note in such a way that it is quite clear that it is not contrary to the constitution or the conventions. What is the rapporteur's view that the government is so stubbornly claiming that it is contrary to the Constitution, when the memorandum says the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141212	I can hear where the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is going, but I have no need to polemicise against the government. I would just like to say that we are pleased with the note, because it allows the Folketing to change the legislation towards what the Social Democrats want, namely that we should go to school together, and it also means that only these millions of state subsidies are paid to schools which can prove that they have a mixed composition of pupils. We do not need payments from the millions-of-pound treasury to schools that undermine the integration policy of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141242	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141247	Thank you. You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off in this Chamber. Now it will suddenly be a discussion whether or not this proposal is contrary to the Constitution, but we could also take up and deal with what the Ministry of Justice actually writes. I would actually like to read it out, because it sounds as though there is some doubt about it, but what is stated in the note from the Ministry of Justice is that it is estimated that a withdrawal of the state grant, with the reference to a certain proportion of pupils having a foreign background, will be an indirect discrimination. Finally, it is considered that this is also the case if a special condition is introduced, which should only apply to free schools with a share of pupils with a foreign background of more than 50%, and state aid is then conditional on the free school concerned being able to demonstrate that it does not impede integration. It is in the light of the foregoing that the immediate assessment by the Ministry of Justice raises important questions in relation to Paragraph 70 of the Constitution. How can Parliament's largest party agree to a motion for a resolution which raises important questions on the basis of Article 70 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141357	We have a problem in adopting legislation that is contrary to the Constitution. We have no problem with important questions being raised as long as there are answers which clearly state that it is within the framework of the Constitution and the Conventions. This note looks like a lot of the notes we have seen in the field of foreigners over the past many years, which I think is quite fair to say with a legal background that there is something to be discussed here, but if it was the lawyers' opinion that the resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party was contrary to the Constitution, then it would be one hundred percent in this note. So we're reading this as if we're on pretty safe ground, and if the alternative reads it differently, they're gonna have to follow that position, but it's not ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141439	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141443	I'll read it another way. I find it very worrying and serious when our country's Ministry of Justice, in a reply to the Parliamentary Education Committee, writes that a resolution raises important issues in relation to the Constitution. I take that very seriously. What if I read it and thought it didn't say it was contrary to the Constitution, so I can agree to it. Should this be a precedent for the way we adopt legislation in the Folketing, that is, if it says that something raises important issues in relation to the constitution, is that okay, whatever we are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141524	There's no need to panic. What we are discussing now is a motion for a resolution. I very clearly signal both in my rapporteur's speech and in the answers I now give that, if we are to support a legislative proposal, it must, of course, remain within the framework of the constitution and international conventions. What we are discussing today is a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party which instructs the government to draft such a bill. We'll take it easy. If, in the course of drafting such a bill, there is a need to answer these important questions, and I suppose that is the case, then we expect that both in the preparation of the bill and in the context of the consultation round of such a bill, the essential questions will also be answered. If it ends up with a conclusion which says that this is not possible and that we, as the only Scandinavian country, cannot implement it within the framework of the Constitution, we cannot, of course, support it. That's not where we are now. What we have to deal with is whether we want millions of state crowns to be sent in the direction of something that prevents integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141616	Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141620	On page 4 of the Ministry of Justice's assessment, it says that the withdrawal of state grants to free schools constitutes a deprivation of access to a civil right. After all, it takes serious and objective reasons to deprive people of their civil rights. If such serious and objective reasons do not come out, what are we going to say to correct it and then recognise that the way in which civil rights are being deprived is unspeakable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141655	Thank you for the question. As I just replied to the previous rapporteur, it will be crucial for the Social Democratic Party whether the Ministry of Justice considers that a bill would be contrary to the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights, and if the Ministry of Justice considers that it would be if that bill were adopted, we will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141715	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141718	But it was something else I asked about. I asked about the relationship between objective and unbiased reasons. In other words, if we come to the conclusion that this is an unspeakable reason for depriving civil rights, will we accept from the Social Democrats that we have been too quick to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141736	No, I don't think you can put it up like that. As the rapporteur also indicated in his first question, there may well be objective and serious reasons for restricting certain rights, for example. the right to establish a free school with a particular composition of pupils. There just needs to be some proper arguments. As I read it in relation to this motion for a resolution, at least the Ministry of Justice does not write in this document that it is untrue and not heavy enough reasons for depriving that right. So, as I said before, if it turns out in the drafting of a legislative proposal that this would be contrary to the Constitution, we will of course not support such a bill. We'll take that as something quite natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141821	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141826	Thank you. Yes, you can obviously read and interpret the note in many ways. I really think it might be a little interesting to know exactly when it is the case that the Social Democratic Party, led by Mette Frederiksen, wants to take over the Prime Minister's chair at some point, what we can expect. I would therefore like to know whether the Social Democratic Party believes that the constitution and international conventions should not be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141901	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141902	Thank you for the question. If Mette Frederiksen becomes Prime Minister, one can expect a government that will pursue the integration policy that we have had in Denmark, namely the spread of the people who come here, and that also applies to school. This means that we will have a majority of people with Danish background in all schools, including private schools, and we intend to implement it within the framework of the Constitution and within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141929	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141931	Should I then understand that this matter is an exception to respect for the Constitution and human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141943	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404141944	No, social democracy has no exceptions in respect of compliance with the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. But we felt safe before this note came, and we're not less convinced that we're on safe ground after this note has come. In fact, we think that this note opens up the possibility for the Folketing to pursue an integration policy and ensure that an increasing number of millions are not sent towards schools which undermine the integration policy of the Folketing. If it is the opinion of the governing parties that this note can be read in a different way, then I would recommend those parties and the rapporteurs to take up the ministry and make sure that they produce proposals which obviously cannot be misunderstood by the government parties' own rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142028	Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142030	Thank you. I am also very sorry to hear the Social Democrats express themselves as the rapporteur does right now. Well, there are some demands for free schools. After all, we must meet the conditions for the establishment of a free school, namely that it must match what is generally required in primary school, and there is strong supervision of the free schools that they must fulfil what is also about freedom, popular rule and democracy. That is also stated in the legislation. Then we have a constitution which states in Paragraph 70, and I quote: 'No one can be deprived of access to the full enjoyment of civil and political rights or of the fulfilment of any ordinary civic obligation by reason of his creed or descent'. I do not expect an answer to satisfy me, but I would like to hear a comment from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142119	After all, I think, following the quotation from the Radical Left rapporteur, that it is also part of the fact that freedoms are always limited by exactly the conditions mentioned by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, namely that if there are serious and objective reasons, they can be limited. There is a reason for proportionality, and what we read from the Ministry of Justice's note is that if you implement the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, it will raise some important issues. However, I do not read out of the note that this is contrary to the Constitution or, as paragraph 3 states, the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is why the ball has been moved to the Parliamentary Chamber. This is what the Danish People's Party has done with their resolutions, and there we have no doubt about what should be Parliament's policy. That is not to have free schools, where 95-98 per cent. of the children have roots abroad. It undermines integration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142221	Here you go, Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142223	Thank you. But could we also have a comment on what it means for the Social Democrat rapporteur that, in fact, the law on free schools, among other things, is there? Does it say that what is going on in a free school must match what is required in primary school? And it also says that people must be brought up for freedom, democracy and democracy, and that must be kept. That is part of the demand, of course, it is part of the agreement that is being reached on the free school. One comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142258	Yes, we think it is a good thing that legislation says that free schools must live up to freedom and the rule of the people. We think this is a good thing, and that is why we have also been involved in concluding the agreement that the Minister mentioned on the platform just now. In addition, however, as something extra, we also think it is important that free schools do not undermine society's integration policy. So even if a school has 100 percent. We still believe that there is a political problem: the political problem is that integration policy is being undermined. That is also why we do not think that this resolution is in breach of that agreement, and I do not quite understand why the Minister needs to say that it is strange that it is being tabled so early. Why is that weird? It's about something else. It is about the fact that even if they live up to the freedom and the folk rule requirement, there may well be an integration problem if all the students come from families from abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142357	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142400	It doesn't surprise me that sir... Mattias Tesfaye says that you want to respect the Constitution. That would probably also be a bad starting point for defending your views. In her speech, however, I noted that the Minister made it very clear that, in her view, there was no objective justification for discrimination. I'd like to hear sir. Mattias Tesfaye: What, in the rapporteur's view, is the objective reason for not subsidising these schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142435	I have noted that various notes have been made, including with different conclusions, from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice. I think we should now lean on the note that has come from the Ministry of Justice. To the question from Enhedslisten's rapporteur on what an objective reason is: At a time of migration, when more and more people are moving north and west and among other things. Arriving in our country, we believe that it is entirely factual to have a political desire to diversify the integration task and to get to know each other across cultures. Otherwise, we will never make it work, and in relation to the Muslim free schools and the sharp increase that is there, I think it should make an alarm bell ring in all the parties of the Folketing. That is why I think it is a good thing that we can now deal with the proposal in this Chamber. I also hope that a majority can be obtained now. But I am actually pretty sure that this will end with a majority in favour of implementing a policy here at some point. For a responsible Parliament cannot stand by and watch integration policy being undermined, among other things. in the city where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142534	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142535	What I really would like an answer to is whether it is the rapporteur's view that the mere fact that more than half of the pupils in a given school are of foreign origin is in itself a reason for laying down special rules for the school in question. Does the rapporteur think that ethnicity in itself can be an objective reason for laying down special rules for a school?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142603	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142604	After all, our proposal has been that the State subsidy should not be paid if more than 50%. of the pupils themselves are immigrants or have two parents who are immigrants. So until that's the answer, I guess. And we do not just think it should be in the field of school; we believe that the same should be applied in the area of housing policy, in the day-care institutions...
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142629	Yes, please! We're gonna have to get it grossly exceeded all the time. I'm sorry). Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142634	Thank you for that, and thank you for your patience. I actually find that the rapporteur has answered several times now that the Social Democracy will not break with the Constitution, and I think the natural thing will be now, when there is so much doubt about this note, that you meet again with some of the people who know about this law and find out what it really is that says in that note. When I show people around here at Christiansborg, when we get to the constitution, I usually say that everyone supports the constitution, but that people read it differently. And I actually think that's a little bit of an expression with this note. Now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye that he would like to discuss a major reorganization of the grants of free schools and private schools. And I think that is a little interesting, because we have long wanted to have a discussion, for example. to make the subsidy socio-economic, so as to ensure that some of the schools that take many children from vulnerable areas get a little more, while some of the private schools that have very many resource-rich children get a little less. What do the rapporteur and the Social Democrats think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142743	Thank you for the question. That will probably be a rather boring answer, because it is not right here that I am on home ground, i.e. in the grant system of the free schools. The reason I mentioned it in my speech is because we have a concern that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. in outer Nørrebro and in the northwest district of Copenhagen from one school year to another have no Muslim free schools, unless they get a strong influx of pupils with Danish background, then the surrounding primary schools from one school year to the next will have to take up quite a lot of pupils with foreign background, and this would cause some new problems. And that is one of the reasons why we have not just tabled such a resolution ourselves, because we can see that it has consequences which we think should also be taken into account, at least before legislation is adopted. But what we are discussing today is, after all, requiring the government to draw up legislation. So, in the context of such a process, it would be our view that, among other things, we should do something about it. We should look at municipal authorizing law for private schools, otherwise we are afraid that parents will simply move their children from primary schools and into private schools, and we are just as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142846	I shall then discuss this with the Social Democratic Free School rapporteur. I am a little concerned about the municipal authorising law because it may have some inappropriate consequences. For example: I am not sure that it is particularly fun to be the child who has been assigned to a free school where you may meet some children who have quite different values. But it is a major discussion. The reason I say this is just that I think that the subsidy system is an obvious way of getting the children mixed up more generally. I think more than 90 percent. of all the free schools in Denmark have a very mixed mass of students, so it could be interesting to look at the bubbles that are around, both where there are integration bubbles, and where there are educational bubbles.Those are people with a long higher education, and that is where people earn a lot of money. And those bubbles we can break up so the kids can meet across. I'm a little interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142931	I am glad that SF is interested in that, and I am also sure that the Social Democratic Party is • I just don't have the guts to stick to what exactly is our party's policy in this respect, because it's not exactly my home ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142943	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no other brief comments, so welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404142952	Thank you, sir. President. I can begin by saying that the Left will vote against this motion for a resolution. B 68, which we are now discussing in this Chamber. Then I would like to say that the Left actually supports the idea expressed in the motion for a resolution by the authors of the Danish People's Party that all schools in Denmark should be involved in promoting integration. But we do not support the proposal here, because I am simply thinking that there are some issues in it and that there are some things that may not be fully thought out. Firstly, the motion for a resolution will entail a reasonable amount of bureaucracy and burdens for schools with a majority of foreign pupils, because the motion for a resolution proposes that these schools should be able to demonstrate that they meet a wide range of criteria, some of which, in my view, are also imprecise and call for subjective assessments. Other criteria may also question whether they can tell us anything about the school's ability to integrate their foreign pupils. Secondly, the motion for a resolution proposes regulatory changes which will be very difficult to administer and, apart from that, there are also things that we believe go against the European Convention on Human Rights. The motion for a resolution may, in my view, constitute illegal discrimination. It is aimed at certain children on the basis of their ethnicity and religion, and we in the Left can just as well be honest and say that we cannot do that. Last but not least, we also believe that there are things here that are worrying about whether or not to comply with section 70 of the Constitution. So all in all, it can be said that the things I have pointed out here are what makes us unable to vote in favour of the proposal. I also think it is important to conclude by saying that this government is just doing something that may happen for the first time in many, many years to tackle a better integration policy. It is precisely these weeks that we are negotiating the parallel social action that we have taken, and we have also started to make stricter demands on both supervision and, for that matter, on whether to start a new school. So, in view of this, I can conclude by saying that we are voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143236	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143240	Thank you. Both the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights allow indirect discrimination if it is objectively justified. And that is why the Ministry of Justice's note does not say that the resolution is contrary to the Constitution or contrary to the Convention, as the rapporteur in his questions to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye said. So I would actually just like the rapporteur from the Left to confirm that the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice themselves say about this resolution that it only raises important questions but does not say anywhere that it is contrary to the Constitution or that it is contrary to the Convention. I would like the rapporteur to confirm this from the platform now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143336	In other words, if that is a specific word that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is seeking, namely the word is contrary, then I can confirm that the word does not conflict with the note. However, I would also like to stress that the Left is a governing party, and I actually believe that, historically, the governing parties also tend to listen to the officials of the Ministry of Justice and lean on what they recommend. So does the Left in this case. Perhaps I also had the expectation that parties who at one time also want to be in government would have the same opinion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143417	The rapporteur admits that she was wrong and that the resolution does not conflict with the constitution. I'm glad to see that. Another question: in its ghetto plan, the government has on page 25 plans for day institutions. It shall not exceed 30%. bilingual or children with a foreign background, and this must also apply to private day care institutions. Why, then, is it that the ruling party of the Left cannot vote in favour of a resolution which is even a little more inclusive, namely that it is free schools where 50 per cent of people live. of students have foreign backgrounds to prove that they are up to integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143458	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has a lot to do with concluding maybe from what he thinks he hears. I regret and say that I still believe that the note which we have received, and which was actually read out by the rapporteur of the Alternative, contains extremely great concerns in relation to the Constitution, and I read them in such a way that this motion for a resolution should not be rejected. I know that sometimes there is a tendency to bring fake news and so on. I feel that I am tired of what I am saying coming to a wrong conclusion. In any case, I can only say that it was wrong what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143543	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143545	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen says that the Left and the government lean on the official work, and then I feel the urge to say: "Show some political courage'. What is the policy of the Left in this area? Or is politics just leaning on the official work? That can be neither satisfactory for Mrs Anni Matthiesen nor for anyone else who sits in the government. What's the left line in this question? Perhaps I could understand it if the official work had said that it could not be done at all, but that is not what the official work says. So I think we should not hide behind the office and then say what we want politically in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143627	Politically, the Left wants us to achieve much better integration in this country. That is actually why, as part of the current government, we have just begun this task. This is a task which I have to say has perhaps been a little over for a very, very many years and which previous red governments have perhaps not addressed at all. After all, we have chosen to say here: we now have a joint task to tackle, with among other things. To break up these ghettos and move the residents into the country, so for that matter at best get rid of the ghettos. That's one of the things I know, too, sir. Martin Henriksen is very much in favour of the negotiating table in these weeks. So I hope that we will reach the goal of a joint agreement on the ghetto game that we have come up with and that we can do even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143725	But if we are to remove the ghettos and the parallel societies, we must, among other things, do so. Do away with the Muslim free schools, and we have to do away with the mosques. There are a whole range of things that we need to do away with. We must do away with the things that help to keep children and young people mentally in parallel society as well. There we cannot escape the fact that some of the schools we are talking about here are also helping to keep these children in the parallel society. So if we're gonna do this, the Left and the government are gonna have to move on in this area too. And we are close to having a majority in favour of that. That is why I just think it could be liberating if we could not hide behind the conventions if we could not hide behind the official work, especially when the official work does not even say clearly and clearly that we cannot do so. The office sort of opens up that you can do it. So get on the field, Left, because you have a rhetoric in the public who makes people think you're in on some of these things, but then you have to strike when the chance is there in the Folketing, and it is actually now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143818	In fact, I think that the Left is absolutely on the line in this area. If I have to pull one thing out now we do not have that much speaking time, it is actually the case that the free schools have to live up to and be able to match what is going on in the public schools. That is why there is also a requirement for the content of free schools. That is also why we have tightened up the supervision of Muslim free schools too, because they are part of the free schools. That is why I must say that, with the austerity we have made, I am incredibly confident that the free schools will, of course, live up to the rules we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143902	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404143904	Thank you. It says in this note that the Ministry of Justice's immediate assessment is that the proposal raises important questions in relation to section 70 of the Constitution. I think we have seen documents in the past where it says that the assessment is that it is contrary to the Constitution. So that's not what it says here. It says here that it raises important questions, and these are obviously questions which the government has not had time to answer before the first reading today. But okay, so let's try to get the essential questions answered in committee so that we can get a report from the Justice Department on whether their assessment is that it would be contrary to the Constitution. Let us assume, then, that in this respect they say that it is not actually their assessment, but that their assessment, as they write here, is that it will not be contrary to the basic law or at least they do not write that it is. If we now assume that this motion for a resolution is constitutional, will the Left be able to support it for a second reading of this motion for a resolution? What I am really asking is: is that the only counter-argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144016	In fact, in the Left, we like free school elections, and I assume that the Social Democracy continues to do so. I have to say that I think there are several things in this resolution. In fact, I also mentioned this in my own rapporteur's speech here a moment ago. There are several things in the motion for a resolution that concern me, so I will not stand here and promise that we will vote in favour if the Ministry of Justice suddenly says that this is not at all contrary to the constitution or, for that matter, to European human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144056	Thank you for the answer, which I think is a political response, unlike much of the other one, which I think has been a little hidden behind some wordings that cannot even stand for hiding behind them. But okay, if we continue to assume that the resolution is within the framework of both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, then I understand on the Left that there are also some other elements in the resolution that make you a little uncertain whether you can support it. Can you try to be a little more specific about what it is? Because we in the Social Democratic Party are also in favour of having free schools. We think it is an excellent part of the Danish school tradition, but the free schools are already limited by a number of things, for example, as has been mentioned earlier, the requirement for freedom and the rule of the people. Now we come and say: let us make another demand, namely that they make sure that the majority of children come from families with a Danish background. Will the Left be able to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144154	One of the things that may concern me most in this resolution is whether there is some form of indirect discrimination. How can we measure precisely whether there is a free school here that undermines what we would like to see in terms of integration? Perhaps that is where I have the greatest concerns, because I am not in favour of discrimination, either in relation to skin colour or for that matter religion. There I have some concerns if I am to give an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144233	Thank you very much to Mrs Anni Matthiesen for today's work and welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144244	With the proposal here, the Danish People's Party wants to introduce special rules for free schools, where more than half of the students have foreign backgrounds. What we are talking about here is that we want special rules for a very specific part of our free schools, and that we want special rules based on the ethnicity of the pupils, that is to say that ethnicity in itself, the fact that there is a certain ethnic composition in the individual schools, apparently in the opinion of the proposers, I have also taken note of the view of the Socialist rapporteur, which is sufficient to provide a factual justification for laying down special rules for a particular group of schools. I think that is a very worrying attitude. After all, we need to clarify whether this is contrary to conventions or the constitution. I am not going to contribute further to that debate, but I can just say that we certainly have no intention of hiding behind the office in this context. I have to say that we do not hide the fact that we believe that legislation which is so discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin would be completely mad. It has, of course, moved earlier years ago to legislate on special rules in the field of education, which proved to be unconstitutional, and if so, it will ultimately, we have to assume, be overruled by the Supreme Court, as we saw at the time with the law of the Thunder, but I would say that, on the other hand, a proposal is not unconstitutional, in itself, a quality mark. It would just mean that we couldn't treat it. That's all it really means. But it does not in itself mean that there is no indirect discrimination between a group by imposing special requirements on schools on the basis of the ethnicity of the pupils. So, regardless of how it might fall out with the assessment of the Ministry of Justice's note in this context, Enhedslisten will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144511	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144516	I just have to understand the principle of Enhedslisten here. If a municipality says that they have a wish that the children in their municipality should go to daycare centres across ethnic and religious boundaries and that they therefore make sure to mix the children so that they do not have a kindergarten with 50 children with a Danish family background and another kindergarten with 50 children with a foreign family background, but that they mix the children so that you have fifty-fifty every place, is Enhedslisten so in principle opposed to a municipal council making such a decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144553	I'm sure there's a lot you can do by setting up institutional districts. It just has nothing to do with this proposal. This proposal means, of course, that, if there is a certain ethnic composition in a school, it is necessary to lay down quite specific rules for this school only on the basis that the pupils have a foreign background, and that has nothing to do with the example that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144624	I do not think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite right about that. Currently, we have discussions in five different ministries about the government's ghetto plan, and part of that policy is, after all, about ensuring that we have mixed day institutions, mixed high schools, mixed primary schools, mixed housing areas. That is, of course, the whole objective, and that is why I think it is appropriate to know whether the Enhedslisten has a fundamental opposition to the political action being taken to ensure that there is spread. This is what this resolution is about. It's about saying you can't do a free school if all the kids come from immigrant families. We have to make sure we go to school together. There I think it is an untenable position from a red political party to say: No, we will not intervene in that; then people just have to segregate themselves and live in separate societies. That is what is happening in practice in the field of high school and now also, we can see here, in the field of school. Let us take action. We should not be shy of hands there, let the liberals do it. We must then dare to intervene and say that we must live together in society, go to school together, we must get to know each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144727	I would just like to remind you that the first question is one minute and the second question is only one and a half minutes. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144735	I can understand that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye would rather talk about something other than the proposal we are dealing with here. I would probably do the same with the views that are being expressed. We have, for example. in the high school area, it was pointed out that a division of the territory on the basis of social criteria could also ensure that the districts were sufficiently gifted and that there was both a social and an ethnic distribution. It just still has nothing to do with this proposal. This proposal seeks to build up special rules for certain schools only on the basis that a majority of pupils have a foreign background, and that is what I challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144818	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144820	Let me re-examine what the proposal is actually about. It's about free schools with students, where more than 50 percent. has a foreign background. If this is the case for a free school, then the school must be able to document some things in order to continue to receive subsidies, i.e.: Some criteria the school has to live up to. Is that contrary to the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights? No, it's not. Why isn't it? Because it is an indirect discrimination. It is possible to discriminate indirectly if it is factual and proportional. We know this from a large number of judgments. Exactly in this area, as B 68 proposes, there are no judgments, either from the Supreme Court or from the Court of Human Rights, so we are a little on uncertain grounds, and that is why the lawyers in the Ministry say that this raises some questions, but it is not contrary to the Constitution. Does the rapporteur recognise what I have just presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404144932	For us it is not an argument in itself that it is within the framework of the Constitution. Of course it is crucial for us, because if it was outside, it was not our job to deal with it. But for us it is not a decisive argument in itself that it is in accordance with the Constitution to do so, if it is. We see that this is a case-by-case discrimination. The fact that only on the basis of the criterion that more than half of the pupils in a given school have a foreign background should mean that special rules should be introduced for the school in question, we believe that this is totally unfair discrimination which is not objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145016	It is fair to disagree, but the framework is that this is within the framework of the Constitution and within the framework of the Convention. It is fair enough that the Enhedslisten then disagrees politically, and one can respect that, instead of hiding behind an invented postulate that this is contrary to the constitution and the conventions. So that's fair enough. The SF has clearly asked the Left whether it is possible to vote in favour if it turns out that it is within the framework of the Constitution, and that is something that we will not really answer. In other words, it was a rather complicated way of saying that I understand that it is a political expression, but I also understand that the Enhedslisten recognises that it is within the framework of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145104	So I am not going to stand here as a judge and necessarily agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this is within the framework of the constitution. Let us let the lawyers look at it and let us discuss it in greater detail in the committee work. As far as I am concerned, it is important to state a political position here, and the rapporteur is absolutely right to say that we do not think there is any factual justification for discrimination on this basis, and that is why we are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145132	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj for today's efforts, and welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145141	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution B 68, the authors of the motion wish to require the government to introduce regulatory changes which have the consequence that the state grant to free schools, where more than half of the pupils have foreign backgrounds, is made conditional on the school being able to demonstrate that it does not impede the integration of foreign pupils into Danish society. I might as well say right away that it is not a big secret that neither I nor the Liberal Alliance nor the government can accept free schools which do not introduce pupils into how life is lived in a society of freedom and popular rule and which does not develop the democratic education of pupils and their respect for fundamental freedoms. That is why, as I also think the authors of the motion, I have noted with pleasure that the Education and Quality Board has managed its tasks with the result that there are up to several free schools and a high school which did not operate on the basis of the law, which has now been deprived of their subsidies. I also believe that there is no State that can be imposed on obligations which have the consequence that the state or society of which it is a part is disintegrating. The basic principle, i.e. that the State cannot be imposed on obligations which result in its breaking up, means that the rights granted by a State to its citizens must always be given in a balance which simultaneously serves the security of the state and the security of the citizens, and that is certainly not a simple exercise. Because there is no template solution anywhere that you can just find and that you can easily and easily apply. The proposal we are debating today is a proposal which is based on the fact that it places the right of citizens to organise children's education in a balance which, at the same time, takes account of the interest of the state and the majority of citizens in the fact that Danish society continues to be a society characterised, for example, by. low crime and a high level of trust between citizens. The answer we have then received from the Ministry of Justice, which we have discussed on several occasions and which we probably have not finished discussing, says, as I read it and I can hear from the debate that we have had, that it can be read in many ways • that when you have to find the balance between rights and security, you have to take into account objectivity and proportionality. Then the answer also strongly suggests that right now and for the time being it is not found that those considerations have been taken into account in the proposal, and that is something that can always be discussed. I read the answer a little in the same way as when I participate in conversations with Englishmen. So when English people say that what you say to them is interesting, don't think it's interesting, it means it's pretty crazy. And when the Ministry of Justice says that important issues are raised, I think that one should read into it, that these are also critical issues, but we can have a discussion on that, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. But having said that, I would also like to add that I believe that the vast majority of us agree that the problems we are discussing are very serious. I think that they are at least • and they will not disappear today, and they will not disappear next week or this year. That is why it is our duty as politicians to find solutions that are objective and proportionate, because security is very important and, of course, I and my party and the government would like to invest a great deal of energy in that project. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145617	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145621	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question to which neither the Minister nor the rapporteur of the Left has so far been able to answer, and now I hope that the third time is a success. It is about the government's ghetto plan, page 25, where a ceiling will be set on how many pupils with foreign backgrounds can attend day institutions, both public and private, and this is done for the sake of integration. What, then, is this motion for a resolution, among other things? Does it have as a criterion that State subsidies will continue to be available? It is whether in the pupil composition there is an over-representation of pupils from vulnerable residential areas, exactly the same as the proposal in the ghetto plan, page 25, with the exception that we are a little more spacious, so it is 50 per cent, while the government is a little tougher, and that is 30 per cent. Can the rapporteur explain to me why, on the one hand, such things can be held in a ghetto plan, but, on the other hand, cannot vote in favour of this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145728	I am neither my party's integrationist nor the child's rapporteur, but as I understand it, it is for this reason that, in the institutional field, it is actually a matter of urgency to take action in this way because we are talking about language learning. And when it is language learning that is at stake, the concern for objectivity is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145755	Thank you. This resolution is both objective and proportionate because there is indirect discrimination. As in the Government's proposal, there is indirect discrimination which is objectively justified, for reasons such as: integration. It is exactly the same thing that is at stake in this resolution. Then why on earth can't you just say yes to it? There's no real difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145826	I believe that the proposal is probably very close to being objective and proportionate and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, these problems do not go away and therefore we must find a solution to them. I see what is written here as what is called a leg buckle in other contexts, and then we must jointly end up with the final piece of the factual and proportional.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145853	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl, and welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404145906	Thank you. Now we have had a great deal of discussion about whether and to what extent this motion for a resolution remains within the framework of the constitution and human rights, so I will not go into that in detail. We can all read the document from the Ministry of Justice, and then we can interpret it differently as we now think. But what is of course the interesting question I think I said the same last time, when we were discussing free schools, is that it has become as if the Danish debate is only about whether we should say yes or no to anything, according to whether it is contrary to the Constitution or not. We can also take a look at the content of this motion for a resolution, regardless of the constitution and human rights, and then we can ask ourselves what it really is. I agree with the Minister that supervision has been tightened up considerably, and that is not everything that we have been able to support in the alternative, because some of the things we have not agreed with, but at least overall efforts have been made to tighten supervision to get the given rotten fish caught in the net, and if we assume that the supervision we have with the free schools is working, what is the problem, where is the problem? We have a democratic right to start a free school, no matter who you are, which religion you profess to be, what color of skin you are, and then we have a system of supervision that ensures that you comply with the law, and then there is nothing to come after. I must hurry to say that we fully support the fact that those who do not comply with the law should not receive their state subsidies. I do not think anyone in the Folketing thinks so. But when such a resolution as this comes up, it is about us dividing the Danish population into two or more, then it is about us suddenly not talking about a single country, about a total population, about us being a community, that we are all Danes, no, suddenly there are some who are over 50 per cent. Something, and then there's the others. I noticed that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye said at one point that this resolution is about benefiting our children, that we guarantee the rights of our children and that we ensure the well-being of our children, ensures integration, but we also tell our children with such a resolution as this that there is a difference between people, that just going to a school where there are more than 50%, which is not of Danish origin, makes those children worse democrats, worse citizens of society. That is what we say to our children if we make such legislation. We will never be involved in this in the alternative. We would like to take action at any time in order to solve the problems that exist, but that we make legislation that indirectly tells those who are going to inherit our society after us that there is a difference between people, compared to whether you go to a free school where there are 80% who have Danish descent, or at a free school where there are 30 or 40 or 49 per cent. That is simply not true, because there is no difference between people. I would also like to ask where the evidence of the problem is. I think Mrs Marianne Jelved mentioned this, and it says that free schools have to comply with the law, that they have to match the level of primary education, so where is the problem? When will the documentation be available that more than 50 per cent? At a free school, which is not of Danish origin, is a problem in itself for integration? Where does it stand, where can we see it? I simply miss the evidence of the problem, which lies under this motion for a resolution, regardless of the entirely justified criticism of the human rights aspects and the challenges that may be posed in relation to Article 70 of the Constitution. So if we lift it up just a little bit and ask ourselves what kind of society we contribute to when we make or propose legislation that in this way divides Denmark into an A team and a B team, the answer must be that it is not the society that I want at least. I really want a society where we all think we have the same rights and the same opportunities and are worth equally. That is why the alternative cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150339	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150345	There is plenty of evidence that schools with many bilingual pupils and students with foreign backgrounds have problems. That is why almost half of those who have been appointed for supervision or enhanced supervision are Muslim free schools. That is why, among other things, we are in favour of the Commission's proposal. has this motion for a resolution. And what's this all about? It is about a free school, where more than half of the students have foreign backgrounds, to document that it works for integration. If it's 49 percent, it doesn't have to document it. If it's 50 percent, it has to document it. How, then, is it supposed to document it? This is done by establishing a large number of criteria. Free schools already have to meet a wide range of criteria in order to receive state subsidies. What we are doing with this resolution is putting on an extra layer. How, then, can the rapporteur talk about dividing people up and dividing Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150450	But it's self-evident. If I were a minister, or whatever I was, and said to the free schools in Denmark: Some of you must send in extra documentation, and others of you must send in xx documentation, however, I would indirectly say to the free schools that have to send in additional documentation that I do not trust that they have in fact intended to comply with the law. That's not how we're gonna drive our country. Our country is based on trust. The moment that there are some people who do not live up to it, and that is how it is today that there is a supervision that captures them, and that must be what we must continue to do, a supervision that catches those who do not comply with the law, but we must not suspect everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150532	I've had faith. That confidence was abused by certain schools with many students with foreign backgrounds. That is why we have tightened up supervision, and that is the reason for the resolution. In other words, we have evidence of action. It's not something we just do because we don't like them. No, there have been a large number of problems with these Muslim free schools, among others. fraud, jihad, propaganda, poor management, the influence of extreme organizations abroad. So there's evidence. Does the rapporteur not recognise that we have evidence of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150616	There is the evidence for free schools, Muslims, like all others, who have fallen for supervision and have failed to comply with legislation. Yes, there is plenty of evidence, because professional supervision has evidence that there is a reason for stricter supervision. All the other Muslim free schools and all the other free schools in Denmark, which are not under enhanced supervision, which supervision has not found any reason to do anything about, no, there is no evidence that they should not comply with the law or contribute to the democratic formation of our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150648	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150650	Thank you. I mean, you can't supervise anything if it's not in the law. Now I have heard that there is supervision, many times in this debate, but it is not part of the free school legislation that they have to live up to ensuring good integration, and therefore they cannot be monitored. One can monitor whether they break the demand for freedom and democracy, but this proposal is, of course, about good integration. And how do we ensure that? Is it good integration when there is a school with a hundred percent pupils of other ethnic origin? We cannot support the proposal as it stands. But I think it is actually a rather interesting debate. If you can grow up in a exposed residential area and then go to a free school and later into a high school where there are only pupils of other ethnic origin, is that good for integration? I don't think it necessarily is. It was mostly of curiosity that I took the floor, because now the rapporteur speaks a lot about dividing Denmark up when using this term other ethnic origin. In other words, does the rapporteur think that the term 'other ethnic origin' should be completely removed so that we no longer operate with it when we make policy? Too often it is used to target aid to those people who are of other ethnic origin because they face some additional challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150800	In relation to the last question, I have no problem with the term 'other ethnic origin' itself. What I have a problem with is that we are beginning to make different laws for those who may be of Danish origin and those who may be of other ethnic origin. In relation to the second, as the rapporteur said, whether integration is necessarily promoted, or whether integration is necessarily a problem, that you go to a free school where there is more than 50 per cent. I would like to say that it sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that this is necessarily a problem in itself. I simply disagree with that. And that's what I'm asking for documentation for. Why is integration necessarily a problem in itself, that of going to a school where there are more than 50 per cent. by other ethnic origins? It says between the lines that we believe that those who are of other ethnic origin will not democracy or can democracy or have other intentions, and I simply do not want to buy that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150900	Actually, I think that's fair enough. But I have to admit, I'm actually a little worried. If a student goes to a school where there are more than 50 per cent of other ethnic origins and then comes back in a exposed residential area where there are also more than 50 per cent. of other ethnic origins, it is not necessarily a question of becoming bad citizens or undemocratic. It is about me not believing that it is good if we have a lot of small communities where we live in parallel with each other. I'd like people to get mixed up. I would like to hear: In Aarhus students have been distributed in primary schools, i.e. after they have been found to be bilingual. Does the rapporteur and the alternative think that this is a way to go, that is to say that students can be distributed in their language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404150939	This is not something that we support as a starting point. I would like to say that I fully agree with the first and it is also about the first, as the rapporteur said, the intention that we should have as mixed schools, both primary and secondary schools, as possible; not because I believe it does not promote integration, nor that integration in itself is detrimental to going to a school where there are more than 50%. with other ethnic origins, but because it can only be good that we get to know different sides of each other's cultures. That is certainly our position. So we want to be involved in mixing the schools, but we would much rather do it with carrots than with coercion, and I have also made a number of proposals for this in relation to high school distribution, which say: why are we not giving a proper sum of money to the primary and secondary schools that are located in some of these vulnerable areas, so that they can upgrade their resources and also offer some offers to the Danish parents to whom they simply cannot say no? We'd rather go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151037	Thank you, Mrs Magdalene Maier, for today's work. And welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151048	Thank you. In 1849 we got the Basic Law I was just about to say the first time, and that was because we got it fixed by several laps and then we also discussed this theme. In fact, the fathers of the Constitution worked with the idea that parents should have the right to decide what education their children should have. But you couldn't find a wording, a passage that fits into the constitution, and you were busy there lately, so you didn't succeed in 1849. However, discussions continued on the subject, and in 1855 a general law was passed that parents could choose a free school and take responsibility for their children's education themselves. With the 1915 Constitution, we got in the paragraph that everyone knows about, which deals with the possibility of having free schools. And there are also the words that we very often quote, namely that free schools must match what is generally required in primary school. We have also made legislation afterwards, in which we stress that free schools must also be taught freedom and democracy. It is supervised and, in fact, we keep a very close eye on that supervision, including in terms of legislation. In Denmark, we have minority rights, as I sometimes call it, but it is also freedoms which, among other things, we have. Grundtvig was the banner leader in the 1800s when the constitution had become a reality and he worked to make the almu an enlightened people. Out of the view of freedom that Grundtvig, among others, stood for, we can create free churches, all kinds of associations, free schools, public education circles, etc. on the basis of the fact that we have the right to unite on values that are not shared by the majority. It is a right of freedom which is very, very important to maintain. And my party, the Radical Left, will work for that at all times because we know that my freedom is as great as my neighbour's freedom. That is why it is a general relationship that must apply. In the Vandrehallen in here at Christiansborg we have montre with e.g.. Constitutions, the Law of Jyske, King Hans's fortification and the Law of Kings, and there are four words, concepts painted on the wall. It's right, it's law, it's liberal, it's generous. Ever since I first came in here, it has been my ambition that Denmark should be known in the world for fairness, law, liberalism and generosity. I think that's worth fighting for. Then I would like to say about motion for a resolution B 68, which we are discussing here, that I have great respect for the fact that the issues which B 68 is also dealing with, and which we are discussing here, are being dealt with here in Parliament. Many words can be said, and that has been done, but I would like to quote a small piece from the Ministry of Justice's note, which has been referred to several times by other rapporteurs: after the Ministry of Justice's assessment, however, it has to be said, among other things. is considered doubtful whether the introduction of a special grant condition is justified solely by the proportion of pupils with a foreign background in each free school will constitute a suitable and proportionate means of achieving the above integrational objective. The Ministry of Justice then adds, and now I say it in my own words: you can judge that the free schools referred to must meet the requirements of the free schools laid down in the law on free schools, because the free schools referred to did not live up to the requirements and I mentioned them in my introduction here, so the free schools would be closed, and so there was no need for a B 68 too. On the basis of this reasoning, which I have expressed here, I must reveal that the Radical Left cannot support motion for a resolution B 68. In fact, we believe that the enhanced supervision, which has come most recently with the legislation on free schools, is appropriate to address the issue raised by B68.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151517	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151519	It is necessary to tell again and again what the motion for a resolution is about. It's about schools where more than 50%. of the pupils have a foreign background, must meet a certain criterion, namely that they have to prove that they do not impede integration. In other words, if they meet that criterion, they can continue to receive State subsidies. There is no one who, with this proposal, is trying to go in to ban free schools with pupils with a foreign background in Denmark. It is a criterion that we put on top of all the other criteria that have been set up for free schools. Does the rapporteur accept that this is the case with this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151609	Yeah, I do that to that extent. Well, I get it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's question in such a way that an additional requirement has been made on top of the requirements already contained in the law on free schools, and it can be said that it would have been appropriate if the Danish People's Party had made that proposal when we last discussed amendments to the law on free schools. It is not so long ago that it was precisely in order to tighten up the supervision of schools, and the Minister also explained it in his speech here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151643	Thank you for acknowledging that this is the purpose. The reason why we have not come forward with this is, of course, that it was the Social Democrats who proposed it eight months ago. I had a meeting with them and asked them to come up with a proposal, but didn't include what they had proposed in the media themselves, and then I thought: It's always the Danish People's Party that has to make sure things get right, so we do it. And it is a great pleasure that the Social Democrats support this proposal, because it is basically what they wanted. So that is why the Danish People's Party has not included it in the negotiations on enhanced supervision. Does the rapporteur also accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151720-2	I can understand what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says, and I can see the reasoning in it as well, but as I have said in my speech, building on the paper from the Ministry of Justice, there is no basis for adopting the additional requirement that B 68 contains in relation to the requirements that we already have in the law on free schools. Because if the free schools did not comply with the requirements that already apply, they would have been closed, and that is the point. So you don't need an extra requirement on top of that. That's my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151758	Thank you very much to Mrs. Marianne Jelved for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404151806	Thank you. The ease of such a proposal here, which has thus divided the waters, both in the press and today in the Chamber, would be to pour it down the board, because it is such a thing to talk about, because what is good integration? But I still think the subject is too important to do just that, because when there are schools around where 100 per cent. I think that there is a risk that integration will be bad. It's bad when students or so many people with foreign backgrounds gather somewhere and have big parts of their lives there. Some of the children are children who grow up in a residential area where there is a large share that has other ethnic origins, and then they can go to a free school where 100 per cent. have a different ethnic origin, and in the near future with the increasing number of private colleges they may also be able to do so in the field of secondary education, in other words, move to a secondary education where everyone is of different ethnic origin. In fact, my claim is that it is not good for integration. Am I alone with that claim? No, the government really has the same logic in parallel social negotiations, and that is why you want a more mixed housing mix in the vulnerable residential areas, which is why you want a more mixed composition in the day institutions. The Radicals had the same claim and logic when the last years at their summer group meeting said that there was a need to mix the primary school pupils more, and we believe that it gives better integration when people are mixed. I don't like that hetz that has been alone against Muslim free schools, but the discussion on how to ensure that there is good integration in schools, I think is actually very relevant, which is why I can't just pour this down the board, because that's what this proposal is about. This proposal is about looking at the schools where there is a risk that some pupils grow up in a small bubble and to ensure that those schools do not discourage integration. When I myself worked at a school it was a school that was just up a exposed residential area I sometimes saw that when we made demands on the children's parents, and it was sometimes bilingual children, they could threaten to pull their child out of school, because then they could put them in a free school or in a private school where there was much more freedom and where there would not be the same demands. That was for example. the need for children to take part in camp trips or the requirement that they bathe after sports education, that is to say, things that are quite normal for many people. So I do not only think that it can be bad for integration, but I also believe that it can put a little pressure on primary school when we have just such a place where parents can isolate themselves and their children. I like the idea that schools should live up to good integration. Some people today have made it sound like it is already in the legislation, but it does not. What is stated in the legislation today is that we must live up to freedom and democracy, that is to say that we must not base an undemocratic attitude on teaching and that we must not teach things that are absolutely anti-democratic, and that is a good thing, and we want to strengthen supervision on that. However, we cannot monitor what is not in the legislation, and it does not say in the legislation that schools should work with good integration, and now that SF believes it is good to get the pupils mixed up in the public schools, it is good to have mixed housing areas because we believe that adults and children should grow up mixed up, I think it is also relevant to discuss how we can find out how to ensure that free schools and private schools are also mixed. Surely we should not accept that these are small bubbles where you can just go and isolate yourself. Some people have also said this on a value-based basis, that the free schools are based on a certain value-based basis, and indeed they are, and that is their right, and it has always been, and it is still with this proposal. This proposal says that you must have exactly the value base you want, but you just have to work with integration if you have a certain pupil composition that can obviously mean that there can be a risk of small bubbles where people are not integrated as well. But there are also some things in this proposal that I am worried about and that I would like to ask more questions, so I hope that we can combine this debate a little and get together, for example. whether the right criteria are the basis for this proposal. I think we might be able to work on that. What kind of supervision is it supposed to be if you actually write this into the legislation? Should a major change be made to the grant? After all, this is all about integration, and I also believe that the bubbles in which rich people's children simply isolate themselves, where children of parents with long, higher education just isolate themselves, are bad. I would like children to be mixed, just as it is in the vast majority of free schools. Finally, the alternative rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not believe that it should be based on punishment. Well, could you think in terms of the criteria, so you start by saying that the moment you have more students with other ethnic origins, you have to actively implement some things in order to achieve good integration? It could also be a road. So instead of the trench war that has been a little today, I would like to say that we cannot support the proposal that lies here and now, but we share the objective of ensuring good integration completely, and that is why we would like to continue the debate, either in committee or in negotiations to which the Minister could call all the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152338	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152343	I'd like to thank you, sir. Jacob Mark for his openness. I and the Danish People's Party are prepared to listen to the SF and, of course, also to the Socialists, who have supported the proposal, during the committee procedure, and if that means that the Minister thinks it is a good idea for us to look at it together, then we are also prepared to do so. As far as the criteria are concerned, it is the case that we write: e.g. the following criteria may be included in the assessment. It's just a few suggestions. It's not something that's rock solid. We just want an assessment that ensures integration when there are so many students with foreign backgrounds at a free school. With these comments, can I conclude that the SF really thinks that there are elements in this proposal that are so good that we can actually work on it and hopefully reach a majority or an agreement that allows us to have some criteria that strengthen integration in the free schools? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152446	I cannot say at this stage whether we will end up supporting it, because it depends on what it looks like. But I would actually say that I was very pleasantly surprised when I saw this proposal and read it through. For the debate that took place this summer was just about closing all Muslim free schools, almost because of their value base, and if more than half of all pupils were of other ethnic origin, you just took the grant. In fact, it is a question here of saying that the schools where we know that children are at risk must actively prove that they are working with good integration. In fact, I think that is quite reasonable. But there are also some things that concern me, for example. the debate on the Constitution that has taken place today. I would like to look into it further so that it is done in a way that is proper for free schools to work with. So let's work on it, and then we'll see where it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152532	Thank you for reading what is actually in the motion for a resolution. When we wrote this resolution, we set out two tasks: that it should comply with the Constitution and that it should comply with the Convention on Human Rights. Why did we do that? To help, among other things: the government, but indeed also the Socialists who are concerned about this issue. That is why, of course, it is so unfortunate that the government has not grasped the branch we have given them. However, the SF has done so and we look forward to the continued work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152607	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152614	Thank you. I would just like to ask a little bit of curiosity about what the SF rapporteur has been talking about. Among other things: I think it is in fact in the context of the rapporteur's question that one might like a different kind of economic model. Could the rapporteur try to clarify this a little more?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152647-2	As I said, it is a goal of the SF that we have mixed primary schools, private schools and free schools in Denmark. This is true both when it comes to where the children come from, their background, their culture, but also when children who have parents with a short higher education or no education meet with children who have parents with a long higher education; when children who come from, yes, in my family we would say lower classes, we would meet children with parents who have a great deal of money. Because I think it's one of the things that makes Denmark unique that you meet across. I've just been to America. There you grow up in separate little bubble: then the Chinese live here, and then the Italians live here, and then the Mexicans live here. One of the things that has made Denmark unique is that we meet across culture and class and educational backgrounds. I would like to have a subsidy system that contributes more to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152741	It actually means, as I hear Mr. Jacob Mark, that one is prepared to compromise the parents' free choice of school. In other words, one is actually prepared to go so far that the parents will then probably also have to go a very long way to get the children to school or for that matter the passport. In this way one is actually prepared to somehow drop the parents' right to choose a school that they might think best suited to their child.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152823	After all, this is a major debate on free school elections. I do not necessarily believe that changing the subsidy system will mean that there will be more for parents. This will mean that some of the schools that have many children with very wealthy parents will receive less in grants and schools that have many children at risk will receive more. This will also mean that those schools which may not increase integration will not receive subsidies. Why should we grant subsidies to those who help to harm integration? In relation to the free choice of schools, it is true that I would actually like to discuss whether we should restrict free choice of schools a little. Typically, free choice of schools is only free from mobile pupils, and mobile pupils are often those who come from families that are resourceful. It is not so free from those students who are not mobile and yet can only move to the nearest school because their parents cannot drive them; they may once afford public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152911	Thank you very much, sir. Jacob Mark, and welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404152920	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that the Conservative People's Party shares the wish of the Danish People's Party to put an end to free schools which are working against integration in Denmark. The schools receiving state subsidies must live up to running a school on a democratic basis that meets the demands of the Free School Act for freedom and government. That is why we have also been involved in tightening up the supervision of the free primary schools, where, among other things, we have been involved. also includes an approval system for new primary schools to ensure that from the start new schools meet the requirements of the Free School Act for freedom and public administration. The austerity that we have helped to decide seems to be working, as several schools have already been deprived of the state subsidy, and there are further schools under enhanced supervision. The Conservative People's Party looks very seriously at schools that do not comply with the law. We must be consistent with them, but this must be done within the framework of the constitution and international conventions. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153034	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153038	Our assessment is that it complies with the Constitution and the Convention. If it turns out that it is also the Ministry's assessment that the issues raised by the Ministry have been clarified and confirmed, is the Conservative People's Party prepared to support the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153059	In the Conservative People's Party, we are concerned that the joint agreement that we have just concluded and have just discussed in this Chamber on 15 March will now be allowed to work in practice. With it, we have tightened the supervision of schools. We have tightened up the approval procedure at the start of free schools and, of course, we are concerned to keep an eye on the fact that this is now going to work in practice. In addition, we are concerned with ensuring better integration, which is why we have also been involved in this proposal for parallel societies and ensuring better integration in day-to-day services and schools that we are currently negotiating. This is one of the things we are very concerned about. And, of course, we are concerned that the law we adopt in here will be observed and that otherwise it will have consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153201-2	But what I asked was whether the Conservative People's Party is prepared to support the resolution if it turns out that it complies with both the Constitution and the Convention, as we in the Danish People's Party consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153217	I understand that there are several assessments of the note that has come from the Ministry of Justice. Several people read and interpret it in different ways. However, when we get a note saying that the resolution raises important issues in relation to Article 70 of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, it is not something that we can vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153249	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153250	I really think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is onto something central here. After all, it is the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights that have to decide whether this is contrary to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, but that is a good custom in here, I think we are asking the Ministry of Justice for a legal assessment before we adopt any legislation. That is why I think it is quite reasonable that this note should be included. Now we need to clarify what the answers are to the essential questions to which the Ministry of Justice refers. We must use the committee procedure to do this. That is why we have a committee procedure. But if the committee procedure shows that the motion for a resolution is within the framework of the Constitution and the Convention, if it is the Ministry of Justice's assessment, not their judgement, but their assessment, can the Conservative People's Party support the motion for a resolution? I guess that's a fair question to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153343	As I replied, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen just now, we are concerned that the agreement that we have actually been discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber, namely on 15 March, will not be allowed to work more than three weeks ago. In that agreement, we have, of course, tightened up supervision, and we have tightened the approval rules for the establishment of free schools. I think it is good practice to be true to the agreement we have now made and that it should of course be allowed to work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153419	I very much agree with that, and indeed I believe that the stricter supervisory rules we have agreed will work in practice, but they will work in relation to whether the free schools meet the demand for freedom and democracy. It does not say whether schools will at the same time either support or undermine integration. Our assessment is that the current free school rules, although free schools meet all the requirements of freedom and democracy, still undermine integration. Therefore, I do not think it is fair to link this motion for a resolution to that agreement on enhanced supervision. These are two different things. The proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party is that, although they meet the demands of freedom and democracy, even though they stand tight and teach in Hal Koch from morning to evening, we will nevertheless demand that they demonstrate that they support integration if they have more than 50%. children with a foreign background. Therefore, regardless of the agreement on enhanced supervision, it is reasonable to ask the Conservative People's Party: can the Conservative People's Party support this resolution if it is within the framework of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153530	This can only be a repetition of the answers I have given. I mean, we're preoccupied with ensuring better integration. We are concerned that schools are helping to promote integration. That is why we have helped to strengthen supervision, and in the supervision that the Board of Education and Quality is involved in, there is also the fact that in this way they are monitoring whether schools are also helping to ensure good integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153603	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Is there one more brief remark? Excuse me, sir. Jacob Mark also has a brief comment to make. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153617	Thank you. Sorry that it was just on the table, but I just have to say that in law there is freedom and the rule of the people, that is to say that free schools and private schools must live up to freedom and the rule of the people, and that is what can be supervised. And it is very good that we have strengthened the supervision that we must meet the demands of freedom and the people's rule. However, will the rapporteur recognise that the requirement of freedom and the requirement of democracy does not mean that schools should work to ensure good integration? There's no such thing. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153659	I agree that there is no integration in the word 'freedom and democracy'. However, as one goes out and supervises how to run schools in relation to the economy, in relation to teaching materials and the things they supervise, one can say that if they do not comply with the rules that we have laid down and teach, for example, with. teaching material which is not provided for in the law, they do not, after all, stand up to help ensure good integration. So it's in it, but not in those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153741	Yes, what lies in freedom and popular rule is neither educational material nor the way teachers teach. So it's not about good integration; well, it just doesn't. So I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Because I think that the rapporteur's party is also interested in us getting people integrated better and ensuring that people meet across. I would like to hear the rapporteur's suggestion as to what to do. So, what do you have to do to integrate these children into Danish society and to ensure that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153819	This is precisely one of the issues that the Conservative People's Party has helped to do with the government, about our parallel society strategy. And that is actually one of the things we are discussing at the moment and which we are also going to do later today in the Ministry of Education. It is precisely to help ensure good integration, to ensure that the children learn the language and the students can learn Danish at school and thus can be part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153850	Now I am trying carefully again to say thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. There are no further brief comments, and I have the great pleasure of welcoming the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404153910	Thank you, President. I have the great pleasure of trying to conclude and reply to the many objections to this motion for a resolution. And while the talking desk is running up, I'm gonna go find my papers. Thank you for the debate. I think it's been incredibly exciting and alive. I should like to begin by congratulating two rapporteurs who have really read the motion for a resolution and the words with which it was written, and that is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF. Social democracy says yes, SF may say if it can be worked on in committee, and we are only happy about that. Then the motion for a resolution has its origins in the Social Democratic Party, which could not really finish putting it forward. We have done so. We took the task of keeping it within the conventions and within the constitution, because what we want is to have a broad majority and get the government behind the proposal. It is a mystery to me that the government has not been able to accept this proposal. So what's it about? I have to repeat this because a great deal has been read into the proposal. It's about free schools, where 50 percent. or several of the students have a foreign background. These schools must be able to demonstrate that they do not oppose integration. That is what the proposal is about. They need to be able to document it. In other words, they must meet certain criteria. There are already criteria to be met by free schools today. Now we're putting in an integration criterion. If they live up to it, they have continued with the subsidy, and not only with it: the schools where there are less than 50% are not affected by it. That is what is called indirect discrimination, and that is something we should have in Denmark. The Constitution allows it, the Convention allows it, and the Court of Human Rights also allows it if indirect discrimination is objective and proportionate. That's where it's really gonna be exciting. That, for example. As far as proportionality is concerned, there is, of course, whether there is an over-representation of pupils from vulnerable residential areas in a pupil's composition. That is what the motion for a resolution says. This is among other things. also the background to the ghetto plan. The government has presented its ghetto plan. It is long, and it is also good far along the way. After all, on page 25, the government has proposed that in day-care institutions there should be no more than 30%. children with a foreign background, and this applies both to the public and to the private. So is there a difference to our proposal? The only difference is that we're more spacious. Actually, we're going up to 50 percent. It is an indirect objective and proportional discrimination which the government has in its ghetto plan and which is therefore legal. We've done it the same way. After all, there are many good arguments for B 68. One could easily make a proposal to show that all free schools do not work against integration, but that would be absurd, because if there are schools with 95 per cent. students with Danish background, do they have to live up to it? No, you have to select the schools that have a real challenge. That is an objective, proportional assessment. Then the B68 also lists some criteria, and there may be other criteria. We can discuss in committee whether they are factual. If we now targeted this demand directly against Muslim free schools, it would be direct discrimination. That is why we have tried to find a criterion that defines the problematic schools, so that we hit the schools that have challenges and free those that do not. Then I would just like to point out that Norway has gone further. In practice, a number of Muslim free schools have been rejected. If you can do this in Norway, you could do what we proposed in B 68, because it is much less extensive than what you have done in Norway. Then I would just like to say that there are a large number of specific cases, such as: The documentary • The mosques behind the veil • have revealed about the Muslim free schools, which show that there is a very concrete problem. We have many supervisory cases both of general supervision and of enhanced supervision of Muslim free schools. I think that about half of the cases that are concern Muslim free schools. That is also an objective reason. That is why I am surprised that the Government, in its eagerness to say no to this proposal, refers to the Ministry of Justice's note. Because the Justice Department's note is really interesting. It says nowhere, dear Left, dear Liberal Alliance, dear Conservatives, that the resolution is contrary to the constitution or to the conventions. It's nowhere. On the other hand, it says that the proposal raises some questions because of a number of different factors. Those questions could of course be answered by the government if they had agreed to the motion for a resolution. So I'm really rather disappointed that the government isn't in on this. We have had excellent cooperation with the Minister so far. I don't know if it's the Left who pulled the hand brake... it may sound that way in today's debate... but I really think it's pretty shameful. The last time we had a case about free schools in the Chamber, the Social Democratic Party got scolded by you, and today I would like to scold the Left. I just think it's too lax. The rapporteur does not respond to the questions about the ghetto plan and the parallelity of our resolution. The rapporteur takes no account of the fact that indirect discrimination is legal as long as it is objective and proportionate. It is simply too bad for a large government-supporting party like the Left. That is not good enough, I would say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There must be better arguments on the table if we are to take you seriously in these matters. That is why it is a pleasure for me that Mr. Jacob Mark and the SF, together with the Social Democratic Party, are willing to enter into a political discussion in committee and I very much hope that we can find a model in which we can all see ourselves. If this means that the government thinks it would be sensible to talk to us, then we are also willing to do so. Of course, it requires that the Left come down from the high horse and accept the hand that the SF has actually moved forward today. Whether that happens is not something I should be able to say, but that it is necessary, the state of things in the field of free school shows quite clearly. With these words, I would like to thank you for the debate. It has been very exciting and of course also informative, and there have been some surprises along the way, especially from Mr. Jacob Mark, whom I would once again like to thank for the openness he has shown. With these words I shall end for this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154806	This triggered a brief remark from Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154810	Thank you. After all, I thought the rapporteur himself suggested that I also had to take the floor, of course. I can at least begin by saying that the Left has not pulled any brake; the rapporteur almost made it sound as if the Left had done so. I mean, the government is all over this. I hope that the rapporteur also took part in this, among other things. in the Minister's speech. One of the things I would like to ask a few questions about is whether there is nothing in the note we have received from the Ministry of Justice that gives the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party any concern at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154901	It is, of course, a pity that a single government is behind the rejection. It just makes me even more worried. With regard to the Ministry of Justice's note, I would like to say: yes, you must always listen to lawyers and, in particular, lawyers from the Ministry of Justice when they say that there are important issues. But we must then have answers to those questions. It really just means that the lawyers say: we can handle this, but there are some things we need to get the answer to before it is within the dial. The government could have just said: it is a fine motion for a resolution you have, but the lawyers have just raised some flags. We need to get these things done, and if we can get them straightened out, we'll be in business. The government has not done so, and neither has the rapporteur, and that is why it is shameful for the Left in particular, which I think has been somewhat hesitant today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404154959	I would actually like to have the rapporteur explain to me here, as my last question, how the rapporteur views the concept of essential issues. It may be that the words are sometimes interpreted differently. I would really like to hear the Danish People's Party's description of important issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155029	In other words, it is now the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice who have used the words 'essential questions', and so it is obvious that the rapporteur is asking that question to the Ministry of Justice: what do important questions mean? What is meant by that choice of words? And can it be solved? I am just sensitive to the fact that nowhere does it say that it is contrary to the Constitution or to the Convention... nowhere... and therefore there is a political space for action, as both the Social Democratic Party and the SF have recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155104	Thank you very much, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for today's efforts. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this point? There is not, so the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. And if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155128	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155148	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing the temporary protection status of refugees, which was adopted by the then Minister of Justice, Mette Frederiksen, in February 2015. It has been a good arrangement that has since been developed, that is, since the parliamentary elections. In the Social Democratic Party, therefore, we have no difficulty in supporting this bill, which basically means that the existing rules can continue. This little bill is hardly going to mean anything in this context, but since the Minister is obliged to put forward the proposal to amend the rules, there should be no criticism of it from this point of view. With those words, we can support the proposal, so that our own policy can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155234	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no brief comments. We welcome Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155247	Thank you. I can be very brief. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that the law works broadly as intended, which is why we also support the bill which is here and which basically calls for the revision clause to be repealed and the provisions that are already in the legislation today to be continued. The law has, among other things. We should like to see a great deal more of this. So we support the bill with a call to the Minister to do even more to ensure that resident foreigners with refugee status and their family members are returned to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155331	Neither is Mr. Martin Henriksen's speech produced brief comments, so we welcome Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155341	Well, in that case, I'll be quite brief as well. We think that this arrangement is a really, very good idea, as it creates the opportunity for us to send back people who no longer have an urgent need for protection. In addition, the scheme emphasizes my general view that when, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, nor do we have the right to vote in local elections. is a refugee in Denmark, so it must be of a temporary nature. We must make that clear to those who come here as refugees, but of course it must also be incorporated into the law. Having said that, I am concerned that things are going on in a responsible and proper way. That is why it is important that we evaluate the scheme and check that everything is done properly and that the scheme has the desired effects. I note with satisfaction that the scheme appears to be working as intended and there is no reason to continue an ongoing evaluation, as the scheme has proved its worth and even with a positive result. Thus, the Left supports the bill to repeal the ongoing review of the scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155446	I would also like to thank Mr. Marcus Knuth and welcome to Mr. Knuth. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404155500	Thank you. The Government proposes with this bill to repeal the revision clause in the temporary protection status legislation. When the new temporary protection status was introduced under the previous government back in 2015, it was assumed that certain refugees do not need the same secure status in Denmark as Convention refugees. When the current government believes that it is important to maintain this status, it must be understood that it is because the government believes that it may soon be relevant for refugees from Syria, for example, to return home. First of all, you want to ask which planet the government is living on. What is it in the sun and moon that makes the government believe that the terrible civil war in Syria will soon be over? I would just like to call on the rapporteurs to imagine that they had the opportunity to ask the people of Ghouta or the Afrin areas of Syria whether the situation has improved in recent months, when their villages, their houses, their cities have been bombed by Assad, by Erdogan and by Putin. If the government wants to change anything about the terrible situation in Syria, then this bill is not the way to do it. Then the obvious place to start was to say clearly from the point of view of the abuses that are taking place, for example by Erdogan and extreme Islamists, who are attacking the people and Denmark's allies in the Afrin area of Syria. Looking at the facts, more than 500 civilians are believed to have been killed alone in Afrin; more than 150,000 have been driven on the run. So if the government meant it seriously when talking about helping in the neighbourhood, it was obvious that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said clearly against the attack that Denmark's NATO allies, together with extreme Islamists, are making right now in Afrin, but that has not happened. The result is that tens of thousands of civilians have been hunted on the run, that the fight against the Islamic State has been weakened. So much must be said of the government's focus on help in the neighbourhoods; so much must be said of the government's otherwise high priority: to fight against the Islamic State. But in addition to the fact that the government apparently has a rather naive idea that peace and stability are on the way in Syria, the very content of this proposal is also something that, in the view of Enhedslisten, is completely wrong. We do not believe that war refugees need stability and security less than other refugees. We are opposed to the policy of actively separating children from their parents, which unfortunately started under the last government and which, with the current government, has been extended from one to three years. We believe that it is absolutely grotesque to deprive children who are in the middle of war hell in Syria of the possibility of being brought together with their parents in Denmark. It is a failure towards children, which is utterly inhumane, and one does not need to be a professor of child psychology in order to understand that it is dangerous and harmful to be in the midst of Assad, the Islamic State and extreme Islamists in the Syrian civil war. But it's not just us in the Enhedslist who are critical of this bill. The UN UNHCR criticises the active separation of children and parents in the hearing response; so does Save the child, who points out in the hearing that it is a violation of the Children's Convention, as it requires Denmark and other countries to ensure rapid and humane treatment of family reunification cases. Similarly, Danish Refugee Aid criticises the limitation of family reunification and points out that some refugees become so desperate that their family and children should stay in the war zone that they return to Syria despite the extreme danger to themselves. Finally, Danish Refugee Aid states that it is also completely incomprehensible that refugees who have just fled from war should be less in need of stability and security than other refugees. That criticism, of course, fully shares Enhedslisten. We want the temporary protection status to be abolished so that, in line with the practice of the Refugee Board before 2015, we grant all refugees equal rights to security. The Enhedslisten is therefore against the proposal because we want all refugees to have the right to lasting and stable security before they can be sent out by Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160005	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160015	Thank you. The draft law will repeal the revision clause, which was included in relation to the temporary protection status of asylum seekers who sought a background in a particular situation in their country of origin. After all, the Ministry has now evaluated the legislation and found that it is working completely in accordance with the political intention of making the amendment of the law. The intention is to share the Liberal Alliance and, of course, we are voting in favour of abolishing the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160050	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on the rapporteur from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160056	Thank you. If I do not remember wrongly, in December 2015, the Liberal Alliance helped to ensure that this revision clause was introduced by the majority. As I remember, the debate on the rapporteur has to correct me. We were a majority who wanted the revision clause to be introduced because it was a temporary situation. We have so different views on how to deal with this, but the temporary situation was also the argument for introducing a review clause. It was an emergency law and a temporary situation to be reviewed in relation to whether the pressure on the Danish borders was still such that it was necessary to have this law. In the Radical Left, we want the revision clause to be maintained. We also want a different law, but we want the revision clause to be maintained. Will the rapporteur explain why the rapporteur believes that the revision clause should be lifted when it was also introduced in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160202	However, as the rapporteur has said, this was something we introduced temporarily when we had to evaluate it. Now all we can see is that it is entirely in line with the political intention. And we think it's fair that when you can get back home, you have to go back home. We thought so at the time we introduced it here and did it temporarily, and now we think it makes sense to do so permanently, and that is why we support the lifting of the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160233	But there was also the possibility of sending home before this law was introduced, and it was also the policy that it should be. This is also about family reunions taking much longer. The argument for that was that there was an emergency situation. Does the rapporteur still believe that there is an urgent situation that justifies that law, or is it something else that applies now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160300	[Sound emission]... all the time meant the same thing. We believe that it is good to provide protection when it is needed, but when it is no longer needed, we believe that we should go home. We also believe that it makes sense to say that, when you consider it temporary, you can easily have different views about what is and how long is • it does not make sense to make family reunification during that period. That's why we think this makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160328	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160332	Thank you. It is actually because the relevant question is whether it is estimated that the war in Syria will soon be over. That was the reason why it was supposed to be a temporary protection status for these people. It can be said that when the law was introduced, the Liberal Alliance felt there was a need to look at whether it should be revised. Now we are here, and the war in Syria is still going on. If you see the pictures from Ghouta and Afrin, you can see that in recent months some of the bloodiest things have happened in Syria for a long time. So I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance: Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that the war in Syria will soon be over?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160415	Like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself, I do not think I can predict the future either. I don't know when the war in Syria ends. Nobody in here knows that. But what I know is that our position is that when it ends, we would like to be able to send the people who come from Syria home, and that is why we think this makes sense. And it may be thought that our assessment is different in relation to when we think it can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160444	Yes, but when it was originally thought that it was relevant to have a review, it was probably on the basis that one should look at whether it might soon look like there would be more peaceful conditions. That is not what has been achieved, and then it is decided to remove the revision. It must then be because it is believed that now it is closer to peaceful relations. Or have you just turned 180 degrees on a plate as part of being in government and submitted to what the other parties think? Or has one completely changed one's attitude in relation to what was meant in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160523	As I said, the Liberal Alliance has always meant the same thing. In other words, we believe that when the country of origin, the country of origin, settles down, you have to go home. That's what we thought at the time we made this change. So there is nothing new in the position of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160543	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160550	Thank you. I can say that the alternative is voting against this proposal to remove the revision clause, as we do not agree with the amendments adopted in the original law, and I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur very well explained it. In particular, we think that the postponement of family reunification which is taking place for these people, who are covered by the temporary protection rules, is also an argument in themselves for us to give these people a legal status which is in every way detrimental to them, because they will not be able to bring their families here until after three years. When I was preparing for the examination of this bill, I look at the bill called L 87 [People's Assembly 2015-16], where we discussed it by postponing the opportunity to have family reunification. I would actually like to read out the contribution made by the Members of the Enhedslisten, Alternativet and Radical Left in this connection. And what we wrote was: "All the hearings from organisations as competent as UNHCR, the Institute for Human Rights, Amnesty International, Dignity, the Lawyers' Council, the Association of Foreigners' Attorneys, the Legal Association, the Danish Refugee Aid, Save the Child and the SOS against Racism state that this bill is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and that with this bill Denmark will not comply with its international obligations, among other things. The Children's Convention. This should in itself be enough for the proposal not to be adopted by the Folketing. Another reason, as several consultation partners point out, is that the implementation of the proposal may have negative consequences for the integration process of the families concerned. The parties are sure that the proposal will not only be able to, but will have negative consequences for the integration process. People with temporary protection status who are forced to wait 3 years for family reunification will suffer from permanent psychological harm due to the concern of their family members and will suffer chronic illness, which will deprive them of all the capacity and readiness to enter the labour market quickly when they applied for asylum in Denmark. This will make them and make integration into Danish society extremely difficult. In the opinion of the parties, therefore, the proposal will have very great negative consequences both for human and for society. The parties are particularly concerned about the lifelong damage to the development of the children affected, which the proposal will cause. EL, ALT, RV and SF want to follow the UNHCR's call to Denmark to reconsider the entire bill and instead focus on a common European response to the major challenges we face. ▪ I really think, if I may say so myself, that at that time we made a good contribution to the report and we have continued to hold that view. That is why it goes without saying that we still think we should retain the review clause in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160900	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404160913	I think that the former rapporteur has excellently explained our joint report's contribution from emergency legislation in 2015. That was where the government amended the Aliens Act so that refugees with temporary protection status could now have this status for three years. And so it was also possible for the government to postpone family reunifications for this group of refugees, which is a smaller group, but still an affected group for 3 years. It's too long to be separated from your family in a war zone. We can see, and we know from several studies, that it harms the ability to contribute and integrate in Denmark, whose children have to wait 3 years for their parents or a spouse to wait 3 years to get their husband or wife or children here. A revision clause was introduced into the law at the time. It was there, as I asked the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for earlier, a majority for then, and it was a good idea. Because it is deeply relevant to reconsider whether it does anything good for people and for integration in Denmark that one can have temporary protection status for so long; that one cannot be with one's family for so long; that one has to worry for as many years as we see it now in Denmark with children sitting and waiting for their parents for many years. The Minister wants to abolish that revision provision now. We are against this in the Radical Left. We still want this law to be reviewed at least so that we, as a Parliament, can decide whether it is beneficial for people and for Denmark, not least, that refugees sit for so many years without any clarification of the fate of their families. We do not think so, and that is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161135	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161152	Many sensible things have been said by the last rapporteurs, so I do not have much to add. We voted against the law on temporary protection for refugees at the time, and it was the Syrian refugees that it was about. One might say that in the revision clause that was introduced there was such a valve in the bad legislative proposal that was there at the time. Now you want to remove the valve and permanently make what we were against at the time, and of course we cannot support it. Many arguments have been put forward, and I can also refer to the many consultations that have come from the various organisations dealing with human rights and refugees, and this is particularly the deteriorating family reunification rules, and what they will have to do with children in particular. I think that more needs to be said about the consequences for the children of refugees, the way they are treated in the Danish asylum system at all. But like I said, we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161307	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161321	In 2015 we experienced a historic increase in the number of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants both to Western Europe, but also to Denmark. A lot of people were given asylum back then in Denmark, and it was a great challenge, but since then the government has taken a number of steps, and today the number has fallen again. It is important that Denmark can help protect people on the run, but asylum and protection need not mean that you stay in the country permanently. It is, in fact, a fundamental principle of refugee and protection status that protection will cease when it is no longer needed. That is why, at the time, the government introduced new rules which neither limited nor narrowed the possibility of obtaining protection, but ensured that we also have the opportunity to return people who no longer have a need for protection. When there is no longer a need for protection, you have to go home. Then it doesn't help to live a life on the edge of Danish society. That was the purpose of the law. The Ministry has carried out an evaluation of the law and concluded that it complies with the purpose. The Conservative People's Party wants a fair and realistic refugee policy. We believe that it is a reasonable expectation that a temporary protection status is actually also temporary. That is why we support the proposal to make the rules permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161500	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161504	Thank you. In recent months I have met a great many refugees from Syria here in Denmark; refugees from Ghouta, refugees from Afrin. They have been completely out of desperation over the fact that their family was in areas that were bombed by Erdogan, Assad and Putin. After all, there is nothing more terrible to imagine than to sit and know that your children are in the war hell that is in Syria right now. I'd just like to hear what, sir. Naser Khader's message is for those people. Expects Mr. Does Khader seriously care that there will soon be a peace in Syria? Is that really sir? Does Khader's message to the desperate people who see their family in Ghouta?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161606	In fact, tolerable conditions and peace agreements have been created in several places in Syria, including places not far from Ghouta. There's some deal with the government. And in many parts of Syria, you can live tolerablely. It's not like it was before, but it's getting better. There are still some pockets, some areas where it is intolerable. In Ghouta, a solution is being worked out. Both civilians and rebels have been evacuated out of the Ghouta area, and they have come to other places in Syria: civilians to safe areas and rebels to rebel-controlled areas. Things are not optimal, but I do not want to say that the whole of Syria is insecure for everyone. So many millions of people still live in Syria who have a dream that things will be more peaceful than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161726	Three months ago there were, for example, an extremely peaceful area, at least in relative terms, namely Afrin. It has just been overrun by Denmark's NATO partner Erdogan along with extreme Islamists who have hunted more than 150,000 people on the run. It says a little about how completely unstable the situation is, that an area that has been virtually untouched since 2012 can suddenly be overrun, even without a clear condemnation from the Danish Foreign Minister that it is a NATO partner that does so. I'd just like to hear from Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, if it's really Mr. Kader. Naser Khader's message, therefore, is that the freedom fighter Naser Khader is able to live with peace of mind in Assad - controlled areas and that it is quite fine. Is that a message, as Mr. Naser Khader would like to hand over to refugees from, for example, the Ghouta area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161827	I would have liked Assad to have been removed and the regime to have been removed, but that was not the case. Assad has won with the help of the Russians and the Iranians, unfortunately. He controls large parts of Syria, and there are also some who have previously been in opposition to him, who is now under his So you can live there, even if you have been in opposition to the regime. And some of the negotiations that are taking place have also progressed, both in Astana and also in Geneva. So it moves in the better direction, but it is not optimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161916	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404161928	First of all, thank you for the contributions from the rapporteurs. This bill is, of course, in its simplicity about the government wanting the rules on the temporary protection status of certain foreigners, i.e. the provision in Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, which has been in use for more than 3 years, is made permanent. At the same time, the current system of deferred access to family reunification is maintained for three years for foreigners with temporary protection status. The rules on temporary protection status are aimed at the group of foreigners who are expected to have only a temporary stay in Denmark. And it goes without saying that the length of the residence permit granted is shorter than that of other foreigners, and the possibility of family reunification in the first few years is limited. The rules on temporary protection status were therefore introduced for those people whose need for protection is due to a particularly serious situation in the country of origin in connection with an armed conflict or similar, and the rules on temporary protection status have neither extended nor reduced access to asylum in Denmark. On the other hand, the rules have created a better condition for those who no longer need protection to be able to return home to their home countries. That is common sense in the view of the government, because we must of course help and protect real refugees, but when there is peace in either their country of origin or parts of their country of origin, they must return home and they must contribute to reconstruction. I will not hide the fact that the government wants strict family reunification rules. The government has no doubt that the conditions of residence mean anything to which countries refugees and migrants are seeking. The draft law therefore maintains the scheme that foreigners with temporary protection status are not, as a rule, entitled to family reunification within the first 3 years of their stay in Denmark. This means that the deferred access to family reunification is made permanent for this group of foreigners. As in the past, family reunification will also be announced within the first 3 years, if Denmark's international commitments specifically so agree. The Act of February 2015 en § 7 stk. 3, which was also introduced into the Aliens Act... contains a revision clause which means that the rules on temporary protection status must be evaluated and reviewed in this Assembly. The conclusion of the evaluation, which was transmitted to the Danish Parliament at the same time as the bill itself, is that the rules on temporary protection under Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, works according to the intended purpose. I am delighted, of course. It is therefore proposed in this draft law to repeal the revision clause, which means that the provision of Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 3 whether temporary protection status is being made permanent. The same applies to the postponement of access to family reunification for temporary residents. These should be the words for now, and I look forward, of course, to the further discussion and also to the questions that may be either now or later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162325	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162329	Thank you. One might say that when we made this legislation, the discussion was very much concerned that the war in Syria was soon over. That was three years ago. At that time, there was only one that I could so find from international sources who believed that the war would soon be over. It was the Syrian President Assad who announced that he thought it would be over within a year. Now we're standing here three years later. There were some of us there three years ago who allowed us to doubt that Assad was right about the end of the war. And there are still some of us who, when you look at the atrocities taking place in Syria, are quite sceptical about whether there is an imminent peace coming. So I would like to hear the Minister: what makes the Minister think that the war in Syria will soon be over?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162417	I didn't say that at any time. However, I believe that we must set the rules in such a way that, when we no longer have a need for protection, we must, of course, return home. We must protect people as long as they need protection, but when the need is no longer there, they must return home and help rebuild their home countries. I think that is common sense. I also think that the municipalities that have been given, for example, are being found around. Syrian refugees out now, can see that it is relatively difficult to integrate the people who have come here. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that far along the way it is the strongest who have come here and, if they are not to help rebuild the homeland from which they came, I do not know who is going to. This has always been the case; when there is no need for protection anymore, you go home. And that's why I think this is common sense. But, of course, I cannot predict the future in Syria. I understand that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen can, and of course I am very happy to listen to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162523	On the contrary. So, I actually asked the Minister if the Minister had a reasonable assumption that there would soon be lasting peace in Syria, because that is not something I can see. And when you do something as intrusive as a law that deprives children of the opportunity to see their parents, it is quite reasonable that you do so on the basis of an assessment of reality. And I do not think that is too much to ask, not least when we look at the very violent criticism that comes from, among other things. Save the child and the UN. So it is clear that if there is a lasting and stable peace, people have to go home. But there is no indication of that at all. And the reason for giving people temporary protection was surely that they thought there would be an early peace. And I just think the Minister owes an answer to that when the revision clause is removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162622	In general terms, as I said earlier, I believe that as long as you need protection, you must be here and when you no longer have it and neither Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen or I will tell you if you're going home. But it seems that this is the case anyway, for Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen sounds like he knows exactly what things are going to look like. There may be conflicts that will be covered by these rules and there will be people who are victims of conflicts that will be covered by these rules. And frankly, I think that the legislation we have here is common sense. And I am glad that there is such a broad majority in the Folketing supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162703	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162719	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162742	The possibility of exchanging information on fingerprints in the European Eurodac system gives Danish authorities better opportunities to prevent, detect and investigate serious offences, such as: terrorist acts. With this bill, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration wants the Danish Parliament to make it possible for Denmark and the Danish authorities to continue to be associated with this cooperation. The Constitution requires this approval from the Danish Parliament. The draft law empowers the Minister for Justice to lay down detailed rules on how to implement the new Eurodac regulation in Denmark, and the Minister can decide who is to be independent supervisory authority. That is sensible, and just as we supported it in the Committee on European Affairs, the Social Democrats can do it here without any problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404162846	Thank you. With the adoption of the bill, the Folketing agrees, pursuant to Article 19 of the Constitution, that the Government, on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark, approves the agreement on Danish accession to the part of the revised Eurodac Regulation relating to access to Eurodac for law enforcement purposes. The revised regulation seeks to ensure a fairly effective application of the Dublin Regulation and regulates the inclusion of the fingerprints of asylum seekers and their exchange with the other EU Member States in the Eurodac system. Among other things: comparison of fingerprints makes it possible for Member States to check whether an asylum seeker or an alien who is illegally staying in the territory of the nation state has already made an application in another Member State, or whether an asylum seeker has illegally moved into what the bill describes as the territory of the European Union. Even though we in the Danish People's Party prefer to call the territory of the nation states, it is, after all, the best invention of man, that is, the nation state, but OK, it should not separate us from this bill. The whole idea of the current system is therefore to avoid asylum shopping, but the system and the Dublin Regulation are obviously not working because there is massive asylum shopping between countries, and this has been the case for many years. That is why border controls and the rejection of asylum seekers at the border are what Denmark needs. There should be no doubt about the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter. However, this does not change the fact that the system is there and that, despite its obvious shortcomings, it can be used for a number of sensible purposes. Among other things: in a number of cases, the system can be used to solve and prevent crime and terrorism. It is therefore proposed that the law enforcement authorities, which basically mean Danish police, should be able to access the system. For the purposes of Article 2 (2), law enforcement shall mean law enforcement. 1, the prevention, detection or investigation of terrorist offences or of other serious offences. In this context, acts of terrorism are defined as offences under national law, which is of course essential for the Danish People's Party. In our view, in the fight against terrorist acts and other serious offences, it is important that the national authorities have as much information as possible to enable them to carry out their work properly and professionally. Therefore, it is crucial that we in Denmark have as much DNA information at our disposal as possible, that we have video surveillance, that we have control at our borders and that we collect information in the context of controls, that the national authorities coordinate with each other, and then, of course, we have to cooperate internationally, where this makes sense, where it is possible and where it does not threaten national sovereignty. All in all, it is the opinion of the Danish People's Party that the bill is moving in the right direction, which is why we expect to vote in favour at the third reading. Before that, we will use the committee procedure to ask what precise powers the draft law gives to the government in relation to concluding agreements with the European Union and what these possible powers might mean for Denmark. In the Danish People's Party, as I said, we are happy to cooperate internationally, but we believe it is important that any new agreements are regularly taken up in the Folketing and in the context of referendums, if deemed necessary. However, we are in favour of this specific legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163200	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163213	We must ensure that our police have the best cards on hand when it comes to preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist acts and other serious offences. The European registers are extremely useful here. Specifically, the bill here makes sure that we can carry out searches in the Eurodac system. This is going to go through the revised Eurodac regulation. Fortunately, we have already partially incorporated the revised Eurodac Regulation into Danish legislation. That is why I welcome the fact that we are now making an even greater effort to incorporate the regulation. This is happening, among other things. through an authorisation clause that gives the Minister of Justice the power to incorporate the regulation into Danish law when it comes to the aggregation and disclosure of information to be used for law enforcement purposes. For example, it will now be possible for Danish police to compare fingerprints internationally in their cooperation. I therefore look forward to being able to inform the Danish police that when this is voted through, hopefully, we will now provide an even better basis for investigation when serious criminal offences occur. Thus, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163326	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one on the platform is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163334	Thank you. The unitary list wants to fight terrorism and wants cross-border cooperation on it. At the same time, we believe it is important to ensure a balance between the rights of society to protect itself from terrorism and the legal certainty of individuals. It is a balance which must be present, and we will of course have an eye on that in the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163357	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. And the rapporteur does not have to run us enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163410	Thank you. The bill here implements the necessary legislative changes so that Denmark can continue to be party to the Eurodac regulation in terms of law enforcement. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we also believe that Eurodac cooperation is important. It is clearly in Denmark's interest to have access to these data in order to prevent, detect and investigate serious offences, such as: Terror. Moreover, we also believe that it is reasonable that asylum cannot be sought in one country and then go on and seek asylum in another country. So the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163447	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163502	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to implement that part of the revised Eurodac Regulation which allows national law enforcement authorities and Europol to compare fingerprint data with fingerprint data in the Eurodac system. The Eurodac system is a common European fingerprint register, originally designed solely to identify asylum seekers, and fingerprints were to be used solely for the purpose of promoting the asylum procedure. However, the revised Eurodac Regulation extends the purpose of Eurodac, for example. police and PET in this country and Europol may carry out searches in Eurodac for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious offences if a comparison of fingerprints is necessary in a specific case. Denmark has been linked to Eurodac on an intergovernmental basis by means of a so-called parallel agreement. Since then, the Eurodac Regulation has been amended for the primary purpose of ensuring the correct and effective application of the Dublin Regulation. This was also one of the reasons why the alternative chose to vote in favour of the proposal the last time we discussed the implementation of the revised Eurodac regulation in the Parliamentary Assembly. We did so because Denmark has a parallel agreement with the European Union on Eurodac and the Dublin Regulation, which means that we will have to make changes to the Eurodac Regulation unchanged. Otherwise, this will mean that Denmark will have to leave Eurodac and therefore also the Dublin Regulation. As I understand it, the part that we are dealing with today is that of access by law enforcement authorities to compare fingerprint data from their own registers with data in the Eurodac system, which is not covered by the parallel agreement, precisely because this is an extension of the purpose. This means that Denmark's attachment to that part of the agreement presupposes that we have an additional protocol to the existing parallel agreement. It also means, as I understand it, that if we choose not to implement this part, it has no consequence for our participation in Schengen cooperation or for our association with the Dublin Regulation. The Minister is very happy to correct me if I'm wrong. What we shall then be dealing with here today is the balance between having the opportunity to solve a possible, planned act of terrorism and the legal certainty of the individual. And it is the case that what the alternative would like to ask questions about in committee and also to the Minister here today is the part of what is really needed for the Danish police and PET to seek access to this information, for example. on a refugee, in the Eurodac system. This requires, for example: a warrant, so you have a judge's word that it's necessary to ask for this information? In addition, I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is understood correctly that we would be able to vote against this proposal, that is to say from Denmark, without going out of Schengen and Dublin. For it is clear that it is very important for the alternative that we remain there. So I shall look forward to the work of the committee and will not take a position today. We then ask a number of questions to the Minister because it is complicated matter. What is crucial for the alternative is that there is a balance between legal certainty for the individual and the fact that we must, of course, give the police and PET proper working conditions in order to be able to discover if there are criminal acts going on so that we can use this register. But I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163854	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And the next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404163901	Thank you. A number of rapporteurs have explained what this draft law is about, namely to join the revision of the Eurodac Regulation adopted by the other EU countries which have joint judicial cooperation. And I would just like to say thank you for our joint judicial cooperation, and thank you for having measures to enable the police to cooperate, to combat terrorism and cross-border crime, and to manage the flow and external borders. That's what this is all about. Thank you for that and thank you for giving us a parallel agreement. And we hope that the other EU countries will also approve that we can now be part of the review. It is a pity that we cannot influence the content, but in the Radical Left we support Denmark's agreement, and we do not believe that there are any advantages in splitting things up and only being part of individual parts now that we are already a country with reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164027	I am now thanking the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164040	We can support this bill. It is also, of course, about the Danish relationship with Eurodac and European police and judicial cooperation, which we strongly supported, in accordance with the referendum which was well a year and a half ago now. That is why we think it is quite natural that the draft law put forward by the government here should be implemented, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164124	The bill relates to Denmark's accession to parts of the revised Eurodac Regulation. This is specifically about the parts that allow Danish law enforcement authorities to seek information in the system. The Eurodac system will be a valuable tool for Danish authorities to investigate and prevent terrorism and other serious crimes. Of course, we must ensure the best possible conditions for investigating terrorism. Much crime, especially terrorism, is taking place today across national borders. Denmark cannot face that challenge alone, and that is why we must work with our friends in the rest of Europe. When criminals cross national borders, information about them must be able to keep up. We must work together to prevent terrorism, including terrorism. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party believes that Denmark should, of course, be part of this important cooperation. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164228	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164237	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving the various rapporteurs. The aim of the draft law, as others have also said, is to bring about the necessary legislative changes which allow Denmark, on an intergovernmental basis, to be associated with the part of the revised Eurodac regulation relating to law enforcement. The other content of the draft law is purely technical. It is important for the government that law enforcement authorities be given the opportunity to conduct searches in the Eurodac system for the prevention and detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious offences. In this way, law enforcement authorities will have an extremely valuable tool that will help them to carry out their work in the best way possible. Denmark has already implemented the amendments to the revised Eurodac Regulation which are covered by the existing parallel agreement between Denmark and the EU and which are closely linked to the Dublin rules. These amendments concerned in particular: a clearer regulation of the time limits for fingerprinting, but also the transmission of data from the central Eurodac system. Three years ago, it was not possible to implement the part of the revised Eurodac Regulation that concerns access to the Eurodac system for law enforcement purposes. This is because law enforcement was a new purpose and is not covered by Denmark's parallel agreement. This means, in concrete terms, that the implementation in Danish law of this part of the Eurodac Regulation requires agreement on the additional protocol to the existing parallel agreement currently being negotiated in Brussels. Finally, for the sake of good order, let me note that the draft law agrees that the government, on behalf of Denmark, approves the agreement on Danish accession to the part of the revised Eurodac Regulation which concerns access to the Eurodac system for law enforcement purposes. It is also agreed that the government, on behalf of Denmark, can agree on an intergovernmental basis that the expected agreements between the EU and the Schengen associated countries will also be applicable to Denmark. With that there is to be thankful for the comments that have fallen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164526	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164542	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164605	Many of the guest workers who came to Denmark in the 1960s and 1970s thought at the time that they should only be here for a few years and then return home for example. Pakistan or Turkey. I myself have read several interviews with them in old newspapers, and I have also subsequently sought them out and interviewed them about what they thought, and they have explained that they came to Denmark to save up for a tractor at home for family farming, and thought that they should be in Denmark for a temporary period, for a short number of years. But the years passed, and eventually they brought the wife and children up here, the children learned Danish and became Danes, and gradually the parents gave up the dream of returning. Instead, many of the first guest workers have maintained close ties with their home countries, and many have even bought real estate, for example. in Turkey. Now many have become older, perhaps pensioners, and the idea of returning home begins to draw on them again, and that is actually perfectly understandable. Many want to live the last few years in the areas where they also lived the first few years. Also among the many refugees who have come here in recent decades, there are more who want to return home, perhaps because they have never really settled here in our country. Both the guest workers and the refugees should not stay in Denmark if they would rather go home, and therefore it is only good that we have arrangements to help them return home. This bill is about the special opportunities that foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark have to travel back to their home country with financial support from the Danish state. It is basically a very good arrangement that many foreigners and Danish society have enjoyed for many years. But our assessment is that the potential for this scheme is much greater than the current scale of the scheme. Our assessment is that even more foreigners really want to go home if they get the right support for it and perhaps also some slightly different conditions and opportunities, and that is why we really welcome this bill which, on the one hand, increases financial support and, on the other hand, extends the circle of people who can receive certain parts of the aid and obliges the municipalities to provide more systematic guidance on the scheme and its possibilities. However, we would also like us to go further than the proposed legislative proposal. We would like to see it become even more attractive for foreigners to go home economically, just as we have a number of more concrete proposals which are not about the economy, but which may help to strengthen the return arrangements. These proposals will be put forward in committee and we really hope that a majority can be created to strengthen the legislative proposal that is here so that we can get some more work done in this system. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164854	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404164906	Thank you. The Danish People's Party can support the bill as we want to focus on the possibility for foreigners to return to their country of origin or to other countries, for that matter. Last year, the government and the Danish People's Party agreed that there should be an increased focus on return to their homeland, and this was done as part of the 2018 Finance Act, where among other things. wanted to strengthen the focus on multiple repatriations and thus also increase the incentives for foreigners to return to their country of origin. The agreement and this bill contain a number of measures aimed at making it more flexible and thus making it easier for individual foreigners to return in relation to receiving financial support. There are various options that we did not have in the past and that we will now have with this bill, among other things. in relation to starting up a new business in the home country. The draft law also introduces a systematic municipal obligation to provide guidance on the repatriation scheme. This is done by imposing an obligation on municipalities to advise resident foreigners about the possibility of repatriating to their home countries or to other countries where they have previously resided, with financial support from Denmark. The systematic guidance shall be provided in the context of the ongoing follow-up of the integration contract and through job centres. The Danish People's Party has, on several occasions, stressed the importance of ensuring that far more people are sent home. We did so in the financial negotiations that were either voluntary or coerced. We have already taken several steps. Earlier today we dealt with a bill which was also intended to make it easier for more foreigners to be sent home. Then there it was about how they could be sent home by force. And this approach is the latest in a wide range of measures. I believe that this bill will have a positive effect, but it will probably also have a limited effect. I also believe that we are being close to the limit of how much we can and must give to foreigners who want to return to their countries. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we have no objection to discussing how things can be done even better. We can, of course, also discuss the size of the aid, but it is a delicate balance, and we would not want foreigners to come here because they know that they can get money to go back home. That would, of course, be untenable. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that where we really need to take action is in relation to forced repatriations, because it will also cause more people to travel voluntarily if they can see that the alternative is that they are sent home with coercion. Having said that, we naturally support the draft law, which everything else is moving in the right direction. And it will certainly cause more people to return home, and it will save Danish society a lot of resources in the long run, but it will far from solve the major challenges that we face. So we see this as a legislative proposal that is based on some of what has already been, and that is why we can, of course, vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165156	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165205	Thank you. I am elected and live on the Copenhagen West Region, and a great many came from Turkey in the late 1960s and early 1970s, and many of them have worked for both three and four decades in Denmark and have acquired dual citizenship; they have both Turkish and Danish citizenship. But they don't really have the opportunity to use these schemes. Could the Danish People's Party support an opportunity to renounce the Danish part of its dual nationality and then take advantage of the repatriation scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165240	Yes, it is also something that we ourselves have mentioned from the Danish People's Party. So that would certainly be a viable way forward. If you renounce Danish citizenship, you could have the opportunity to avail yourself of some of the support schemes provided by Danish legislation in relation to repatriation. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165257	I also hear several people say that they have been working in Denmark for 30, 35 years, and they have spent part of the money buying a holiday home somewhere in Turkey, and there they really want to spend the rest of their lives. But while they have been in Denmark, they have then acquired a right to a fraction pension, perhaps not a full pension, but something more than what the repatriation schemes allow. Could it not be imagined that we were approaching a little more what they would be entitled to in retirement than what the repatriation schemes allow? Would that not be a good agreement both for Denmark and for the people we are talking about? I agree that it should not have any kind of effect, which means that more people are looking for Denmark, but we could possibly limit it to people who have been granted a residence permit, for example. before any particular date.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165347	I must be sure that I understand the question correctly. I would say that, if I have understood correctly, it can of course be defined, and we can easily look at that, but we provide very high benefits, both one-off and ongoing benefits, to those people who want to return to, for example. Turkey, but it may also be other countries. If we go in and regulate these services upwards, as I understand the question, we must go in to look at what we are doing in other European countries, because, as I understand it, we are quite high in repatriation services, both in one-off services and in current services. So we must ensure that Denmark does not become a country to which we come, because we know that we can get support to go back to the country from which we came. These are just some of the things that we need to think carefully about before we go in and raise the individual benefits. But again, we are open to discussing whether one can do more in terms of getting more people to return voluntarily, but the most important thing for the Danish People's Party, and I think that is also the best thing, is that we look at how we can send more people back by force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165451	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165502	We are dealing here with a legislative proposal that strengthens an important arrangement, namely repatriation. In our view, the scheme is important for several reasons. The primary reason is, of course, that it increases the incentive to return home for example. the group of foreigners who may not have been integrated into Danish society, or perhaps because their country has become peaceful again, or for other reasons. Of course, it may also be that you simply want to return to your country of origin, as we just discussed it in relation to people who have come here from Turkey. But regardless of which group it is, we think that they should be given the best possible conditions to return, and that helps this bill. The rapporteur for the Socialist Group has already summarized the various initiatives, and I think they are some very good initiatives, especially the fact that, for example, they are being taken. may take some benefits with them or may receive aid for the purchase of the necessary ID documents. The legislative proposal involves a total extra cost, and it is an additional cost that we would like to take on board, because we often see that foreigners on the edge of society, in particular, are a costly affair for the state, so I think that this arrangement will in itself be a very sensible arrangement, even if there is additional expenditure. In Denmark we must help those who come here and who need our support and protection, but it is just as important to help those who we can get back home to their homeland. The bill helps with this very thing by making a good arrangement even better and not least by spreading knowledge of it through the municipalities. That is why the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165652	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165702	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports improving the opportunities for refugees to return voluntarily to their home country. It is positive that opportunities for conducting reconnaissance visits as well as for receiving support for the return journey are improved. We saw with many Bosnian refugees that after the terrible civil war of the 1990s they chose to return home when the war was over. Here many benefited from the independent advice they received from Danish Refugee Aid. At the same time, we are clearly opposed to the claim that repatriation is best for all refugees. It is clear that if a refugee has lived cards in Denmark and conditions in the country of origin are suddenly significantly improved, so that a lasting and stable peace is created in the country, the person must of course return home, but if a refugee has been in Denmark for many years, the person must of course be allowed to stay. It is of course important to note that what characterises the major refugee groups in Denmark, Iranians, Palestinians, Kurds, Syrians and Eritreans is that they are all in common, that the repression and wars in their countries of origin have been going on for decades and, unfortunately, do not seem to be over in the near future. Finally, we can fully support the consultation responses from the National Association of Municipalities that it should be stated precisely that the possibility of repatriation should not be brought up for each interview, as it will be a totally absurd waste of time, as well as the point from the Institute for Human Rights that the consequences of the residence permit in Denmark should be included in the information that people receive from the municipalities. Finally, we share the point from the Danish Refugee Aid and the Red Cross that excessive focus on repatriation can be both demotivating and detrimental to integration. It is vital that this is aid to refugees who wish to return home voluntarily and that it is impartial advice that does not have a clear lead in advance, but provides the correct information, including on the challenges of returning. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165931	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404165938	The proposal here suggests that the repatriation scheme should be strengthened in various ways. It must be made more flexible, for example. is easier to obtain support for the movement of personal property, support for professional equipment or for the maintenance of public services while settling in your country of origin. From a strict principle point of view, it is a little unfair that you should be able to receive this special aid, but in economic terms it is a good investment for Denmark because the returnees have on average a very small link with the Danish labour market. We see in Denmark that the integration of people from third countries has not been very successful, that immigration has led to relatively large economic and social problems, and in the Liberal Alliance we think it is sensible that we try to limit those problems by increasing the incentives of these people to go home. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170041	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170050	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here on the amendment of the law on repatriation and integration and the law on sickness benefits and the law on unemployment insurance is, of course, all about strengthening incentives for repatriation and about a systematic municipal duty of guidance in relation to getting people to return home. There is no doubt that, in the alternative, we welcome the improved financial framework provided for in the draft law in relation to helping refugees who wish to return home. I am less in favour of the part of the legislative proposal that is about the municipalities being required to guide virtually every time they have contact with refugees. I find this problematic, because what is absolutely crucial is that people and refugees should have the opportunity to decide whether they think it is safe enough for them to return. This means that it must be based on a voluntary basis. There, of course, I also have a lot to do with the KL's hearing answer, where you are worried, even very worried... as I read it... if it is to be the case that every time there is to be a follow-up to, for example, the municipality. The integration contract in job centres, etc., must provide guidance on this, even if it is not relevant. This is definitely counterproductive to the integration that we all want to see happen. At the same time, both the Red Cross and the Danish Refugee Service point out that the integration process will be made more difficult if all foreigners and that is to say, people who still cannot return because they have a need for protection must meet consistently in the public sector with guidance on repatriation, even if it is not possible. We also think, as Danish Refugee Aid points out, that it can send an inappropriate signal to new Danes and people on the run who want to live in Denmark and contribute to Danish society if they are to consistently meet such guidance. That is why I would really like it if it were possible to divide the legislative proposal into two parts, so that one part of the legislative proposal is about the economy, which, of course, the alternative can welcome, whereas we think that the other part should be about that very compulsory guidance, where it is not relevant, and have its own separate legislative proposal. If we cannot have the opportunity to divide up the bill, the alternative will end up voting against the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170352	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then the trip has come to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170400	Thank you. In general, we in the Radical Left are in favour of the bill. We would like to draw attention, as some of the previous rapporteurs do, to the Institute for Human Rights, which calls for information on all the rights and consequences of the draft law, so that it is not just, if I may say so, one side of the medal that is drawn attention to when you are guided on repatriation. It is only legal certainty that they are told everything and that nothing is said about those people. Generally speaking, we are in favour. I am also somewhat concerned, as some of the previous rapporteurs have said, about a number of consultation responses, not so much in relation to the obligation to provide guidance imposed on municipalities, but in relation to the need to be able to obtain performance grants in order to repatriate. This is probably going to be a coincidence, and I think that is simply a strange discrimination against municipalities and a strange incentive to have. Just as Danish Refugee Aid writes in the hearing answer, we in the Radical Left do not think so, and fortunately there is also historical evidence that integration and repatriation are the opposite of each other, perhaps on the contrary. The best experience we have of repatriation is with the former refugees from Yugoslavia in the 1990s, and the best results with repatriation, in other words where most people have gone back to rebuild, are in the municipalities where they quickly got refugees into work and integrated at the time. So it is the world's best advertisement for integration to work from day one. If you really mean it by repatriation, you should use all your strength to ensure good integration and a good and quick entry into the labour market, because these are the only robust results we have so that we can really succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170634	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170644	This bill is part of the financial agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party. It is then, one might say, another illustration of the fact that a blind hen can find a grain sometimes. For this is actually a quite sensible legislative proposal with some quite groundy improvements in terms of repatriation and with greater flexibility, better opportunities and so on. That's why we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170722	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170735	In Denmark we have helped thousands of refugees who have fled war and strife over time, and also many immigrants have had the opportunity to work and contribute to Danish society. Some have been integrated and have become part of Denmark and have created a life in Denmark. Others are mentally different and do not participate in Danish society and may even not have a desire for it. Some of them want to go home, and we need to help them with that. Therefore, the government and the Danish People's Party agreed with the Danish Finance Act 2018 to strengthen the opportunities and incentives for refugees and immigrants to return home. The bill focuses on changing those parts of the scheme that facilitate the return journey and the challenges that arise when you have to start a fresh start in your home country. We are introducing, among other things, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. support for the acquisition of identity documents, just as we provide for the possibility of keeping public services when you go to your home country to find out whether you have to return permanently. We also change the limit for support for transporting property from 2 m3 to 30.000 DKK. It is much easier for municipalities to manage. In addition, we introduce a duty of guidance for the municipalities, so you always have to take up repatriation in a relevant case. It goes without saying that if we need more people to move home, they should also know that the opportunity is there. Denmark must help refugees as best we can, but it is never the best solution to remain on public support. It is much better to come home and help build your home country where you know the language and culture. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170932	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404170942	I would also like to thank you for the debate on this bill, which has, of course, enjoyed relatively broad support, even from the Socialist People's Party, which is surprising and wonderful, I would say absolutely. The redeployment scheme is an important element of the integration policy pursued by the government. In Denmark we must help those who come here and who need protection. We must help them at the time when they need protection, but at the same time it is also important that those who do not fall here and who want to return to their country of origin, when the situation in the country permits, have the best opportunities for it. This applies both to refugees, where the circumstances of their country of origin now allow them to return and continue the life they had before the war and the persecution, and before they were forced to come here. But this also applies to immigrants who have been many years in Denmark but who could have a wish to spend, for example. their old age together with the family in their home country. Then we should not be blind to the fact that in Danish society today there is a group of foreigners who are without education, without jobs and thus actually also outside society, who either cannot or have a desire to be integrated and who are therefore not an active part of Danish society. Here, a future in the homeland is a much better alternative for all parties rather than a continued existence on the outer edge of Danish society. In the country of origin, you can speak, you know culture, and you can easily settle in. Here we can see that exactly the repatriation scheme actually provides targeted help, and the money goes to a large extent to support those people who have no links with the Danish labour market. In 2016, we had an analysis that showed that there was only 7%. of those who were repatriated in working age who were in employment here in Denmark. Back in June 2017, we improved the scheme by among others. to introduce increased aid for health insurance and help with school costs in the country of origin for families with school children, and then we reinstated a performance grant to the municipalities of up to 25,000 DKK. for each foreigner who was repatriated. With this bill, we strengthen further the incentives to repatriate, and we turn up the ongoing counselling in the municipalities. The amendments implement parts of the agreement, called "Focus on return to homeland', which was part of the 2018 Finance Act, which the government entered into with Dansk Folkeparti in December 2017. The draft law will make it easier to provide support for professional equipment suitable for promoting the employment opportunities of foreigners in their country of origin. We are removing the bureaucracy surrounding that equipment should be specifically assessed as suitable for rebuilding the country, and this makes the support options more flexible. We are also calling for an upper limit of DKK 30,000 to be introduced into the Return Act. for how much can be given in support of the transport of personal property. At the same time, we remove the previous provision that no more than 2 m3 may be paid for the transport of property. We also propose to introduce opportunities for foreigners as an alternative to the transport of personal property to receive up to DKK 30,000. for the purchase of household gardens in their home country. So instead of paying more money to move their things, they can buy new furniture, for example. in the country of origin. With the bill, we also propose that more foreigners can maintain their public services while they are on reconnaissance trips in their country of origin. Of course, in order to return home, you must also have the necessary identification documents. They must be in order, but there are countries that do not have a passport in Denmark, and therefore the individual foreigner must travel to the nearest representation in order to obtain a nationality passport. We are now introducing the possibility of receiving support for that journey. Of course, in order to benefit from the repatriation scheme and the new measures, it is essential to know the scheme. In order to further raise awareness of the repatriation scheme, therefore, we are at last committed to reintroducing the obligation for municipalities to provide regular guidance to foreigners on repatriation in all the conversations that the municipality has with citizens in the general integration and employment effort. I am very pleased that, with what has been said here today, we are now spreading knowledge of this system, but of course we are also making an already good system even better and that there will be more support opportunities so that those who cannot or will not settle in here can return to the country from which they originally came.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171534	Thus the Minister's words. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171539	Thank you. It is quite good that we are now doing a little more to see if we cannot persuade more people to return voluntarily to their home countries. After all, this is something that the Folketing has been very concerned with in recent years and several changes have been made to the repatriation scheme in relation to voluntary repatriation. However, despite the fact that many changes have been made, the number of people travelling back is limited. If you look at how many people have come to Denmark and then look at how many people are going back voluntarily to their home countries, you can't exactly say that this has been a thundering success. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think this proposal is, of course, excellent, and it is good that there is a need for more focus on the part about how we can send people back to their home countries with coercion. We simply have to do more about this. So I want to hear whether the Minister will be prepared to discuss how, in addition to all the initiatives we agree on, we can ensure that the authorities send more people back to their home countries, including through forced repatriations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171643	So now it has to be said that what we are discussing here today is a voluntary return journey and that we are even being supported in the voluntary return journey. But I can assure you, sir. Martin Henriksen to send foreigners out of the country, for example. I don't have the right to be here, but one of the things that fills really, really is very much for me. And I think so too, because if you have no right to be here, you should of course leave the country. Some people don't want to do it voluntarily, and sometimes they have to do it. But I think, too, sir. Martin Henriksen is very familiar with the fact that there are countries which do not accept their own citizens unless they have left voluntarily. We certainly have to take action there, and we do. I am spending more and more of my time negotiating with some of these countries, because it is a totally untenable situation for people who do not have the right to be in Denmark, such as Denmark. does not have a protection requirement, remains here. So I can say to Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen, that it is something that takes up a lot not only for me, but of course also for the rest of the government, and I am aware that it also does for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171758	I fully agree that the government and also the Minister are making an effort and also getting something done, I think, by talking to other countries about accepting their own citizens. But it can be said that the first step in sending people out is to withdraw their residence permit. The foreign authorities have looked at the cases of people from Somalia who have withdrawn or refused the extension of residence permits for a number of people. But we would like the Danish People's Party to extend it to other groups of countries and people who are in Denmark. So the question is really whether the Minister will be prepared to make more of the effort to withdraw or refuse the extension of residence permits to persons who come from countries other than Somalia but who are staying in Denmark. For yes, we can come a bit in relation to voluntary repatriation, but we also need to go much further into explaining to these people that they must return to their country of origin. If they do so voluntarily, that is fine, but if they do not, we will have to send more homes with coercion. So will the efforts that are currently being made be extended?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404171908	First of all, of course, we have an obligation to keep looking through these cases. Then it's true, as Mr. Martin Henriksen indirectly points out that we have jointly prioritised it, and we have done so through agreements in the context of financial law negotiations. This has also meant that more people have had their residence permit withdrawn. But to put it a little square: it's no use just withdrawing the residence permit if we can't get these people out of the country again. Things are pretty much intertwined. But, by the way, I can encourage you, sir. Martin Henriksen that it is many years since we have had as few in broadcasting positions as we now have, and I very much attribute that to the rather active way in which we work in this area, simply by sending out those people who have no right to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172004	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172007	Thank you. Now I have no such Gallup investigation in my back, but if I put myself down with a bunch of Social Democratic roses in front of Bilka in Ishøj and talk to people, I'm always amazed at how many people are really interested in these repatriation schemes, how many people have questions about them. One of the questions people ask is: if they have dual citizenship, why is it not actually possible for them to renounce their Danish citizenship and then take advantage of this scheme? That's where I always get them answers. Why don't we just do that? Is the government all right with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172046	In any case, it would be a prerequisite to renounce Danish citizenship. But I think we should try to look at what opportunities there are, and I would very much like to be involved in discussing what obstacles might be involved. But it is clear that one condition is that we should no longer be able to obtain any benefits here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172110	Another question that people have is that, for example, there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. many people want to move to Turkey. But they still have away family who live in Denmark, and they would like to be able to get to Denmark quickly if illness occurs in the family or they are going to a funeral or something. And they're a little tired of going to Ankara and applying for a visa every time. There's wait and stuff like that. It would be a good thing if people who have been repatriated could be given a national visa limited. But I can understand that is not something that we in Denmark can just decide for ourselves that these are some international rules. But here I would like to know whether the government is prepared to work so internationally to make it possible to issue a national visa limited, for example. to Turkey, which is probably the country from which we have received the most immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172159	Well, first of all, there may be something international. Secondly, there is also something in principle about the fact that you should not just be able to pick all the fruits in all possible ways and have all the benefits. I would like to see if you have not settled here, you have to go back to the home country from which you come, and then, in my opinion, you are there on the same terms as if you had not been in Denmark. That's gotta be it. You can't just pick all the good fruits and then leave everyone else hanging and we'll just have to pay. Well, there's gotta be a limit, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172231	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180404172255	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 5 April 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
