ParlaMint-DK_20180508130029	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130038	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130053	Thank you so much. Life, as everyone knows, consists of many choices. One of them took place in Greenland on 24 April, where the Greenlanders went to the ballot boxes, and so I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Greenland on a successful election at the extended Question Time. There is now a coalition basis for four parties, and now the constitution itself awaits. It will be exciting, I will follow it closely and look forward to meeting with the re-elected Home Ruler, Kim Kielsen, in connection with the Kingdom meeting that will take place next month in the Faroe Islands. Here in the Folketing we are faced with negotiations on the energy policy of the future, and there we also have to make some choices. Denmark is a green power. We have to stay that way. We have a world record in proportion to wind power. According to the United Nations World Energy Council, we have the world's best energy system. According to the World Bank, we have the world's best conditions for green investment, and if you ask the World Wildlife Fund, we are the world's best for green entrepreneurship. Since the change of system in 2001, the share of green electricity in Denmark has more than tripled, and during the same period Denmark has had a bourgeois-liberal government for 12-13 of the 17 years. Of course, this does not give us, who have had the greatest share of government responsibility, a patent on green development, but we do not want to give up responsibility either. We are at the forefront of the green global initiative P4G, which will deliver solutions to the global goals and climate agenda through concrete partnerships and a summit in Copenhagen later this year, and in 14 days we will be co-hosting a major energy conference with countries that account for 75%. of the world's CO2 So it is not wrong to say that leaders around the world look at us in Denmark when they have to shape their own energy policy, and therefore we cannot just bask in the results we have already achieved. We must continue to put our ambitions high and to move the world in a greener direction. And, of course, the big question is: How do we do that? Of course, we can choose here in one of the world's richest and freest countries, with historically high employee employment, low asylum rates, the lowest in 9 years, strong welfare and prosperity across the line • just say to the rest of the world: spend more money on the green. But perhaps it would be too easy and too unambitious, especially in relation to those countries which are already struggling with poverty, with internal unrest and a lack of clean water. So instead, we should show that green energy can also be cheap energy, a sensible choice in every way. And that is why the government is proposing a road that both leads to more green energy and leads to cheaper green energy at one and the same time. We will invest in the largest offshore wind farm in Danish history, in more solar energy, in more land winds, in biogas and in the technologies of the future, and at the same time we will lower the electricity tax and the electric heating tax. It will increase the share of green energy, it will give Danish families more air in the budget, it will give Danish companies more competitive power, and at the same time we will help to set new international standards and expand our position as a green pioneer country. I hope and believe that we in Parliament can conclude a broad and ambitious energy agreement. That is what we have done historically and which has brought us to the place where we are now, and I am pleased to note that others have made good, constructive proposals. I very much welcome that. Some of the proposals may be more in a climate agreement than in an energy agreement. I don't want it to take us apart. I have already said that, after the summer holidays, the government will come up with a real climate challenge. We want a broad political agreement on the energy policy of the future. I hope, and I think I can succeed, and I would like to take this opportunity here today to make the clear call for everyone to put solutions before tactics so that we can reach an agreement as soon as possible before the summer. It deserves our green businesses, it deserves Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130539	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Then there are two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. We shall begin with the North Atlantic mandates. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130600	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comments. As the Prime Minister himself said, there were elections in Greenland on 24 April. There are well-known challenges in Greenland: a primary school we need to strengthen, 5,000 children who are miserable, and an inequality similar to the American one. At the same time, we also know that there is a massive need to boost growth, so we can afford the welfare of the future, otherwise Greenland will end up in the mouths of death. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, the choice was a value struggle. We want the fight for independence to take place at a realistic pace and without a marked deterioration in welfare and we want better population involvement. Therefore, it is also important for us that there is progress and that there will be growth in Greenlandic society, but also that there is room for everyone in Greenlandic society. It worries us at Inuit Ataqatigiit that more and more people are moving from Greenland to Denmark and that Greenland is looking at it passively. There is a great likelihood that this tendency to move away from Greenland will continue, and this is a dangerous path for all of us, because the fewer we are in Greenland, the harder it is also to maintain welfare in the future. One of the great themes during the election campaign was independence. And one fact after the elections is that there is a political majority that wants independence, but at very different stages. Recently, a coalition agreement has been concluded with a narrow majority of the parties that want a faster process of autonomy, with the risk that it will go beyond the level of welfare. That worries me personally, and I also think that this concerns a great many people in Greenland. Part of the election was also about dissatisfaction with the Danish government, and unfortunately I see it being used as an opportunity to speak for faster independence. That is why I think it is reasonable for the Prime Minister to have the opportunity to respond to that criticism, and so I would ask the Prime Minister whether he believes there is room for improvement in the Kingdom Community and, if so, what improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130809	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508130812	Thank you. There is certainly room for improvement in the Kingdom community, just as I think there is room for improvement in all parts of the Kingdom community. Now, of course, I have made a great deal of effort and also instructed my ministers to refrain from discussing Greenland policy issues during the election campaign in complete respect of the Greenlandic electoral procedure. I shall not comment on the outcome as such either. But I don't have to hide the fact that there are things that worry me. I am concerned about the discussion in Greenland about the location of the Danish language. It is not for the protection of the Danish language, but because an integral part of the Danish community is precisely the fact that Denmark is open as in the total open to all Greenlandic young people who want to improve their skills. And the prerequisite for you to take the leap is that in Denmark the Danish language that is spoken is that you master the Danish language. So that is one thing that worries me in the Greenlandic debate. I certainly think there are places where we could expand our cooperation. And I can then use this opportunity again to repeat what I have said a number of times directly to the President of the Government, in Greenland's media and also here in the Assembly Hall, without any response, namely that if there is a desire in Greenland for a conversation about closer cooperation, for example. on business promotion, investment, infrastructure, assistance in addressing the sustainability of e.g. the airport projects that are currently being discussed, we are happy to put up with them. But it takes someone to take out the hand we reach out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131006	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131008	Thank you very much. Well, now we're gonna have to, among other things. discuss languages later today, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Personally, I believe that when we talk about independence, there is a need to separate the criticism and the dissatisfaction that exists. We also have political movements in Greenland in our society, which would like to see an internal division and which sees a Greenland for the few. I strongly reject that group and movement, because I believe that they do not serve the interests of the wider community, but often only their own interests. The criticism that I believe to be real, however, is about discrimination in pay between Greenlandic and Danish police officers and about unfair pay conditions for asylum officers in Greenland. I believe that there is a need for a more rapid political solution than the one proposed by the government, because, unfortunately, such discrimination increases the dissatisfaction that exists in Greenland. The Prime Minister himself said in a speech a few weeks ago that there is a need to modernise the Kingdom community. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he really means by that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131115	May I not say that I understand quite fundamentally that every people must have a natural desire for independence and sovereignty. I understand. I think that the dimension that somewhere is missing is: what does it mean to be sovereign and independent? It is also a debate we have in Denmark, because seeing ourselves as a sovereign nation is not the same as shutting off the outside world. We have a staunch debate that we gain our wealth in contact with the outside world. I think it would be desirable for this formal idea of autonomy to be more closely followed by concrete action to stand on its own feet economically, to secure its future prosperity. And when I just want to round off the matter of modernising the Commonwealth, it is because I also want a substantial discussion with Greenlandic politicians about these things and not one that is characterised by mutual concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131224	Thank you very much. Over the years, we have achieved a great deal through the Kingdom Community. We first had home rule, and now we have autonomy. I think it is important to emphasise that the self-government wheel must be kept going and must not stop. We must also recognise that, if we want to preserve a community in the short term, we also need to develop the Kingdom community. It takes two for a tango, and it also takes at least two to build a bridge. Over the past few years, we have discussed the Kingdom Community and we have discussed independence several times in this Chamber. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants to maintain a good and constructive relationship both within and outside the Kingdom community. We have among other things. the work of an Arctic investment fund, and we believe that some good, concrete ideas are needed on how we can continue to develop relations between countries. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore launches an initiative this autumn with some concrete ideas for renewed and constructive cooperation between the countries. How does the Prime Minister imagine that we can work in a more concrete way across countries on constructive cooperation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131328	I can completely recognize the picture with two to a tango, as I have no more sense of it than that, but it is then just a spectator's observation, and it is the same with two to build a bridge. Then I repeat myself a little, because I have in Greenland's media, directly to the President of the Government and in several debates here in the Assembly, indicated that if in Greenland, and this must be the Greenland Government, because it is like the government's partner in cooperation, it is a desire for a conversation about closer strategic cooperation, also to raise some of the challenges that Greenland faces, then I would like to enter into such a discussion. Now you have run pre-qualification at airports; I do not think it is entirely clear what the business models below exactly look like, where the funding should come from etc.; A number of questions arise. But I can't force that conversation on anyone. In respect of the desire for independence and the law of self-government, it will be necessary for there to be a Greenlandic government prepared for that dialogue with the Danish government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131438	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, NQ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131450	Thank you very much. 2018 is the tenth anniversary of the signature of the Ilulissat Declaration. With that signature, the United States, Norway, Russia, Denmark/Greenland and Canada joined forces, and internally it was agreed that one would respect the Convention on the Law of the Sea and that one would hold the Arctic Polar Sea as a low-tension area. It has worked very well, and until today it is the most important document that ensures a low-voltage area in the Arctic Polar Sea. That was 10 years ago today. The Ilulissat Declaration was signed in 2008, but since 2008 the world has changed very much. The Kingdom community is changing. The political system and landscape are changing, but so is the rest of the world. Since 2008, the Arctic has become the most important field of action for the Russians and for the Chinese, but certainly also for Norway. We have introduced self-government and the interest of the Chinese in the Arctic area is enormous. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the changes taking place in the Arctic regions of the Danish Kingdom, which are after all 20%. of the entire Arctic. How does the Prime Minister feel about the Arctic area, and how does the Prime Minister feel about the Kingdom Community in these times, when the world around us is changing very, very much, apart from the fact that we have one voice in the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131637	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131639	It is, of course, a very big question which was, in fact, worthy of a question debate and which is difficult to address in two minutes. But first of all, it is important to maintain this ambition to ensure that the Arctic is a low-voltage area. That is why we can also express our satisfaction at the fact that, in a situation where it has to be said that the European-Russian relationship is greatly cooled, also in the light of what we have seen in Salisbury and Ukraine, we have managed to maintain a peaceful dialogue on the Arctic. We must stress this and that is why the work of the Arctic Council is so important. That is also why the Arctic is a priority in the defence agreement we have just concluded. We need to keep that track. It also follows on from what I said before, namely that I would like to have a substantive discussion with the Greenland Government on the future of Greenland and on Greenland's opportunities and on a genuine partnership between the two parts of the Kingdom Community, Denmark and Greenland. I have no other wish. However, it is a matter of course of concern that the Greenland Government has an interest in taking such a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131801	Just now, the Prime Minister used the words strategic cooperation with Greenland. After all, Denmark has a strategic cooperation with the United States, also physically in the form of Pituffik, in connection with the military presence of the Americans in Greenland. It has created a lot of dissatisfaction in the Kingdom community with what the Americans have left behind in Greenlandic nature, and the biggest case of all of them is Camp Century. I also know that the governments of Denmark and Greenland agree that something needs to be done and that some funds have been set aside to make sure that you look at starting the first stage of clean-up in Camp Century. It is a very grumpy common history for which Greenlandic nature pays a high price. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: if it turns out that it is more grumpy than initially assumed, how will the Prime Minister tackle this matter in order to ensure that it will be a solution with which both countries in the Commonwealth can agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131917	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131919	It is precisely for this reason that, in the context of the defence settlement that we have just concluded, we have set aside a framework of 180 million if I do not remember wrong. kr. to be able to carry out environmental cleanup in relation to Camp Century. I know that a good collaboration has been established between the relevant Danish authorities and the Greenlandic counterpart to handle this task. And we are going into and have allocated resources for this because we are looking at it very seriously and because we have the basic point of view that we need to clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508131958	Mrs. Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132000	The EU is a very important cooperation body for Greenland. Despite the fact that we are not a member of the European Union, we are still the most important OCT country in the European Union as a partner, and our partnership agreement runs for a period of seven years at a time. The EU budgets are currently under discussion and, of course, this also has a crucial role to play in Danish support throughout the debate on the Greenlandic part of the Kingdom Community. The additional resources that the European Union devotes to our fisheries agreement and the extension of our cooperation in promoting the level of education in Greenland with EU money are very, very important for our education strategy in Greenland. So I would like to ask a little about the Prime Minister's own suggestion of what the situation is now and what support Greenland can count on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132055	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132057	Thank you. I can say that I am extremely observant that we need to work hard to maintain this Greenland instrument when we establish the new multiannual financial framework for EU cooperation. After all, the Commission has just presented a proposal in which there are a lot of challenges, because it blows up the previous 1% ceiling. of GNP and goes up to 1.11 and it will seize something similar to 2 billion. kr. extra a year in the Danish contingent • which I find difficult to see how we should finance, because it is a very large part of the room. So there will be a fight in the European Union to keep the budget in order. But it should not shake the fact that, at the same time, we have to fight a battle to keep the Greenland Instrument on board. I am very, very aware of that. It was, in effect, among other things. in the light that I had Mr Donald Tusk with me in Greenland not long ago, and I can say that I am currently planning a visit to Greenland with President Jean-Claude Juncker of the Commission within a few months. At least there is an interest in that. Because I think it is important for the EU system to pay attention to Greenland's particular location and to Greenland's specific needs. So my handshake is that the Danish Government will do everything we can to maintain that there is a Greenland grant also in a future EU budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132223	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's mr. Bjarni Hammer from Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132233	Thank you for that, President. And góðan dagin, sir. Prime Minister. I am going to ask a little bit about the gradually lengthy process of getting a new police station for the police and prosecutor in the Faroe Islands. It is almost 10 years since the police had to move out of the then station in Thorshavn, a station which was already out of date at that time. Since then, there have been various temporary solutions. Personally, I have as a policeman, for example. experienced working for a long time with base in some containers. In addition, the police in Thorshavn have not had a detention in almost 8 years, why arrests every time should be run for almost 1 hour to the nearest detention. It goes without saying that such a situation is unsustainable. That is why it is good that we are working to get a permanent framework for the police. Now it is so decided that you want to convert a former bank into a police station, but if you talk to private policemen and with others who understand these plans, there's a lot of scepticism about this solution. You are simply afraid that you will spend far too much money and too many years on a far too bad solution. Fortunately, I think the project has not yet begun. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: is the government willing to stop briefly and look seriously at the opportunity that policemen want, namely a building built from the ground up for the purpose? What I am hearing is that, since the present plans were put in place, new opportunities have emerged, among other things. with a brand-new police station. Will the government look at these opportunities and create the best possible facilities for the police, also in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132428	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132430	Thank you. Let me take this opportunity to wish Sir. Bjarni Hammer welcome here in the Folketing. I look forward to working together, and I am absolutely sure the Minister for Justice will, because I will refer to the Minister for Justice. In relation to the question: Yes, we want nothing but to ensure that the police in the Faroe Islands also have the best possible conditions. I am not fully informed or prepared to discuss the precise location of the police in Thorshavn and what buildings are in play with pros and cons. However, I have just had a brief dialogue with the Minister for Justice, who will be very willing to take a bilateral meeting with Mr. Bjarni Hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132514	Thank you, President. I just want to elaborate a little more. Another problem is something as lowpractical as the location of this bank building, which is very central in Thorshavn. It's close to the very busy R.C. Effersøe street, right next to the country's largest shopping mall. The Prime Minister probably knows this area quite well, but to illustrate the problem for the rest of the Danish Parliament, it is similar to making a trail in each direction outside Christiansborg, and then you make a huge middle discount between these tracks, and from there you have to run out of the country's largest police station, even during rush hour. Therefore: Does the Prime Minister think that this is a good idea, and shouldn't we look at these new opportunities before it's too late?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132602	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132604	Thank you. I know both SMS Shopping Centre and R.C. Effersøe's street. By the way, I intend to spend my Christ's ascension holiday in the Faroe Islands, so it can give me an opportunity to study these problems a little closer, but it is the Minister of Justice, as Mr. Bjarni Hammer must bring the dialogue with him. I do not know the exact stage of progress in planning, the reasons behind it and any alternative options. But the Minister of Justice will be very willing to drink a cup of coffee and have a meeting with Mr. Bjarni Hammer about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132642	There's one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132644	Thank you very much, President. It has to be said that at first there were not many other alternatives, but within the last year, and as recently as actually a few weeks ago, some of the biggest money tanks in the Faroe Islands have shown great interest in this project. I have also personally spoken to some of those who would very much like to finance, build and long-term rental a new, modern police station with all necessary facilities both for the police and for the prosecution. I am again addressing the question to the Prime Minister, although I know that it is the Minister for Justice who has it under him, because one last time I would like to hear the Prime Minister and the chairman of the Danish Liberal Party: will the government again consider allowing private players to take on this task before it is too late?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132738	I can say, overall and in principle, that the government has no concern whatsoever about public-private cooperation, as in none. There are also plenty of concrete examples of it around Denmark, also in relation to the location of public administration and other things, so that should certainly not be rejected. But that is a point of principle, because again: I think that the best way to get a status on what is going on with a project; what reasons are behind it; whether there is something that can be adjusted; and whether there are alternatives and what they might have an impact on timeframes and other things, is that it is done in a direct dialogue between the questioner and the Minister of Justice. After all, the Minister of Justice has done both the questioner and me the honour of attending this dialogue so that it can be conducted directly in a bilateral conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132830	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508132841	Thank you. Then we have to do something quite different. It is now well over a week since the public contracts fortunately fell into place. At the last minute, we have to say, we managed to get the country agreements and thus avoid a major conflict which could have put Denmark at a standstill. I think that, despite the fact that we managed to make agreements, and there is reason to really welcome that, too, was a process that should encourage a little reflection here at Christiansborg, first and foremost on the conditions under which many public servants work. I think it has been very clear that many public servants have discussed, dealt with and responded to much more than what was actually negotiated in the agreements, simply because they run heavily in many places too strongly. I think that we need to get our hands on public sector reform going, so that we give more room for professionalism, individual discretion and, therefore, freedom to achieve some of the results we want politically. But it is also a process, I think, that needs to be thoughtful of the public collective bargaining system, because the level of conflict has been high. It was in 2008, and it was in 2013. The possibilities of strike and lockout do not want to be touched, it is part of the Danish labour market model, but I would like to discuss with the Prime Minister if there is no basis for a common relationship today whether we should not renew the Danish labour market model, which we value and which works very well on the private labour market. I'm not pretending to have a completed roadmap for that, I don't think any of us have that. I do not think it is suitable for political conflict either, but I think it is appropriate for reflection and reflection: can we better design our labour market model, for example by strengthening the conciliation institution, or be inspired by the other Scandinavian countries, whose labour market is, of course, similar to ours? So a concrete question to the Prime Minister whether the government will take the initiative to initiate work to renew the Danish labour market model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133101	Thank you. First of all, I share Mrs Mette Frederiksen's satisfaction that agreements have been reached. It has been a long process and it has been close to deadline. It is sometimes the case that it is also deadlines that make you reach the goal. So in this sense, the Danish model has delivered us believe. Because then there are votes which are also an integral part of this whole process. That is why I believe that my answer will fall into two parts. I actually share the view that when this is in the house, but I don't think it's in the house until the vote is taken, then there's reason to reflect on this process. I think there are in all parts of society, both employers and employees, and more systematically. So I would very much like to join in a relaxed atmosphere after early June, when the result is there, to have a conversation, including with Mrs Mette Frederiksen and other party leaders who might be interested, about what this might give rise to. But it will be at that time, in respect of the fact that votes are under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133215	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133217	I think this is the right time and I look forward to the invitation. I am, of course, pleased that the Prime Minister chooses to take up that call and welcome it. I shall look forward to it. If we are then in the constructive room here and both parties smile, it might be that we should move on to the next point and see if it could go as well there, because, like the Prime Minister, I am also concerned about how the forthcoming energy negotiations are going to take place. We feel the way Social Democrats feel, that is why we have presented a major proposal that we think the environment and nature have a value in themselves. We are exceptionally skilled in Denmark when it comes to the green transition, and when the rest of the world has to look for answers, whether it is about renewable energy, the future storage of it, waste sorting or ensuring clean drinking water, you look towards Denmark and not least towards Danish companies and Danish employees. After all, if we do not have the political capacity to set the next major and ambitious targets, we risk losing the green driver's shirt. The fact that we want to go further than the government is one matter, and we want to do so in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency and research, and that is what we want when it comes to how many green cars will drive on the roads. But let it be said that something else is then whether or not we could drag the government to where we get more for the money there is. In other words, it has succeeded in establishing what could be called a green space. We made an agreement about the PSP; there is money in the future to create the new green solutions. That is really what I would like to discuss with the government, because I have not been able to fail to see that what the government is proposing in particular is to lighten taxes, i.e. taxes, and I think that is 70%. of the money the government wants to spend on this, which goes to tax reliefs. Therefore, my question is really specific to the Prime Minister: if we could not have more climate, could we not have more green energy, could we not have a better green transition by spending that money on securing more electric cars, electric buses, a greater degree of energy efficiency and even more sea wind?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133435	No, I do not think so, because then we would have proposed it. For there is, of course, a reason why we have proposed a package that is under discussion and, as in all sorts of other areas, we do not think that once we have finished the negotiations, it is 1:1 left in what the government has proposed. It almost goes without saying. However, we have proposed a package that is balanced for various reasons, with massive investments, including among others. In Danish history's largest offshore wind farm, a clear indication that more must follow, a screening for 10 GW additional offshore wind turbine facilities and then some wise tax reliefs... also recommended in principle by the Environmental Economic Council... there is a question of lightening the electricity tax and the electricity tax in general in order to actually create a stronger incentive to use electricity. Because we've gotten a really, really long way to secure continuous power. You have to be careful with numbers after memory, but I guess it's something that looks like, I think, 60%. of our electricity, which is produced green. But if you're looking at how much it's continuous in relation to our total energy consumption, I guess it's something that looks like about half. This is due, among other things, to: the fact that we have not yet had the breakthrough where we use green electricity also in our heating. So what lies behind the government's initiative is among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to give us an assurance that he will be able to do so in the near future. shall choose between a new oil pine or a heat pump, choose the current for. So it's a balanced bid to reach the green. I have taken note of the fact that the Social Democratic Party has some other bids and that is how it should be and that is also a good start in order to be able to sit down and hold some negotiations which, I hope, can lead to a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133629	Thank you. Then both have exceeded the speaking time; there has been justice, since both have been given the same time. Here you go. Now it's only 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133638	Thank you. I'll limit myself this time. I have to say that I disagree with the Prime Minister on how to get the most climate out of the money there is. On the other hand, I think that the Prime Minister has made a really important realization, namely that it will probably also be difficult for the government to get through its policy in this area. And it's gratifying, seen with social-democratic glasses. I hope that later today we can jointly present an agreement with regard to the Landsbygningsfonden and the fight against parallel societies, and that other parties in the Folketing will succeed in preventing the government from taking 13 billion. kr. directly from the land's tenants, just as we have succeeded in other areas, not least because of the cooperation with the Danish People's Party • have been able to prevent the government from pulling Denmark wrong. But back on the green track: I do not think the Prime Minister is answering the question, because if we were in a situation where we could produce 100%. renewable energy, I would agree with the tax trail, but when we cannot produce 100%. clean energy out of contact, we need to ensure more sea wind, and not least in transport, we need to ensure that Danes drive more hydrogen, hybrid and electric cars instead of staying in their petrol and diesel cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133749	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133751	I therefore agree with the challenges facing transport. There we also have a common responsibility, because we have jointly made the agreement that means that we now have the tax structure we have on the electric cars • because the previous government, as it were, forgot to recognise its ambitions at the time, so that it was also linked in the years of estimates. So there we have jointly taken responsibility for cleaning up and picking up a bill. I would like to take part in discussing this at some point, and that is also why I have already announced that the government will come up with a proposal after the summer holiday on climate, CO2 Let me just say, compared to the other, that there is both a supply side and a demand side, and we have to increase both at one and the same time. We need more green energy and we need more green energy. These things need to be balanced, and the government's proposal is a bid for: large investments in building up, more production of green energy, a greater incentive for consumers to demand it too. That's smart. It is not ideology, it is wisdom. This is also why the Environmental Economic Council, among other things, has been called upon to do so. has recommended this all over again. And we look forward to negotiating it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133906	Thank you. And then the question is closed. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508133912	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister, both for his introductory remarks, but also for the reply given by the Prime Minister to Mrs Mette Frederiksen a moment ago on the possible adjustment of the conditions that apply when negotiating agreements on the public labour market. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I will certainly be fully involved in that discussion and will also look forward to having that discussion at a time when hopefully everything is in place, it can be said, in relation to the current negotiations that have been, but where we can then discuss how it can be or possibly be adjusted in relation to the future perspective. However, what I would otherwise use the question time for was to resume a discussion which I have had with the Prime Minister twice in question hours. It is on the basis of developments in Germany with a new government, a new government base and an early ceiling, it seems as far as the number of family reunifications is concerned. In the past I have tried to get the Prime Minister to make it clear that if Germany can, Denmark can too. So if Germany introduces a ceiling on the number of family reunifications, we will also be able to do so in Denmark. I have not had a very clear answer to that which I would like, and that is why my joy was great when I saw that the Prime Minister sent his Minister for Integration to Germany, Berlin, to discuss it here. And in this regard, 14 days ago, the Minister for Integration then said: if you can do it in Germany, you can do it in Denmark too. And what I would like today to get the Prime Minister to do is to make these words from the Minister of Integration to the Prime Minister's own. So now I ask for the third time: can we not get the promise that if Germany introduces such a ceiling, the starting point is that then we can do it in Denmark too, and then we are doing it here in Denmark too?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134116	Thank you. And then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134118	Thank you. I think I'd prefer to use my own words about this. I am fully aware of the fact that a government has been formed in Germany which has an ambition to set a ceiling on the number of family reunifications for those that we in Denmark would call § 7 paragraph 7. We all know what we're talking about, or the questioner and I do at least a thousand a month. We have the benefit of seeing the bill. I think it's close. We have the benefit of seeing the legal argument. I have to say that it seems to me that it would be difficult to take immediate action against the Supreme Court judgments that have fallen in Denmark. But to go into this matter in a completely different place, I would like to say that I think we need to look at: what is it that is going to get this thing going in Germany at all? What sets this in motion in Germany is, of course, in full respect for Germany that policy has not been changed in time. In 2015-2017, Germany has received over 1.4 million asylum applications. The Swedes have well received in the vicinity of a few hundred thousand during the same period. We've received 31,000. And that's because we got it under control. This is because the government has tightened up with the Danish People's Party. This also means that even if you are playing with the idea of saying that there is going to be a German ceiling, and we translate it into Danish Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has previously pointed out to me that this corresponds to 65 asylum seekers per month, and it is then 830-840 family reunifications per year we will, already because we have in time and we can and we know well and I'd like to discuss it when we know the German bill • exactly with which cadence we potentially get family reunification applications to Denmark. And as I see it, it can happen with respect for a Danish translation of a German ceiling, even if we have not formally formulated it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134347	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134349	I fully share the view that the Germans have let things go, and that this with wir schaffen das and with the chancellor who opens up Germany etc. has caused incredibly great problems in Germany, which is also derived from the rest of us, because it is with Germany as a transit country that many then came to Denmark. Some went on to Sweden, we remember, on the Danish motorways etc., while some stayed hanging in Denmark. When we talk about a ceiling, it is of course in order to also exercise due care and ensure that if there is a similar situation at a time when things are getting out of control, then we must have the tools in the drawer that make us manage things. And it is clear that if the Germans legally find a way through to create a ceiling, as the Prime Minister rightly says, of 12,000 per year, 1,000 per month, which corresponds to Danish conditions will then come down below 70 people, 65-67 persons, per month, then we should also be inspired by it. It may well be that we cannot legally clarify it now, but can I at least get the Prime Minister to acknowledge that then the government must take the initiative for political negotiations between the parties of the Folketing on how to find a way through that will ensure that we are inspired by what the Germans are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134503	Two things. A German ceiling will have no significance in Denmark on what could be called the short track, because we know exactly how many people in Denmark have received subsidiary protection status and thus after 3 years have the opportunity to seek family reunification, and we have managed the figures. If we had had an asylum application procedure similar to the German one, we should have received over 100 000 in the years I mentioned before. We've received about 30,000. So that's under control. So a German ceiling will not affect us, and I would say that even without a ceiling we will not hit it because, unlike our neighbouring Germany and Sweden, we acted in time. Then I admit that there can be a derived effect, because it is clear that if Germany creates a system in which you cannot have family reunification at all, it will of course contribute to the fact that for new asylum seekers it is not an attractive country and create a risk that you will then walk through Germany if someone moves to Denmark. That is not something that can happen tomorrow, but it is something that could happen in the long term, and of course we will have to deal with that. Therefore, I would like to give the undertaking that when we know the German proposal, and it may be within a few days, we would very much like to have a discussion with the Danish People's Party on how we deal with this, so that we can ensure that we keep things under control. But let us welcome the fact that we are not in a panic situation like some other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134639	It is clear that something has happened in this area over the last few years. We have tightened a large number of rules, and that is how it is and it is reasonably clear that if you relax the rules, there will be more, and if you tighten the rules, there will be fewer. Of course, this must also be seen in relation to other countries. So if the Germans tighten without Denmark tightening, then everything else will just come more to Denmark. That is why we have to see the Danish People's Party when the Germans are in the process of introducing it here, perhaps to a degree of panic for Germany because of all the atrocities that politicians in Germany have put their people at least to put us in the tail of it and to implement the same degree of rigour, one can say, as the Germans. At least. I would like to acknowledge positively that the Prime Minister recognizes that logic and, on that basis too, will initiate discussions and negotiations so that we can then find the right way to secure that very thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134740	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134743	Thank you. It does not, of course, give rise to much more than perhaps once again emphasising the proportions. Basically, I feel that we must respect the Supreme Court's rulings and we must respect our international obligations. I think it suits a small country to stand guard over it. I am very, very excited to see a German legal argument that what you can read from the Supreme Court's premises is an individual right, in Germany apparently is not an individual right. Studying will be very exciting. I am therefore delighted that Denmark does not need to search the borders with the figures we know, and perhaps cross them, because we have actually handled this with due care. There are 240,000 of this category of refugees in Germany who, because it is said that they have let too many people in and suspended some rights, contrary to what we have done in Denmark, namely to keep the figure low and increase the deadline by 3 years, suddenly have a collective legal requirement, unless you do something. This kind of panic is not in Denmark. And if we do not need a legal ceiling because our figures are already such that we would not hit it even if we did, then I think we should not. But let us take that discussion and that discussion when we have the German proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134917	Thank you. The question is closed. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508134923	I would like us to return a little bit back to 2015, when a big car scandal actually rolled out all over the world. I am sure the Prime Minister will remember this, since I remind him of it, namely that Volkswagen was caught cheating. They simply made cheating software as it was called " making cars seem more environmentally friendly when they were tested in the laboratories so that the charges would be lower. It was initially NO x and other car manufacturers were later revealed. It was a worldwide scandal. When car manufacturers act in this way, it harms the environment because we have cars on the roads that emit more than they should. It is damaging to the treasury and the well-being of the people because there are no taxes that should be introduced. And then it hurts consumers who think every day that they drive around in a car that swallows less petrol than it actually does, and therefore it harms the money purse in everyday life. What happened here was that one of the world's largest car manufacturers had hired highly paid engineers to cheat and cheat systematically. At the same time, there have been problems with the tests. In a recent report in the European Parliament, it was believed that there was a loss in Denmark for the Danish Treasury of 24 billion. kr. And that was in 2016 alone at 6.2 billion. kr. For that money, we could lower taxes on electric cars. We could also make public transport prices 30%. cheaper. We could spend that money on a lot of things. What is interesting, I think, is that when Enhedslisten then follows that case, the tax minister basically answers that it doesn't matter that that money hasn't entered the Danish Treasury, because the government also thinks that the tax on cars should be lower. My question to the Prime Minister is of course: is this an expression of the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135146	It is so unfortunate that I missed the last word, because I listened so carefully to everything that was said and thought: how does this tram scandal, which the government has certainly had no influence on, turn right back to me? And so it did with that conclusion that you could hardly hear. That is something to say: I do not know if we can use the word'suckle' in the Chamber, and if we are not allowed to do so, I have not done so. But what we have been exposed to here can only be strongly opposed to. We've got the money we've got, and that's the way it is. I think, without knowing all the details of this, that these new limit values will actually mean that we will have more forward-looking than what we have taken into account. Well, there's some kind of impact on the future that these limit values are going to be put in line with the truth, and I'm not going to make myself an expert on what's going to happen. But I can't conjure up any money that hasn't been taken out. I can't. I can say that the government has had a wish that it should be cheaper to be a car owner. That is why we have reduced registration tax three times in a row. And the answer is still fluttering in the wind, as to whether social democracy has a plan to roll it back if you should have government responsibility. In this way, we want to be a car-friendly party. Nor do we share Enhedslisten's department in Copenhagen's view that a resident license should cost 10,000 DKK. after tax, because we think it is good that you can get the green to go hand in hand with individual transport as well. That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135321	Here you go, Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135324	But with all due respect, this case is not about what the Social Democrats intend to do after an election, or what the Enhedslisten's local department in Copenhagen means by the way. It is about car manufacturers who have cheated systematically and how the government intends to react to it. What has emerged is that there is a shortage of 24 billion. kr. in the state treasury, and the government does not intend to respond to that, apparently because there is a desire for car taxes to be reduced. After all, you could look backwards at how much of it is cheating and whether you can pursue car manufacturers with lawsuit. This could be investigated, and rules could also be put forward in the future that would actually remedy the problems. But that's another matter. What I am basically asking is something very, very fundamental. Because the tax minister says in a reply to the Danish Parliament that he doesn't actually have a desire to get this money pulled in. He does not think this is necessary because he believes that car owners pay too much in tax. And that's where I'm gonna have to ask if that's what we can expect from the government. Can we expect that when the government does not like legislation but has not obtained a majority in the Folketing to change it, one will just ignore it when it is broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135448	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135450	I'm not at all sure that my small capacity up here mentally has the span enough to fully understand the reasoning. In other words, to the extent that some have been cheated, it is some car owners who have bought cars that do not meet the technical standards proposed by the manufacturer and which have probably also been used as a basis for the current car tax, which is why they have paid less than they really should. I think that you will get yourself into something terrible if you like to turn to car owners who, in good faith, have bought a car, with some theoretical possibility of collecting some money which they have paid too little, because they have bought in confidence in the market some cars that do not meet some technical standards, and with some theoretical possibility that you might then be able to settle in relation to a car manufacturer. I mean, I think it's closed country, and that's why it doesn't make any sense to pursue that trail. What is crucial is that, as far as the future is concerned, people must, of course, pay the taxes they have to pay in relation to the standards that the cars actually meet. And if it moves something about some forward-looking profit calculators, and it may well do that, it will probably be with arrows up, because the cars turned out not to be quite as green as the consumer hoped and thought... then you have to deal with how to bring that money into play. And that is where the government will be open to further lowering the car tax. Well, we kind of think it's fine with cheap cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135626	It's almost fascinating. Well, nobody here has suggested that we go after the car owners. For they have just been cheated; they have just bought some cars that are not as green as they thought, or at least are fucking more than they thought. So, of course, no one is suggesting it. Summa summarum is missing 24 billion. kr. We haven't heard the PM undermine the report. By the way, we have not heard the tax minister do that either. We're missing 24 billion. kr. in the Danish Treasury, money which should have been there and which could have been used, yes, for that matter to reduce taxes, if you have the opinion that you want to. Green transport, public transport, could also have been made cheaper. You could have done a lot of things. What is my question is: when the tax minister explains a lack of response to the wish to reduce car taxes, that is what the government says: we want to lower the top tax, we cannot get a majority for that in the Folketing, so we ignore people who evade top tax. Or: We would like to raise the speed limits, we cannot get a majority for that in the Folketing, so we ignore when people drive too fast. Well, what kind of ministerial administration is that? You have to react when the rules are broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135744	Yes, and I think the world community has done so at relevant levels. This applies to the United States, to Europe. There are no car manufacturers in Denmark. There are no car manufacturers who are directly related to the Treasury. That's what the car owners do. Then you can have all sorts of calculations. I haven't read them till today. I would then like to find room to do so if Mrs Pernille Skipper can certainly see through that, even if consumers had known that the car they bought, which they thought could be given, could not do so, they would have bought it anyway. It could be that if you had had the right technical standards, you would have said as a citizen: then I would not buy that car, then I would buy another car. Maybe I won't buy a car. If you hadn't bought a car, we wouldn't have gotten anything into the treasury. So in some way it will be something in retrospect, and we cannot take that at all as an indication that we look at it lightly. But those who pay to the Treasury are the car owners. I just have to say that it will be a closed country to pursue that trail. The government has respect for the Folketing, so if Mrs Pernille Skipper can gather a majority in the Assembly Hall for the government to take some direct unilateral action against Volkswagen to demand some money back, then we will of course blindly follow the direction of a majority in the Folketing. We're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135914	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508135923	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to the new ministers of the team. It looks good, I think. There are a few of them present today, two of them. Congratulations on the new jobs. In relation to the preliminary remarks made by the Prime Minister, it is entirely gratifying from the point of view of the Alternative that everyone right now will be as green as one can possibly be. Usually you talk about the race to the bottom, but now we're talking about race to the top. The more green we can get, the better it is. Whether it is the Social Democracy that comes out with an ambitious climate project, or it is Pernille Skipper who says that the next election will be a climate choice, we can only cheer on it from the Alternative • that there will be reports from the government party, all the way down to changing the logo color on the logo. We're happy. The greener the better. What I am going to do now is to change my normal dynamics in the questions, because I would like to ask the question first and then explain why I am asking the question. Because as Prime Minister, you sit there and think where this ends and try desperately to find out where we're going. My first question to the Prime Minister is actually: what are the crucial issues that are at stake at the moment in relation to the whole debate on freedom, that is, the debate that has been going on over the last few decades? What are the crucial questions? The reason why I am asking the question is that in the good debate we had on the state of democracy a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that he has also changed his attitude on the whole issue of freedom over the last 10-15 years. That is one reason why I am asking the question in order to clarify it. The second is that we from the Alternative have just come out with a big paper called "The next Denmark', where we want to extend the concept of freedom, so that it is not as narrow as it is today, where in our optics it is about growth and consumption, but so it is also freedom to nature, community and meaningful life and equal opportunities etc. That must be my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140138	There will be a lot of good questions today, all of which would be a theme debate or an evening debate or a firefighter or a question debate worthy of consideration, and this is also one of them. Because there is now 1 minute and 48 seconds. For me, it's both the freedom to do something and the freedom to be free of something. There are a lot of challenges in this society, where it's about ensuring that the individual can be free from oppression, free from abuse. But there is also an agenda that is about having the freedom to do something. At some abstract level, I fully agree that it is the freedom to do many things. It is not just the freedom of material things. It is also the freedom to live your life as you wish. It has a lot of dimensions. Perhaps, therefore, if I should try to sum it up so quickly, I think that some of what I see as a very central issue is about opportunities. There are too many children and young people who, despite the fact that we live in an internationally fantastically unique society with a high level of prosperity, are left with insufficient opportunities because they do not get the good start in life, do not get the learning to have in primary school, or grow up in an environment characterized by some fantasy that religious dogmas are above worldly. For the prerequisite for freedom is, of course, that you have the prerequisites for being able to live it out. It's something that worries me a lot. It also worries me a great deal that the freedom we have, as it were, and also that we are free from poverty and free from many worries that were left for generations, sit with some young people, I see, in some restlessness. We are seeing more and more mentally vulnerable young people. I can't stand here breaking the code card. But it is certainly a theme that I think Denmark needs a conversation with itself about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140339	In fact, I think that was an impressive answer, given the short time available. It is quite true that it could be a theme in itself for a question debate. It is, after all, the dilemma that is constantly stretched between that of individual freedom and inviolability and the binding community. Perhaps some of those things are also at stake in the next question, because the Institute for Human Rights has come out with their annual analysis of Danes' freedoms. Here they conclude: more bans, less freedom. Some of the bans that they are looking at, of course, are everything from residence bans, zone bans and camp bans to cover bans, etc. etc. So the institute says that what is happening right now is that we are facing more bans and less freedom. My question to the Prime Minister is: where does the Prime Minister see his own pain limit, in relation to how much we should ban and how we should define the freedom space? Where's the pain limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140446	I think that was the discussion we had last hints about how I myself have moved. I would not have seen myself in politics a generation ago as an advocate of saying, under certain circumstances, that your child should, for that I think basically, the parents should decide. Once I've moved there, it's because I can see that there are pockets in our society where there are children left without the opportunities I talked about before. Then it becomes some sort of balance between a freedom for some parents to opt out of some things or choose some things and some children's opportunities to get a good start in life. That's why I don't buy in on it either. So, with full respect for the Institute for Human Rights, I think it is too one-dimensional, because it is also about other things. It's about when, for example, we get there. Now the lowest number of Danes on public support we have had for more than 10 years has seriously broken the basket on how many people are on cash benefits, so every day more people have got to have something to stand up for in the morning and could be a proper reflection for their children, so it also helps to promote opportunities that were not there before. So I think that freedom and opportunities and freedom to something and freedom from something, for example. being free from violence, being free from sexual abuse, being free from being intimidated, which may come from the fact that some others have been banned in one way or another must also be dragged in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140623	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140624	Well, there is no doubt that the alternative looks a little different to the Prime Minister. We see that there is massive pressure on freedoms at the moment. On the other hand, of course, I recognise that the whole debate on freedom must be put into context, and that is why I would like us to have a broader discussion about it and that chance will be given to us. Here comes the last question, and it is always from the members of the Alternative. They also ask the Prime Minister a fairly serious question, because they ask: where does the Prime Minister see the greatest health challenges in the coming years? Is it due to a large increase in the number of admissions to psychiatric wards, an increase in the number of elderly people or an increase in the number of patients with multiple concurrent diseases, or is it the very high cost of expensive medicine? So what are the major health challenges? It's a little unfair, but...
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140727	These are small, simple and uncomplicated questions, and fortunately the clock has not started counting yet. Well, I guess it will eventually. There's a lot of things here. I mentioned it with the mentally vulnerable young people before, it worries me. I do not think this is just a challenge for the health service; it is about much more than that. If I were among many good candidates to point out one thing, I think the biggest challenge is to finish what we started in 2001, where we had a health service that was in rags and where people had lost confidence. And now we have lifted it with super-sickhouses, a higher degree of specialised treatment, much better survival rates, cancer packages, people coming in from abroad to look at it most recently a Swedish think tank that has said that we have the third best European health care. It's really, really good. But what is the challenge now is the next step. This is to make what is happening on the highest specialised units connected with what is happening near where citizens live: out in home care, out in home care, out in general care, out in general medical practice. I still have the impression that even if people get a super treatment in hospitals and are ready to move away from the good quality, as I actually predicted at the time, there is something in the tradition that lags behind. And it's all about prevention, rehabilitation, getting out and living your own life afterwards. So the thing about building a bridge between what is going on at the highest specialized level of our health care and what is going on very close to where Mrs Jensen and Mr Jensen are concerned. Sørensen lives, I think is the biggest such political challenge. That is also the reason why the Minister for Health, even today, has thought of some kind of proximity funding in order to make municipalities and regions really go into that room and build a better bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140921	Thank you. That concludes the question. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508140932	Thank you. We are also looking forward to negotiating an energy agreement. I understand from the PM that now it's urgent. It may not have been so urgent for the government to make the move, but that's fine, now it's there, and let's finally get started. I'd like to continue the discussion where the Prime Minister left Mr. Uffe Elbæk, on the subject of opportunities, because I think that is an important theme. I think it gives us all better opportunities when we meet each other crosswise, when we live together, grow up together, share the society we share. And what I really think is the dividing line in the discussion we have had since the Prime Minister's New Year's speech is: who does not believe it? Well, who's the opponent? My experience after spending days and nights around exposed residential areas is that there are a lot of people who feel that they live in the areas that some call holes in the Danish map. They're not, they're very eager for it. That is why I am glad that some of the negotiations we are taking part in are moving forward so that we can hopefully get things moving soon, for example. to create more attractive residential areas where more people want to live together. But I also think the government is bypassing the hot porridge. In other words, if you think only of telling the recipients of cash benefits where they are not allowed to live, then that does not provide any more opportunities. It takes opportunities from people. If you want to tell six-year-old children that they are not allowed to go on in first grade with their comrades, then that is not giving them any more opportunities. Then it's taking them out of the community. However, the large area that remains, which the government does not have a bid for, is of course what concerns a great many people, both those who live in vulnerable residential areas and those who do not. This is how we get mixed schools again so that the primary school is not chosen from the same extent as it is today. So how do we find the courage to bring about real change in one of the areas that really matter where there really are problems, namely so that our children grow up and go to school together? The government, in its playout, has no bid for that. This is not a debate, and my question to the Prime Minister is: if it is important that we meet each other, why not have mixed schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141148	Thank you. I mean, I've never been concerned about whether some people think it's a problem that we have parallel societies or whether everyone agrees that we shouldn't have it. It is only good if everyone agrees that there are some issues that need to be resolved. I have, of course, been concerned that we are going to do something about it, and that is why I was very hard to address the problems we have not addressed by cutting everyone together. I have never done it, I fully acknowledge the individual in itself, and many people do it well. But there are some problems when too many people are squeezed together • people who are socially challenged by too low an average level of education, too low a participation in the labour market, too high a level of crime and other indicators. And we have to do something about that. I completely disagree with that, for example. To do a language test after 0th grade, people take away opportunities. It offers opportunities. For what kind of opportunity is it given to a young boy or girl to let them start in the Danish primary school if they do not have the basic prerequisites for a good course, so that they 9 years later leave the primary school with insufficient skills so that they cannot enter a vocational school or go to high school or get an apprenticeship? That's branding them from the start. Somebody's got to take that responsibility and shake this up. That is my approach to it. That is why we have proposed the things we have proposed with kindergartens in these areas; that is why we have proposed this language test here; and that is why we have proposed it with the high schools which I understand are only progressing a little slowly because it is the state's own institutions. As far as the municipalities are concerned, there is another degree of freedom that I am in favour of, and that is municipal autonomy. I want schools and municipalities to be kept up to decide whether they are providing proper education, whether they are getting these children through properly. And if an instrument for it in the individual school on the municipality's own premises is a different distribution of pupils, you have to make a different distribution of pupils. We should not be dictating it, I think, from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141359	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141400	That's fascinating. Well, you'd like to dictate that there must be tests in the kindergarten class, even if no one in the primary school wants to. However, we do not want to go in and do what reality calls for: to tackle the real problem of our primary school becoming more and more divided; to what both parents are concerned about whose children are bilingual, because they want them to go to a school where the majority are not bilingual; and to worry those who have chosen the primary school from, because they did not want their children to go to a school which was completely or almost dominated by children who had two-language backgrounds and the same linguistic challenges. It is Baroque that what you can find out at Christiansborg is the detailed management of teachers' work and mistrust of school leaders' efforts, while addressing what is obviously a structural challenge: ensuring that our children go to school together; the call from reality to tackle the real problem; you do not have the courage to do so. I'm just asking, why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141502	I think it is a terrible time to confuse objectives and means. In other words, we require schools to lift children, so that each child both goes out of primary school as curiously as one met in the first day of the tornist on his back, and builds up the professional skills needed to move on in life. This is what is central from Christiansborg, as a claim to the Danish primary school. That's where we take the side of the individual child. That is why we say: you have to make sure that the children are language ready to start first class, and if they are not, you have to make them language ready by offering them an offer during the summer holiday for some intensive learning or other. It's taking care of the individual child. Sitting at Christiansborg and deciding exactly how many students of what ethnic origin there may be at some school in some given district in Denmark is retail management. I've seen schools, among other things. in Aarhus, which reflects the local area, for if there are many people with different ethnic backgrounds from Danish, then there are many with different ethnic backgrounds from Danish in the school district who are able to take the students forward. And if they are able to pass the students on to something that is entirely an Aarhus average in terms of educational readiness and grades, then that is no problem. Then there may be another place where you are unable to do so, and then there is a problem. And then we must press the school to deliver the solution without dictating exactly what to do. That is how I feel as a liberal and as a supporter of local self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141641	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141643	That answer, too, is a cover-up for the lack of courage of the government and the Prime Minister in this area. There is no problem in thinking that there should be a certain percentage in the day institutions. That's what you have a game about. There is no problem in discussing mixed high schools; it has held a little hard, and I do not think the Minister for Education necessarily cares so much about it, but it is now under negotiation. But schools are what people are really concerned about, those parents whose children are bilingual. And it has nothing to do with their ethnic background; it has something to do with whether you meet Danish for the first time when you get out of your home. That is, in fact, what is at the heart of the matter, and it may well have been overcome in the second or third generation. And the problem that concerns parents in vulnerable residential areas, that is, there are parents who have opted out of primary school because they do not think it reflects the society in which they live, one does not want to take care of, but one wants to inflate itself to say that one does not want to run the municipalities in detail. With everything that has been put forward here, I think the municipalities have a different view of it. At any rate, I can say that parents who are bilingual are not being made a service by not working for mixed schools. That is why the last question to the Prime Minister will also be: Does the Prime Minister and the Government disagree that it would be good if our children went to school together across the board? Isn't that a goal for the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141811	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508141811-2	However, I do not think I can compete with radical courage, which is unfolding in many ways, most recently in collective bargaining, where the radical leader appointed himself as very brave by saying that the decisions he had made were wrong, and they should not have been taken. It is a special degree of courage for a politician to admit mistakes, although it was perhaps at the most opportunistic time in Danish history to reach that level of opposition. So I can't compete on that point. I can say that when we think of day-care institutions as we do, it is because our proposals directly affect things. In other words, when we have a proposal to require parents in certain areas to send their children to day care institutions, we have a proposal that affects a problem, and then we have an obligation to deal with it. That is why we believe what we are doing about day care institutions. In the field of high school, the high schools are anchored with the state. It's the state that's the manager, and we have a responsibility. The Folkeskole is run by the municipalities. That is also why the best thing would be for the municipalities to negotiate the teachers' working time agreement, and not previous governments by decree-law. It's happening out there. And yes, I share the view that it would be good to have a primary school that was spacious in all dimensions. It is a municipal responsibility and it looks different in different municipalities. A dictated percentage by Christiansborg would go through differently in different municipalities because the municipalities and the residential areas are different. However, the municipalities must be held firm. So we have to hope that there are some brave radical municipal politicians and other municipal politicians who are taking care of this. I want to press the school to deliver the result, namely to lift the children so that they have some opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142001	Thank you. That concludes Question Time. Sorry, no, it's not at all. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. It is just before I feel like giving extra speaking time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142015	It's okay. One of the great victories in politics is when one's political counterpart is well enough after some neglected years, yet • begins to present one's political visions with the same glow and even makes them his own. This is something to be welcomed, and I am, of course, talking about the strenuous efforts of the Left to relaunch itself as Denmark's green party. It is indeed a sinner who tries to repent. For the Left has innumerable times cut in the climate effort • sometimes successfully, other times we have succeeded in preventing it • but the hope is bright green. Reverse sinners tend to become the most faithful. We know that from people who have previously smoked, who become non-smokers. It's almost hard to be with them. I therefore really hope to see it in the hands of the Left in the coming months, when we can probably agree on both an ambitious and broad political agreement in the field of energy and climate. After all, we have started negotiations so little, but before we really get them started, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will the Prime Minister help to increase the level of ambition in the new energy agreement so that we can at least ensure that we have three offshore wind farms by 2030? Or does the Prime Minister think that one offshore wind farm is ambitious enough for a newly converted green party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142142	Thank you. Well, I know that feeling. I experienced it many times when we fought for free choice in the health sector, and some thought it was more important to combat private hospitals than waiting lists. It's really, really nice, and I'm glad that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr uses the word relaunchers launch Well, we're not launching, we're relaunching, and that means we've been there before, and it's true that we've thought that now we should just relaunch ourselves. For we have been there all along, green and adaptable and with a government responsibility for 13 out of 17 years, where Denmark, it can be said, has tripled the volume of sustainable energy. At the same time, we have tripled our green technology exports, and indeed we have had a share of responsibility for that. We have been involved in all energy agreements. We should not take credit for everything, but we should not write it off. So the question is, shouldn't we build four or five parks? We can also build six and then make them a little smaller each or ten which then is only a quarter of the size. This is, of course, a strange competition; we have to build what is necessary to achieve our objectives, and I can say with certainty that we are going to build more offshore wind energy than the one park we have specifically proposed. If you read our proposal and not just decided in advance that you would like to give it a populist interpretation, then you can see that this is the way it is. There is one specific park with a production corresponding to the population of the seven largest Danish cities, and there is a clear commitment that more needs to be built. Exactly where and how to decide when we get a little further forward. Because it has to reflect the development of technology. That is also why we are starting to screen Danish waters for 10 GW, which, if I do not remember quite wrongly, corresponds to the power that can supply about 100 million people. There are 5.8 million people living in Denmark, and that's because we want to do this. But it is not necessarily wise policy to sit in 2018 and detail plan what steps need to be taken. The crucial point is: do you have the ambition to take them, and have the resources been set aside for that? We already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142359	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142400	Now I have actually done the little thing to try to read the government's presentations. It should not really surprise the Prime Minister, since I myself am negotiating over at the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate.I note that the only thing that has been proposed is the adoption of one offshore wind farm in the period 2024-2027, and that consideration should be given to planning two more, possibly by 2030. The point is just and it is not a competition for figures, i.e. whether it is ten, eight or seven, because there I actually think the Prime Minister is ridiculing a profession that is so important to Denmark that we have to get up on those approx. 2,400-3,000 MW when we talk about this, and that we're behind. I noted that the Prime Minister said on the day he launched it: we are building the world's largest offshore wind farm. Well, the British are building one of 1,200 MW, and what you're talking about in your government paper is 800 MW. So we're always behind. I would like us to be at the forefront, because we know that it creates jobs in Denmark; we know that it means that the rest of the world is looking to Denmark. So why not, now that you're new green, jump into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142511	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142513	Well, I don't know if there's anything very green about standing around and talking black like you do here. Well, I don't understand. Listen to this: the green is in what we have and whether we have the will to achieve it. It is my government that has set the goal that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. It is my government that has set the very ambitious goal that by 2030 half of the total Danish energy consumption will come from sustainable energy. That is a great ambition and we have the will to achieve it. Then I understand that this will must be questioned because we have not put forward any concrete proposals as to whether we should make an offshore wind farm in 2025, 2027 or 2028 precisely on it and the cadastral or other cadastral; whether it should be 600 MW, 800 MW or 1,200 MW. When we have not done so, but have made sure that the money has been dropped off, and committed ourselves to making concrete decisions in 2022 and, incidentally, now screening for 10 GW offshore winds, then it is because we want to seize the benefits of the technology advances that are in the intervening period. That doesn't make us any less green, it might make us a little smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142629	Let's do the last round. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142631	I'm gonna be so happy because we're always in a round where the PM gets a little bit angry. We did so again. But never mind, I'm a very surplus human being, so I live with that. But the point is that the government has put it forward by 50%. VE in 2030. That is quite fine, but if you listen to the Climate Council, they recommend 55%, and if you look at the expansion we have made so far, we could actually talk 60%. So somehow I would say that 50%. I hope that the Prime Minister will do something more. If we look to Norway, because there is actually a government that reminds us of the Danish government, but with the Danish People's Party's sister party also in government, namely the Progress Party, then they have much more ambitions. They propose, among other things: cars free of fossil fuels. After 2025, diesel and petrol vehicles may not be newly purchased. Isn't that where you might be able to look a little to get some inspiration for the next step? Because I hope and am very excited that the Left is starting to jump into the green shirt. I just want it to turn really green and not withered green.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142743	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142744	Well, I'm delighted when Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr gets excited. I am sorry that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr continues to translate my commitment into being angry, so I am not mad at all. I am concerned that we are proposing something that works and that we hold it against what others have proposed before us. What was the objective of the previous government, in which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr herself participated, precisely in terms of renewable targets by 2030? How much untouched forest was laid under the previous government? Bobbob. How much money was set aside to introduce electric cars just beyond the election date? Bobbob. That's just what I'm dealing with. And then I say that we have objectives that are quite ambitious, and we also have the means to achieve them. If the Socialist People's Party will then enter into the negotiations with an ambition that 50 per cent. It's not enough, and it has to be called something else, so you have to go in with it. Then we must also go in and show where the resources are to come from, because now we have jointly taken responsibility for abolishing the PSO, putting it all into the Finance Act, and that is why a new offshore windmill is in direct competition with a kindergarten or a hospital bed or a cycle path or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508142903	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to the party leaders. The question is over. We are just waiting for a minute of money before we start the vote, so we are sure that everyone has arrived in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143005	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143025	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in Copenhagen's Grand District, Martin Geertsen, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 4 May 2018, after Søren Pind resigned on 3 May 2018. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143048	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 102 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143135	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 12 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143205	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143224	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143251	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143308	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143332	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143349	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143424	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143443	Denmark has a new Minister for the Environment and Food, and I personally am very pleased about this and would like to welcome the new Minister. The Minister has even promised that there will be a new direction too, so I will quote the Minister from up here, and I apologise to the President for using direct speech, but when it is a quote it will do. The minister says: "You will probably see a new minister who puts the environment first and food after. And he continues: "Now I take over the post here in the Ministry of the Environment and Food - in that order. So we're a lot of people looking forward to seeing a new and adjusted environmental policy from the government with Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as new Minister for the Environment and Food. Today we have four sets of legislation on the wallpaper, which are very large legislative complexes, and in fact we have the opportunity, as a minister, to lay down this new direction. The bill we are discussing right now is about more nitrogen for marine farming. We know from our environmental studies that if you take the whole Kattegat, it's pretty much red, because there's so much nitrogen and the risk of oxygen loss in these marine waters, and yet the government wants to do so because you've made a calculation on the desk... now give more nitrogen to marine farms. It would have been a good place to see the new Minister for the Environment change the order and put the environment before food in this context. Just before we voted on signs in the open country. We've tried to say that it's okay with some of these little signs for a flea market or a small café or a farm shop, but the big signs out in the open country, which can give us such little memories of the Swedish landscape, maybe we shouldn't have. I did not see that adjusted when we voted through the previous draft law just before. In a few moments, the proposal for coastal protection will come, taking out the conservation boards, removing the right of complaint from citizens and neighbours, if the project is a private project, but not if it is a municipal project. There it could be nice and it is then only another treatment to see a minister adjust a course that puts the environment at the forefront and ensures that we have a coherent coast protection in Denmark. Not least, the very important proposal for targeted regulation will shortly come. It would be so nice if the Minister would let in more parties. It would be good for agriculture, it would be good for the environment in the agreement on targeted regulation. And there is still an opportunity, as a minister, that you are allowed to sit in the chair to do something here. So, Minister, it may be difficult to reach the third readings today, but there are a few second readings where action can be put behind the fine green words, and we will look forward to that very much from the radical side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143729	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143736	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143805	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143823	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143841	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508143904	Thank you. I would also like to welcome the new minister. There is no more than a small year's time for parliamentary elections and we hope that the Prime Minister's choice of new minister will also signal a new policy in the field of the environment and food. In relation to the bill we are working on here, we in the SF think we should think very carefully about it. For it is at first sight an attempt to simplify some procedures... an intention that we in this way share... but it greatly limits citizens' legal certainty. If you adopt the bill as it stands here, well over 90 per cent. In the future, coastal protection permits could only be challenged in relation to law, i.e. procedural shortcomings, whether the project is in breach of EU legislation, etc. Maybe 95 percent. There will be no complaints of all cases in the future, and that means that the assessments of what the permit means for my property, for protected nature, etc., cannot be appealed. This puts both citizens and organisations and nature at a disadvantage. Agriculture & Food, the Free Air Council and the National Association of Recreational Homes also point to the need for full review. I wonder if there will be a lot of complaints in the future, and I wonder if with this law we will create a huge frustration in many places along the coasts. For whom should people complain about a coastline, such as: Is it preventing free access to our coasts, or a coastguard that is desecrating the coasts? Another point of contention here is that the predecessor of the Minister for the Environment and Food has not been able to demonstrate that parallel treatment in the conservation boards will delay the proceedings. We therefore believe that there is a good reason to maintain the competences of the Conservation Board in matters of coastal protection. So faster and smoother processing is a fine objective, but it should not be at the expense of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144113	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144116	Thank you. It is nice to welcome the new minister, I understand the need for that, but I have to address just one thing. It sounds a little like it's supposed to be set up to wild west in this area. That is by no means the case. If a citizen wants to look after his property, that is a good thing, but would the rapporteur not just confirm that if a citizen wants to make a coastal protection measure, the citizen must, of course, have approved it from the municipality, which the citizen wants to have done. You can't just go out there and do that. So will the rapporteur confirm that we must, of course, have approved what we want to do? It's not like it's just wild west.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144153	That is quite correct, but there is no remedy for the content of the project. This means that it may well be that the interests of the citizen who wants to have coastal protection are safeguarded, but all the other citizens who are affected by it, or nature organisations, etc., do not have the same opportunity for full review in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144212	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144214	If what we call the major joint joint projects, which I am also sure the rapporteur is fully aware of, is being put to the test. I think we can agree entirely on that. The other, can we say, individual projects on which we are currently agreed, and I am glad to hear that confirmation, must then be approved, but can we not also agree that this is comparable to a lot of other situations? If a citizen is going to apply to build a building or various other things, then it is exactly the same way that he has to deal with these things, so this is a question of equality here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144254	Talking about equality, I think maybe it's just as tough as it is. I mean, it's the vast majority of things that can't be completely tested. I find it very strange that there is discrimination between private projects and joint projects where there are two different types of redress and that very few of the projects are really joint projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144318	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144327	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection approved Amendment No 2 by a majority (with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative). 3 or on Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 4 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 4 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4, elected by a majority (the They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144420	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144437	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 S (by mistake), abstentions 33 (S and RV). Amendment No. 2 is rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 7, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 S (by mistake), abstention 29 (S and RV). Amendment No. 3 is rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. Nine, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 6, 10 and 11, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 S (by mistake), abstentions 33 (S and RV). Amendment No. 4 are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 and 12 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144640	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144653	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144710	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144725	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144740	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144757	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144818	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144839	Thank you. From the SF we want it back in committee. Four answers have been received today and it is a little late to ensure proper treatment, and I understand that the Minister is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144858	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144903	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go back to committee between the second and third readings. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144924	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508144949	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145008	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (DF, RV, LA and KF)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. in favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 5 has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145051	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145106	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end when the last one has voted, and that is now. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145207	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145232	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145247	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145310	We are going to get started, and that is why I would ask that those who only have to talk do so outside the Parliamentary Chamber. The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145345	How should Denmark manage that more and more people who have grown up in other countries want to settle in Denmark? That is basically the issue that we in the Parliamentary Assembly are discussing in over 100 different versions through each and every parliamentary assembly. Today, we have to consider whether students, foreign workers and EU citizens who come to our country have to pay part of their voluntary Danish education themselves. A module on these special Danish courses, where teachers have the best educational background, costs approx. 16,000 kroner. The government suggests that the participants should pay the 2,000 DKK. That will give about 150 million. kr. in the state treasury each year, partly directly from the participation fee, partly because the government considers that it will get fewer people to complete the courses. Refugees and family members are obliged to follow the integration programme and will continue to receive Danish education fully paid by the state. We have discussed the proposal back and forth in the Social Democratic Party. On the one hand, we want as many as possible to learn Danish, on the other hand, we think it is reasonable that foreign students and people who come here to work help themselves to pay some of their Danish lessons. However, we have ended up supporting the bill, and it is above all because we believe that it can increase the willingness of foreigners to attend and follow the teaching. If we as Danes settled in Greece, I also think that most of us would be grateful that the Greek state paid almost 90%. of language teaching in Greek. Finally, we must remember that thousands of Danes take training alongside their work, for which they pay even very high amounts. We therefore believe that the proposed legislative proposal is reasonable. The main concern of the social democracy is the expected decline in activity. We therefore want to follow this very closely, both the extent of the activity, but also which groups of students opt out of Danish education if they are chosen from. In addition, we will also pay particular attention to whether this bill means extra administration for providers of Danish education, as pointed out by them in some of the consultation responses. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145557	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145602	Thank you. There is, of course, a consultation answer from the Education Association which, like it, tells how they have tried very hard to examine what the consequences of this bill can be. At the 11 language centres, they have been around asking students what they will do if this is adopted. 80% of students plan to stay in Denmark because they have a job because they are studying but only 30 per cent. is going to continue on Danish education if this bill goes through. And there I would just like to hear from the Socialists, now that we have had these concerns, which I understand, whether we are not concerned that this will really damage integration in the labour market, for example, where we want people who live in Denmark, who have a job that will live here for many years, perhaps for the rest of their lives, but who do not learn Danish and thus become poorly integrated in the long term. Is it really clever to the big discussion we often have that we should be better at ensuring the integration of people in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145717	I have also read the consultation answer from the Education Association, and there are also several other consultation answers that mention some of the same. I think it is difficult to make a precise assessment of how many people will opt out of Danish education on the basis of this bill. But I would say that if the study carried out by the Education Association ends up holding water, that is to say 70 per cent. If we want to drop Danish education, we have a problem. But I do not think it will have that significance either. I imagine myself in the situation that I myself went to another country and studied and was given the opportunity to take a Portuguese course, which cost $16,000, but I only had to pay $2,000, and I had plans to live in that country for the rest of my life. Would it really be the $2,000 that would make me not take that course in Portuguese? I think that would be the reality for some, but for a small minority, and certainly not 70 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145814	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145815	Thank you. Let us say, then, that it will not be 70 per cent who opts out, but only 50 per cent who opt out, so it is quite a lot. And the reality is that for quite a few of these people it is not certain that they have sat down and made themselves clear that they 100 per cent. They will probably stay in Denmark in the future, but they have a job now, they are happy, and then life develops, and then they end up staying in Denmark, just as a lot of guest workers have done so in the history of Denmark, but it is only in a situation where they have not learned Danish. And there I'm just wondering if it's not shooting ourselves in the foot. Isn't it stupid not to get people taught proper Danish from the start, compare all the experiences we have with problems with integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145858	Yes, I think it is important that people learn Danish when they come to Denmark, but I really do not think that this is what we are discussing here, but more who should pay for it. And here I think it is reasonable that, like other adult Danes who are in employment, after the evening pay money to go to evening school or take a diploma, foreign workers who come to Denmark and want to learn Danish can also help pay just over 10%. the price of the education that we give them. I think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145933	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. We move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508145943	Thank you for the floor. The Danish Government and Dansk Folkeparti have agreed that a number of resident foreigners should be paid for Danish education, and this then requires a change in the law on Danish education. The bill proposes to introduce the participation fee for foreign workers and EU citizens, foreign students and also a number of other groups who are currently entitled to Danish education of DKr 2 000. per module. And of course the Danish People's Party can support this, and we would like to see more of it in the near future. Non-wage Danish education is maintained for refugees, for example, because they will continue to have the right to Danish education without self-payment once this proposal has been adopted. However, it should not be a secret that the Danish People's Party would have liked to see refugees also included in the participation fee, but that does not change the fact that we are drawing things in the right direction with this bill. The Danish society spends a lot of resources on the many immigrants who have arrived and who are constantly coming to Denmark, and therefore we have introduced profit principles in a number of areas, and we see today's proposals as a natural continuation of this important work. If people end up being permanent in Denmark there may be different reasons for that and then they need to learn the Danish language, then we think it is reasonable enough that we demand that they make an effort, and we also think it is reasonable enough that there is a certain element of participation pay for the teaching. With these comments, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150107	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150116	The bill here follows an agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, which among other things. The aim is to ensure lower taxes on labour income. Part of the funding for this agreement is to be found by introducing part of the participation fee on Danish education. The participation fee will in future apply to foreign workers and students, and the payment will therefore not affect vulnerable groups such as: refugees. Thus we can beat two flies with a spanking by both ensuring a better incentive to get to work and a more effective Danish education here in Denmark. The last point is based on the fact that, unfortunately, we sometimes see too much absenteeism for these Danish education programmes. There are people who simply do not show up and there are classrooms where there are more empty spaces than acceptable. Unfortunately, that's what you sometimes see. When we offer free courses, you don't take the course as seriously as if it's the case that you pay for part of the cost yourself and I stress that it's part of the cost. We believe that if you help to pay for yourself, the motivation for a course is much higher. Therefore, my expectation with this bill is that we will increase the rate of implementation of Danish education and we should also have dropped. Then there has been a concern that it would also affect Greenlanders and Faroese residents, and I have taken that concern very seriously. I have examined it very, very closely and have been told that the preparatory adult education, where you can also take Danish courses, remains free of charge. You can also be offered Danish education as part of the activation of your municipality, which will also remain free of charge. This means that this will not mean that, as a native Greenlander or a Faroese, you will always have to pay for your Danish education. For this reason, the Left supports the proposal and I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150339	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150342	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Left will be prepared to continue working on extending this to other groups, among others. refugees. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it would be good if refugees could hold onto their mother tongue because they have to be sent back to their home countries at some point. However, there is a broad majority in this House who believe that refugees should learn Danish. And Mr. Marcus Knuth himself said that if you pay for it yourself, you have an extra motivation to learn Danish. So on the basis of the arguments put forward by Mr. Marcus Knuth shows, one can then understand that the Left also believes that it should be unfolded to other groups, including refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150419	We share the objective of the Danish People's Party that refugees should return to their country of origin as soon as possible. And during the time they are in Denmark, we believe that they should strengthen their qualifications, including participation in the Danish labour market. So there is the Danish language a force for a refugee who may get a job in a slaughterhouse or a warehouse or a job with cleaning. And since many refugees come here with, let us say, weakened conditions, we believe that the Danish courses for refugees that are right now are appropriate so that we can ensure that as many people as possible enter the labour market are trained and are therefore even better equipped to go home and rebuild their country as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150504	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150506	But Mr. After all, Marcus Knuth himself said that there could be some sense in putting in some participatory payments. For those who then participate in the teaching are more obliged to follow the teaching and also learn what they are taught, i.e. in this case the Danish language. And if so, sir... Marcus Knuth believes that it is very important for refugees to learn the Danish language. Marcus Knuth's own words are a fantastic idea to ensure that the education in which refugees participate is also paid for, so that so-called refugees are also allowed to pay for the education in which they take part, as are these groups, foreign students, etc.? Isn't that a good idea, sir? Marcus Knuth?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150543-2	I can make it clear that we also believe that, unlike in the past, refugees must now enter the labour market as soon as possible. For the combination of Danish courses and being on the labour market is something, I think, which equips one to be able to do well enough Danish, hopefully within a short period of time, to be able to join the labour market. However, we believe that user charges for people who have just been granted refugee status and who may have very limited resources could run the risk of hindering access to the labour market, and that would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150619	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150621	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and also to the comments on Greenlanders in Denmark. I have two very brief questions: on the one hand, a question of principle and, on the other hand, a more specific question. First of all to the question of principle. This bill equates Greenlanders with foreigners. I would like to know whether it is the policy of the Left, also as a government-leading party, that Greenlanders are to be equated with foreigners. At any rate, we believe that this is a slippery slope from Inuit Ataqatigiits. The second more specific question is that we from Inuit Ataqatigiit would like to see more people coming into work, and here we believe that being able to the Danish language is an important prerequisite, and we believe that this bill unfortunately reduces access to Danish education. Does the Left really believe that this is a proposal they can support when it reduces access to more people to work? That is something that should actually be in the common interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150716-2	I do not believe that this proposal equates Greenlanders and forefathers with foreigners on the contrary. I have spent an incredible amount of time understanding what the situation is with regard to teaching for the few Greenlanders in Denmark who really need Danish education, and what is at the heart of me is that there is continuing to be, through the preparatory adult education or by activation to the Danish course through the municipality, 100 percent access to free language teaching for native Greenlanders and foremen. Greenlanders and forefathers are Danish citizens on an equal footing with everyone else in the community, regardless of whether you come from Nuuk, Bornholm or Lolland. So the most important thing is that we are all equal citizens, and the starting point for this bill will not change, nor will it change the fact that there are still free courses for native Greenlanders and forefathers where Danish education can be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150819	Thank you very much for your answer. We must hope that the rapporteur will also receive the full support of his own party. But when you look at the answers to the hearings, where everyone in this way disagrees with this, especially with Greenlanders, you have to see that the government writes in the commentary on the consultation table: "These groups" - that is, Greenlanders and Faroese people - are therefore represented with foreigners. So I think we are talking a little bit with two tongues on the left, and I do not quite understand what the position of the Left is actually on this issue, because I think it is a very fundamental matter that Greenlanders should not be treated as foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150856-2	Well, I think I have explained our position in my reply just now, but as I understand, there is also something legal about it in relation to the European Union, that is to say that it is not possible to discriminate. So what I have found is that the most important thing is that Faroese and Greenlanders still have access to free Danish education through all kinds of other possibilities, and there is the preparatory adult education a really, very good alternative. That's the key to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150933	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508150936	Thank you. I signed on because I was a little confused by the rapporteur's reply to Mr Seligman's question. Martin Henriksen just now, because either the position of the Left is that user charges are good, and then it should be spread in all parts of our education system and language teaching, or it is not good, and then what the government is proposing here is a saving exercise that could damage integration. So I would just like to hear a clear answer from the Left rapporteur: what is the Left's position on user charges? Is this a good thing, and if it is not, why is integration damaged by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151020	The reality is that we see that in some of these Danish courses there are empty seats, even though people have signed up for it, it is free, it costs nothing to stay away, and there we think that if you take part in some of these courses, and here I stress a lot of the payment, I think that the motivation to show up is somewhat greater. But there are certain groups that are vulnerable to others, for example. refugees who have just arrived, where we do not think it is the right way forward to charge, because here is the focus, that you have just come to Denmark, you have to get out into the labour market as soon as possible, so that you can be trained and get back home as soon as possible, as soon as there is peace and opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151103	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151105	Thank you. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur: on what does the rapporteur base the claim that more people will come to education if there is a user fee? What we have, after all, from a consultation answer from the Education Association is that only 30%. is going to show up where the Educational Association has been around and ask the students who are currently at 11 language centres. That is, to say the least, a relatively thorough study. So on what does the rapporteur base his claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151137	I am basing my claim on the fact that we can see that there are many who do not show up, and then on sound logic that if people have a part of the payment themselves, they probably have a little more interest in not just staying away at will and getting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151151	Then it's Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151153	Up to several times we have heard the rapporteur say how important it is for Greenlanders also to learn Danish and have access to Danish education, since it seems that the Danish community is a very important thing to safeguard. In this context, I am a little surprised to see that the rapporteur of the Left supports the proposal, which, in the end, according to the consultation response from the Council of Social Affairs Ministers, says that it will help to make the marginalised Greenlanders even more marginalised than they are today, since they are now about to pay for a six-module Danish education, which each citizen will ultimately have to pay DKK 12 000. too. When the Social Affairs Council makes such a statement, is it not the same as saying that the marginalised Greenlanders living in Denmark today will be even more marginalised when this bill is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151304	I think, frankly, that this is a bit of a distortion of the debate and that is not a very objective way of arguing. Now I also saw that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has been out in Greenland's media and has made some of the points that have just been made here. When the premise is that you, as a Greenlander or a Faroese, continue to have access to free Danish education through the preparatory adult education or e.g. Through activation in its municipality, this does not mean that you as a Greenlander or a Faroese have to pay, because there are available courses that are available free of charge courses. So to make a statement that all Greenlanders and Faroese who want a Danish course will have to pay in the future is simply not true. It smells a little more of populism and that one can now exhibit the Danish government as some who do not want to support the residents, especially vulnerable Greenlanders. There's nothing farther from the truth. I have spent a lot of time getting involved in this, because I would not be able to accept this bill myself if it meant that you would always have to pay for Danish education and you shouldn't do that through the preparatory adult education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151418	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151419	But now, if the bill is adopted, it will be that, firstly, we are regarded as foreigners in this matter and, secondly, that there will be self-payment for adult foreigners in order to learn Danish here in Denmark. That goes without saying. Will the Left not help to accept the legislation, but still not allow the citizens of the Kingdom to pay their own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151448-2	Well, as I have said, it is absolutely crucial for me that free Danish education is still available for Greenlanders and Faroese residents, and that will continue to be the case in the future. So this whole problem, i.e. whether to pay in future, is simply not right. There is the preparatory adult education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151510	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151519	Thank you. With this bill, the Government wants to introduce user charges on Danish education for foreign workers and students. The price will be DKK 12,000. for an entire Danish education. We are therefore talking about a group of people who are legally resident in Denmark who are working or studying in this country and who, for a whole part, will live in this country for many years to come or for the rest of their lives. In the hearing from the Education Association, it can be seen that this user fee will have severe consequences. The Federation has asked about the students at 11 language centers. 80% of the 1,300 asked have plans to stay in Denmark, but only 30 per cent. expects to participate in Danish education if user charges are introduced, as proposed by the government. In other words, this bill is going to damage integration in Denmark. This will mean that many people will face a future where they live in this country perfectly legally, but without being able to speak Danish. It is not good for Denmark, it is not good for our language and culture, and it is bad, not good for integration at all. I must also say that I am deeply concerned about the criticism that our two Greenlandic colleagues have made of the situation of Greenlandic and Faroese citizens, who fear being discriminated against against Danish citizens in the Kingdom Community. It is a concern that I think the whole parliament should take seriously. From the Enhedslisten side, I can say that we are against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151709	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151723	This proposal, as previous rapporteurs have said, means that we are introducing a user fee for Danish education for foreign workers and students. In the Liberal Alliance we have the basic view that one is welcome in Denmark if one can commit oneself in Danish society, abide by the common rules of the game and support oneself. The right of foreigners to Danish welfare benefits should, on the other hand, be very limited. You should contribute before you have access to services funded by Danish taxpayers. Denmark has an independent interest in people staying here learning Danish, but it should therefore be quite unproblematic to ask people to pay a smaller part of the cost of Danish teaching for both students and people with a job. So if you're in Denmark, this is a small cost. As a student you can prioritize it, and otherwise you can wait until you have finished and got a job if you want to stay here after completing your education. We think this is a healthy principle. No one is in doubt about that. The Liberal Alliance supports basic user charges and, of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151835	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508151902	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is a draft law that is about changing, so that in the law on Danish education for adult foreigners etc. will be introduced in the event of a participant's payment. I can begin by saying that the alternative is voting against this bill. We see it as integrating that people living in Denmark have the opportunity to learn Danish, it is a very good idea. We believe it is positive for the individual's ability to participate actively in society, to be a citizen and to be integrated into Danish society. We are concerned that if there is a payment for participants, we risk excluding people from Danish education and that foreigners will opt out of the possibility of participating in Danish education. In addition, many associations and organisations in the consultation responses point out that the proposal may have a negative impact on the attraction and retention of foreign labour, the retention of foreign researchers and students and particularly negative in terms of integration. Nor do we agree that absenteeism in Danish education can be translated directly into an expression of lack of motivation. These are precisely students and workers, which is why some absenteeism is to be expected. If there are no other reasons, we believe that there should be other ways of reducing that problem. As can be seen from the consultation answers, all organisations and associations are opposed to the draft law for the above reasons and call for it not to be implemented, and this is among other things. A2B, Akademikerne, Danish Refugee Aid, Danish Universities and others. Then there is the whole problem of our Kingdom community, in relation to the fact that Greenlanders and Faroe Islands will also be included in this bill, and that alone would mean that the alternative would vote against. I think that this is extremely problematic, and I think it is quite clear that the Folketing will also have to take this seriously. So with those words, I have to say that we are voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152104	Thank you. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152125	This bill is very unwise. This is unwise in a situation where it is necessary to invest more in the integration of foreigners into our society. There is, of course, general agreement on this, at least as far as I know. All right, the Danish People's Party does not want to integrate, but all other parties that have some sense in them know that it is necessary for us to have better integration. If you have it as a starting point, it is not wise to charge participants for Danish education, knowing that it will keep some people away from going to Danish education. I think that instead we should motivate as much as possible to improve people's language skills, and this is not done by making this proposal. One might then ask oneself: is it not reasonable to find this saving? I do not know, but the savings are part of the government's tax agreement, and that is why I find it a little strange that the Social Democrats are defending this saving as offensively as they do. But it's gonna be their case. However, we cannot support this bill and, like the various organisations that have expressed themselves in the hearings, we are fully aware that this will have a negative impact on integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152300	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152320	Thank you very much. Throughout my time as an elected member of the Danish Parliament, I have been able to see a development towards a more equal and more respectful relationship between us in the Kingdom Community. This is a development which I believe is necessary and which I am anxious to continue to contribute to. For the same reason, I also look with concern at this bill that we are discussing today, because it equates Greenlandic citizens, and that is also Danish citizens, with foreigners in Denmark. Personally, I may be afraid that when we begin to equate Greenlanders with foreigners, we also contribute to a sense of equal value in the Kingdom community, which is then declining. That is why there is a great deal at stake for me, and I think it is a very fundamental matter. There is a worrying wording in the draft law, as it includes ■ and I quote: "Here, Greenlanders and Faroese people over the age of 18 who, for particular reasons, do not master the Danish language to such an extent that they can operate in the Danish community'. Seen with Greenlandic glasses, it is not an equal position that Greenlanders in Denmark are awarded with this bill. At the same time, the consequence will also be with this bill if it is voted through that Greenlanders living in Denmark have reduced their opportunities to get to work and to be able to participate actively in society. It cannot and should not be accepted. An equal community demands that we are all worth the same amount, and the draft law bears witness in my view that this is not the case in all aspects of the Kingdom community, and I am truly very sorry about that. Because it is quite possible that there are some alternative opportunities for Danish teaching for Greenlanders living in Denmark, among others. through preparatory adult education or employment-oriented efforts, but nevertheless the draft law reduces the opportunities for Greenlanders living in Denmark and who do not fully master the Danish language. I think it is important that, on the contrary, we make an effort to ensure that more Greenlanders enter the labour market and actively contribute to the Danish society in which they have chosen to settle. Here in the Folketing we have the task of ensuring that equality and equal value are considered in the calculation when legislation is made in areas which apply to all of us in the Kingdom Community. We therefore also have work to do in relation to the part of the legislative proposal that I believe we should direct our attention towards. Inuit Ataqatigiit cannot therefore support the legislative proposal as it stands and we will be tabling an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152611	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152613	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that the preparatory adult education continues to provide free Danish education for Greenlanders resident in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152625	I do, and as rapporteur I also mentioned in my speech that, of course, there is still room for that. But that doesn't change the principle that this bill would like to equate Greenlanders with foreigners. I think that is a slippery slope, because what are a lot of other legislative proposals coming in, where you suddenly want to equate Greenlanders with foreigners? Nor does it change the fact that even if you have access to FVU education, as it is abbreviated, you will still have a reduced access compared to the possibility that you currently have as Greenlander in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152700	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152707	But if it is the case that Danish teaching is still available for native Greenlanders, I do not understand why, to use that expression, a mood is being stirred up that Greenlanders will not be able to receive free Danish education in the future. You can, and that's why I don't understand it. It seems more symbolic to make it appear in the media as if Greenlanders have to pay to learn Danish in the future, when that is simply not the case, and when there are several other very good and very good ways to get free Danish education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152740	Thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity to elaborate on it as well. Now the questioner knows me well enough to know that I am not flogging up a mood unnecessarily, but I think it is a question of principle that worries me, and it is on behalf of the Greenlanders, the more than 16 000 Greenlanders who live in Denmark. Fortunately, a lot of people are good at speaking Danish, but when you look at the figures compared to how many Greenlanders are in work, that is all, far too low. And I have just been in dialogue with the government, among other things. The Minister for Employment, in view of the fact that we can make an effort to get more Greenlanders into the labour market, thus reducing opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152818	There was a question from Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152820	I just have to be absolutely sure: does there come an amendment from IA to exempt Greenlanders and Faroese from this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152828	We intend to make an amendment because we find it worrying that Greenlanders and Faroese people should be treated in principle with foreigners in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152838	We thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. And then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508152900	Thank you very much. It is clear from the draft law amending the law on Danish education for adult foreigners and others that Greenlanders are the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and not of citizenship. In comments on the draft law, in the section "Springs' The Ministry's reflections and the proposed scheme say: "In this way, the population of the proposed contribution will be foreigners who have been granted a residence permit for employment, studies, etc. under the rules of the Aliens Act, the family members of such foreigners, Nordic citizens and foreigners with a right of residence under EU law. In addition, it will be about EU border commuters offered Danish education under § 2a of the Act, and finally Greenlanders and Faroese and other Danish nationals offered Danish education under § 2d (a) of the Act. It also says: "Danish citizens over 18 years of age who, because of long periods of residence abroad, do not master the Danish language to such an extent that they can operate in Danish society, including those born to Danish parents resident abroad. ▪ We are in a kingdom community, within the same state. Greenland is not abroad, but within its own framework. We are three different countries with three different languages, three different stories and three different cultures. We are a diverse kingdom community of countries with each our own history. Some have the Danish language as their mother tongue, while others have it as their first foreign language. We are all officially learning Danish as a first foreign language, just as English is for the Danes. We've all had it in school, but most people don't use it in everyday life, just like I never used it in my everyday life when I grew up. I only had it in Danish schools when I spoke Danish with my Danish teacher. I did not have the opportunity to practise it, since everyone spoke Greenlandic. So at an adult age, when I was over 18, I really realized how important it was that I mastered the Danish language if I wanted to go further than primary school. It has been very important here, and I have needed to have the opportunity and access to mastering the language, i.e. to have access to teaching so that I could use it in a normal everyday life. There are so many people in the same situation as I did, not only socially vulnerable Greenlanders who find it difficult to master the Danish language in Denmark, but also many other young students who need an extra boost to perhaps learn the academic Danish in order to be able to do the best in the Danish system, in the educational system. We are many Greenlanders who need to have access to modular Danish education in Denmark to varying degrees. The possibility that we have is going to be reduced in the context of this bill if it is adopted in its present form. Despite having access to higher education, this will still mean that Greenlanders' access to free education in Danish will be reduced. I don't think that's a smart solution. This will not help to promote motivation, as is the intention of the draft law. On the contrary, I believe that many of the marginalised Greenlanders in Denmark will be even more marginalised, as the Social Affairs Council also points out that the consequences of this may be. The Greenlandic Houses have not been parties to this round of consultations, which I think is really, really a pity, because they have a very important voice and often represent trends and experiences in Danish legislation, which the users of the Greenlandic Houses also question. We in Nunatta Quitornai do not support the proposal, since more studies of social vulnerability, such as: was made in 2014 and 2016 shows that Greenlanders who go to Denmark to study or work may be affected by cultural and linguistic barriers that may increase the risk of social exposure. And free Danish education is crucial in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153411	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153414	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear the rapporteur's comments on the importance of learning the Danish language, especially at school as a child. I think that's where you learn the fastest and best, that's when you get it in from the very young years. That is why I am also pleased that we share the view that free Danish education should continue to be available for Greenlanders resident in Greenland, and that is what remains, even if it is made sound in a different way in the Greenland media. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is how the rapporteur can emphasise the importance of learning Danish at school while supporting the new Greenlandic Government, which has said here a few days ago that Danish is going to be downgraded in Greenlandic schools. After all, we see some terrible statistics from high schools in Greenland, where up to half of the students drop out, among other things. because they have such poor Danish knowledge, and thus they are cut off from higher education in Denmark. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a little ironic that the rapporteur then supports the idea that Danish should be downgraded in Greenlandic schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153526	This bill has nothing to do with the elections in Greenland. This bill has nothing to do with Greenland's national affairs and language policy. This is a purely Danish proposal on how to treat Greenlanders in the future, who may want to have access to a Danish education in Denmark consisting of six modules, and about the user fee you want to introduce. We speak three languages in Greenland, or three languages are required of us. First there is the Greenlandic, which is the official language, the second being Danish, and the third being English. That you want to give priority to English is, I think, a natural priority, because the world is more globalised than ever before. The same is also required in Denmark, i.e. to master the English much better than has been done so far. This does not mean that we in Greenland have said that Danish education will be withdrawn. On the contrary. The Danish language will still be of great importance to us as long as we belong together and as long as we have good cooperation, including in terms of access to different courses. But this proposal makes it worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153635	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153637	I do not agree, of course, that it makes it worse when you continue to have access to free Danish education in a number of different ways. I agree that this is not a debate on the Greenlandic elections, but when we talk about the importance of the Danish language, among other things. so that we can move forward at a high school and at higher education, for example. in Denmark, I think it sounds a little hollow that the rapporteur highlights the importance of the Danish language in Denmark from the platform here in the Danish Parliament, alongside the fact that the new government in Nuuk chooses officially to downgrade Danish in relation to English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153718	The fact that Greenland is heading for independence is a reality. The fact that Greenland will also work more purposefully internationally than we have ever done before is a reality. And the language skills required of us are also a reality. Denmark will fill less and less in the future when Greenland moves towards independence. It is also a reality. But regardless of Greenland's path to independence, this proposal is not based on the trends in Greenland. This is simply a proposal on how to treat your own citizens, and that is a deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153753	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153755	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is not worried about, given that at least there are more people who believe in Greenland that efforts should be reduced in relation to the Danish language, that when Greenlanders come to Denmark in the future, there will be even more who need Danish education, because politically in Greenland they want to weaken their efforts, in order to ensure that the Greenlanders learn the Danish language. Is the rapporteur not concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153825	I believe that each of us has a responsibility to ensure that we can master the language that we think is important to us. It can be learned from home, but it can also be learned in society, and it can be learned everywhere else. Regardless of our efforts from home, this is a Danish effort towards Danish citizens who are Greenlanders. This weakens efforts and free access that the Greenlanders have in Denmark. If you are serious about wanting to strengthen the Kingdom community, it is of course also important that you treat the citizens of the Kingdom with equal rights and equality and not under the law of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153904	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153907	I would like to stress that, as far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, it is incredibly important that when Greenlanders come to Denmark, they also have very good conditions, because it is absolutely right, as Mrs Aleqa Hammond says, that we are citizens of the same kingdom, so we must be treated equally. We also think that Danish People's Party should have the possibility of Danish teaching, and if Greenlanders come to Denmark, who may not have such good Danish knowledge, we must of course ensure that they are helped. I just want to ask the question one more time, because I think that's what Mr. Marcus Knuth, that it sounds a bit hollow: Isn't Mrs Aleqa Hammond worried that in the future there will be more Greenlanders who, when they come to Denmark, will need Danish education because they are working politically in Greenland to weaken the Danish language? Is that in the interests of the Greenlanders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508153950	I think this is an attempt to distort the very purpose of the legislation, namely to turn it into Greenland's problem. This is purely Danish legislation, which is adopted by the Danish Parliament. It is simply the government's policy that says that Greenlanders must be treated in the same way as foreigners and that they must pay to learn Danish in the Danish education. It is not equalising one's own citizens, and that is turning it into something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154023	Thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Then it's mr. Bjarni Hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154050	Thank you, President. As has been mentioned several times, the proposal is part of the tax agreement concluded by the government with the Danish People's Party earlier this year. In short, the introduction of this contribution for Danish education should be used to finance part of a political agreement. This is and remains a purely Danish decision, which one is, of course, entitled to make. Usually neither I nor Javnaðarflokkurin will interfere with how you choose to finance a political agreement here in Denmark. On the contrary, we have a long and good tradition that we do not interfere in each other's internal affairs. However, when I choose to speak, it is because this may affect both Faroese and Greenlanders. This is, in fact, directly apparent from the draft law. Just this part of the bill, I think we should think twice about it. At least the committee work should clarify how many Faroese and Greenlanders are affected by a demand for user fees and how much the Danish state saves by excluding this group of Faroese and Greenlanders, who may already have a difficult economic and social situation. Perhaps we should also consider taking Faroese and Greenlanders out of the bill. In addition, the bill comes right on top of a very depressing decision that you should no longer be able to study Faroese as an option at the University of Copenhagen. This bill will then reduce the ability of certain Faroese to acquire Danish. It's a boring development. That is why I think that we should discuss this bill openly and honestly, because that is what we have to do, as we choose to mention Faroese and Greenlanders in this bill, and as these Faroese and Greenlanders may be affected by the bill. One might ask whether this is the signal about the Kingdom community that one wants to send out that it is a community of kingdoms where those who need it most must have money out of their pockets to acquire another language of the Kingdom community. I think we should sit down and talk about this, and then I am sure that a good solution will be found. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154330	Thank you, sir. Bjarni Hammer. And then we reached Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154341	Thank you. And thank you, President, for allowing me to speak at the end; I should also be somewhere else about government policy, which has just been agreed here. However, thank you for the floor here in connection with the treatment of the law amending the law on Danish education to adult foreigners and others, i.e. the introduction of the present contribution for Danish education. Now we've heard that, among other things. for Greenlanders and foremen, that is, parts of the Commonwealth, that they now also have to pay to become part of and get the full linguistic part of our society when they come here. But that also applies to all foreign students, and that applies to the foreign workers who come here and whom we need so much. That's what investigation shows. In the Radical Left, we feel that when, on the one hand, we demand that when you have come here, and when you have been invited and received a job or an education, you also have to acquire the language, make an effort to integrate, and on the other hand we make it harder and impossible for some to introduce this fee, but then we do not promote integration, and we do not make it easier to become part of our Danish society, but we do need that part. That's why we're against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154517	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's series, and then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508154529	Thank you for the debate on this bill. With the bill, the government wants to strengthen the incentive to learn Danish and also to take responsibility for its own integration. It is important that all foreigners living and living in Denmark also take the Danish language to heart. The language is important in order to be able to live both in the workplace, in the study and in the ordinary everyday life here in Denmark. With the bill, we strengthen the incentive to take responsibility for ourselves, so that only the self-supporting students who are motivated start on the training. I think that's common sense. Because it is my firm belief that people who want to come to Denmark to work or study must make an effort themselves to ensure that their stay in Denmark is successful. That's exactly the attitude the government wants to strengthen with this bill. I have a clear expectation that this is something that you as a foreigner take into account when you want to move to Denmark. Then you have to be willing to pay something for it. Successful integration is largely based on the motivation of the individual foreigner to be integrated, and I do not believe that a contribution of DKr 2 000 at all. per module should play a crucial role. It is certainly an investment in your own future in Denmark when you take a Danish education. There has also been criticism that the bill does not contribute to the government's policy of making it easier for Danish companies to recruit and retain foreign labour. Reference is made here, among other things. to the fact that there is a shortage of labour in several industries and that Denmark is at risk of being opt-out for the benefit of other countries. It is also referred to that the proposal, in particular for accompanying spouses and international students, will reduce the possibility and incentive to start a Danish education. I can say that I simply do not agree. First of all, it is because Denmark is a good country and an attractive country both to work in, but also to study in, and it is a country with incredibly many opportunities. I think it is quite different and bigger than a partial user fee of DKK 2,000. per module for Danish teaching, which really has an impact on whether you want to settle in Denmark to work and study. And then, of course, the proposal also provides additional funds, which we then spend on a very good tax reform that supports growth and prosperity. There has also been criticism and concern that a total of DKr 12,000 will be paid by participants. for all six modules Danish education is such a large amount that it will mean that some will not learn Danish at all because they cannot afford it. But I have to say that I believe that a contribution of DKK 2 000. per module is a perfectly reasonable and sensible requirement to make. When you are a self-supporting student and e.g. If you have a job, then it is not unreasonable that you should also pay a little for teaching. Perhaps it is also important to put the amount into perspective, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party also did. In 2016, the total average price of a single Danish module was 16,000 DKK, and today it is a cost that is fully borne by the public sector. It should also be borne in mind that the students have 5 years to complete their Danish education and that they can take a break together for up to 11⁄2 years. The total cost of up to DKK 12,000 For a Danish education can therefore also be distributed over a number of years, and it is therefore not the case that the proposal for a certain self-payment is completely unknown from other countries. We take, for example. a country such as Norway, which is a country with which we usually compare ourselves, yes, so it is the case that all workers outside the EEA and EFTA themselves pay for their Norwegian education, and so do their families fully. In Denmark, the government is now proposing that you as a self-employed person pay a smaller part of the price for Danish education, and that is also a voluntary offer. I am therefore absolutely convinced that Denmark will continue to be an attractive country for international labour and international students. A limited own payment for Danish for this group is basically a healthy principle. To conclude, I should like to comment on the concerns that have been raised about the children of foreign parents. It has been pointed out that it is crucial that children of foreign parents have an age-related Danish when they start school, and I fully agree with that. It is the government's concern that the children get started quickly learning the Danish language, and this includes among other things. therefore also in a number of initiatives in the government's proposal on parallel societies, which precisely aim that children have an age-matching Danish when they start school. Having said that, it is the parents who choose to enter and settle here in Denmark to either work or study, and the children are therefore primarily the parents' responsibility. It is therefore the parents who decide how best to support the children's learning of the Danish language and how to ensure their children's well-being and daily in Denmark, including, of course, in institutions and schools. We are therefore again talking about self-supporting responsible people who make responsible choices for themselves and the family. Finally, concern has also been raised here today about Greenlanders and Faroese people living in Denmark in particular, so that they may be affected by cultural and linguistic barriers, which may increase the risk of marginalisation of vulnerable groups. Therefore, it is also important to have Danish education, says those who raise the criticism here today. Here I would like to make it clear that it is of course important that Greenlanders and Faroese people living here in Denmark continue to have the opportunity to receive Danish education, and so do they. Of course, Greenlanders and Faroese people must continue to have access to Danish education, and so this bill does not change that. In addition, Danish teaching at FVU-start, which is free of charge, is considered to be a useful alternative for the majority of Greenlanders and Faroese people in relation to the Danish education covered by this bill. Already today, therefore, there are also many Greenlanders and Faroese people who are participating in FVU education. I look forward to the further examination of this draft law, and then, of course, questions will be raised both today and during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155322	There are at least a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155326	I would like to thank the Minister for his remarks on remembering Greenlanders and Faroese. Now the Minister is talking about common sense, and I think it is important to emphasise that the focus that we from the IA have is the marginalised Greenlanders. These are also what the Council of Social Affairs Ministers is calling attention to. For them, I don't think 12,000 kroner. is change. I know that there are a lot of people who are unable to get cash benefits today, because there are some challenges with some CPR numbers and some different other things within the border barriers that exist between Greenland and Denmark. But I would really like to ask the Minister a more fundamental question, because the principle of this draft law is that Greenlanders and convicts should be treated in the same way as foreigners, and I would like to know whether this is something the Minister intends to do at another time, in another area, because otherwise it will certainly cause me a great deal of concern, and that is not common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155429	No, and I actually think that something has gone a little wrong in this debate. In fact, if another Danish citizen comes back to Denmark and has been out of town for many years and has thus somehow lost the language, then it is entirely by the same rules. It is therefore not only because you come from Greenland or live in the Faroe Islands that this comes into force; it is all, including other Danish citizens, who have been travelling abroad, who must have freshened the Danish up or learned the Danish that comes under this scheme. And when that is the case, it is not to bother anyone, it is actually because the assessment is that when you want to make these demands on other EU citizens, it also means that other Danish citizens must be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155527	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155528	Thank you very much for your answer. It is very clear from the consultation table that there is and that the government has commented on, that Greenlanders and Faroese are equated with foreigners. So I do not quite understand that criticism and, as I said, I think there are two tongues on the part of the government on this issue. I find this deeply worrying and I think it is a matter of principle. I must take it for good, but it is certainly something that has aroused my concern and which I hope will not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155559	With all due respect, I think that there are, like, one of two options here. One is that you want to try to start a conflict here, but that conflict is not there. The other side, and that's the other side, maybe we haven't somehow had this explained properly and well enough. I choose to believe in the other option. But I just want to say again: if a Danish citizen has been out of town for a number of years and comes back to have Danish education, then you are subject to exactly the same rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155639	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155643	The Danish Kingdom consists of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I did not know that Greenland was regarded by the government as a foreign country. For as the minister says: Danes who have been abroad and had a certain number of years of residence and who come back to Denmark and need some Danish education are going to pay for it. But we're still in the same state. What have I misunderstood about the constitution of the Commonwealth? And why should Greenlanders be sidelined as foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155721	Again, with all due respect: I mean, it seems a little now you just want to run up some kind of conflict that just doesn't exist. It simply does not exist and I regret that I have to say it so squarely. However, the legal assessment is that if it is to include EU citizens, it means that it must also include other Danish citizens who are to receive Danish education under the same legislation. And that also means that if another Danish citizen who has lived in the United States or in Brazil or in Japan or in Saudi Arabia, or wherever it may be, comes home and has to receive education according to the same legislation, he or she will pay part of it himself, just like all other EU citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155810	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155811	After all, we are not EU citizens, we are part of the Danish Kingdom. We haven't moved out of the state framework. It may sound a little funny to the Minister for Integration, but this is certainly not fun for us Greenlanders when we are in the same community, but are treated on an equal footing with foreigners on the grounds that if you have been abroad, you will be treated differently from other Danes when you return. So I would like to ask once again whether Greenland is considered to be a foreign country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155851	No!
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155856	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155900	Well, I have to say, I think it's a little bizarre. Very recently, we had the Prime Minister standing here in Question Time expressing concern about the change of the Danish language by the new Greenland Government in relation to education and other languages. Now we have a bill that makes it harder for Greenlandic and Faroese citizens in Denmark to learn Danish. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister has coordinated this proposal with the Prime Minister, because it does not seem that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155936	I can say that this bill doesn't make it harder for anyone to learn Danish. This means that there is a tiny self-payment in relation to the costs that are, by learning the Danish language so it doesn't make it any harder to learn Danish. As to whether it's coordinated? Of course, it is coordinated in that it is part of our tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155957	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508155958	Well, what we could hear from our two Greenlandic colleagues was that one is extremely concerned about what it will have consequences for not least the vulnerable Greenlandic and Faroese citizens in Danish society. I would just like to know if the Minister takes that concern seriously. The Minister refers to some EU rules that require us to equate Greenlandic and Faroese citizens with EU citizens. Is it an EU requirement that it should be that way? Or is it the government that conducts a policy that compares the two sizes? And if this is an EU requirement, what will be done to change the EU requirement so that the EU respects the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160042	Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160043	Now it is not a question of Greenlandic and Faroese people coming to Denmark, but I just mentioned Danish citizens, so it is all Danish citizens who will then be covered by these rules if they have been travelling abroad and have to receive Danish education under the same legislation. Now they are covered by it completely like EU citizens, and that is because you cannot discriminate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160110	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160121	Before moving on to the next item on the agenda, I should like to read out the following reviews: Karsten Hønge (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the change of tax credit for quotas for trade unions). Josephine Fock (ALT) and René Gade (ALT): Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of the Data-Ethical Council). The title of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160152	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160156	I've been looking forward to discussing this bill here in Parliament. For if there is an issue that has created debate and had significance in Danish foreign policy since the adoption of the Aliens Act in 1983, it is the rules on family reunification, that is to say by which rules citizens in Denmark should be able to obtain foreign family members for Denmark. Few questions in Danish politics have created so much discussion and controversy and division, and therefore it is actually amazing how outratically a fairly broad majority in the Danish Parliament has succeeded in concluding an agreement on these very rules, especially considering that the attachment requirement, which has in many ways been a cornerstone of the Aliens Act, is now completely removed. The background to this bill was the most curious and incomprehensible judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which declared the old 28-year rule contrary to human rights. The 28-year rule was the provision which served as an exception to the attachment requirement. The judges believed that the exception discriminated against. When I heard about the verdict, I was rather discouraged and surprised, and I still have not fully understood their arguments, although I have really tried. But now the sentence has almost ended as luck in bad luck. The Social Democratic Party, together with the Danish People's Party and the governing parties, has decided to use the judgment as an opportunity to replace the requirement that the couple's overall relationship with Denmark should be greatest, with a number of demands on the couple's ability to integrate well into Denmark. It is about the couple's employment, education and language skills. We have spent a long time discussing the five requirements, of which the couple must meet the three. In the negotiations we have tried to adjust a little on the different models and tried to test what it will have in mind for typical examples of spouses. I think we have struck fairly correctly with the current demands. However, it will be a joint responsibility to monitor developments closely and to assess whether the results also correspond to the intention of making integration requirements. In addition, it is among other things. agreed that the requirement for an appropriate accommodation is now also added to a requirement that the resident does not live in one of the most vulnerable residential areas. It has been important for social democracy. We want the housing areas that have been carrying out the greatest integration tasks for decades not to be entrusted with additional tasks, but rather to be relieved. Finally, it has been important for the Social Democratic Party that foreigners wishing to settle permanently in Denmark have been visiting our country at least once before. And we are very pleased that agreement could be reached on this. We consider that this new legislation will make it easier for the married couples to understand what they have to fulfil in order to settle together in Denmark, while at the same time ensuring our society a better opportunity to integrate the new arrivals in a good way. In this way, the new rules on the reunification of spouses follow the political agreement on the granting of citizenship and the new rules on permanent residence, and now also the broad agreement on strengthening the most vulnerable residential areas, which, with the votes of both sides of the Parliamentary Assembly, provide a stable basis for the Danish immigration and integration policy. In the Social Democratic Party we hope that broad political support can create the calm that has been missing for so long in this otherwise normally a little inflamed political area. With controlled immigration combined with integration that slowly begins to show positive signs, we dare to believe that the small Danish welfare society can be preserved and developed in a world where both goods, information and people move increasingly across borders. Such a welfare society is able to provide its citizens with an opportunity to travel abroad and fall in love without the rules of family reunification actually acting as chain immigration of people who find it very difficult to settle in our societies. This bill brings us a significant step closer to such a society... an open nation state that meets globalisation without naivety. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160606	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160611	I would like to ask a question which is a little less practical than those somewhat highly-voted considerations that come from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. It's about the housing part of this. I noted a response from BL and BL's chairman, Bent Madsen, in which he writes that this could result in resourceful people moving out of vulnerable residential areas and that this could have the opposite effect than what was actually intended. Because when those who are resourceful, who want family reunification, move out, others come in instead, and that is why you risk getting a further strain on those residential areas. It has to be in the back of the head here that there are a number of demands for family reunification through this bill. It is not the case that an illiterate from East Anatolia can be brought together here in Denmark. These are requirements for training, employment and so on. This means that, at least through the three requirements, there are quite resourceful people who come up here. This will all the other things being equal mean that a rise in the level of housing areas will be achieved through their family reunification in the residential areas concerned. In other words, are the Socialists not afraid that this might have the opposite effect on the vulnerable residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160742	The short answer is no. I am not worried about this, especially when we combine it with the negotiations that are going on right now, both in the Ministry of Employment and in the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, which deals with who should be able to move into these vulnerable residential areas and who should be given the opportunity to direct a residence. After all, we are in the middle of some political negotiations and an agreement that was reached for, I understand, almost an hour ago, in the Ministry of Finance, which is about changing the nature of these vulnerable residential areas, changing the composition of housing and the composition of the residents. Here we believe that it is an objective in itself that the families, which consist of a resident and a foreigner who have come here, fill less in these vulnerable residential areas. Because even if they have work and if they meet all the requirements needed to get a marriage union, there is no change in the fact that there is still an integration task. Although there may not be a social policy task, there is still an integration task, and we do not think we should put that integration task in Mjølnerparken and Vollsmose and in Tingbjerg and in Gellerupparken. We think it is reasonable that the rest of Danish society should also bear its share of the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160901	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508160903	Well, we are in complete agreement with that. That's not what this is about. It's about the fact that to the extent that there is a resourceful person in Mjølnerparken who wants to join a family, he will move away from Mjølnerparken because of this. That doesn't make Mjølnerparken any more attractive. This does not mean that there will be fewer problems in the Mjølner Park. On the contrary, and that is the whole point of Bent Madsen's objection here. It's that the resourceful are moving away because of this. In other words, it will have the opposite effect from what the Socialists want. Is that something that is completely black talk for the Socialists? You don't care about that? I simply do not understand that. That is why I really want to call for a reconsideration of the housing part of this. After all, the other three parts are very much required. In other words, we are talking about people who, if I may say so, must be able to be integrated. I just don't understand why you have to bring that housing claim in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161004	We don't want to take that housing claim out of this bill. It's kind of something we've been very happy about is part of it. Because if a self-supporting man with a Pakistani background lives in the Mjølner Park and wants to be brought together with his new wife who lives in Pakistan, then it may well be that he is a well-functioning, resourceful man from a social point of view, but we will stick to the fact that the married couple and their children will still be a task for the local primary school and the local day care institutions, and therefore it is reasonable that it is not the local community that should carry that integration task, but that we ask the rest of Danish society to take part in this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161047	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161049	I must say that is a wild thing to hear, so that, simply because you have a different ethnic background from Danish, you are a burden. I think that's crazy to hear from the Social Democratic Party. I think that is extremely important, and I think that there are a great many Social Democrats, but also people who have had faith in the Social Democrats, who feel offended that this is really the position of the party today. But I would like to ask you something following on from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's comment. Because, as I understand the housing requirement that is being imposed, it is of course a matter of housing areas that meet four out of the five criteria set by the government. This means that it is a wider group of residential areas than the group designated by the government as particularly vulnerable residential areas. That means, of course, that we, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen talks about a situation in which some areas which are not the most heavily burdened, but which, after all, have a number of problems, will find that resourceful people are moving out. Is it really not something that worries the Social Democratic Party when we can now see that this is something that the tenants' associations are deeply concerned about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161211	On the basis of which list there should be a basis for not having a marriage, I would say that unfortunately this happened in the negotiations and it is also clear from the draft law that we cannot lean on the normal ghetto list, and therefore a completely new list has been constructed. But I hope that at some point we can get a few fewer lists so that it will be a little easier to navigate. To the extent that the number has a significance is the answer from the Social Democratic Party: Yes. And that is basically the discussion we have here. I am not talking about the fact that there are some people there is no strain on Danish society; I am talking about that if there is a school class where 80%. of the children have parents who come from abroad, then there is a huge integration task. And it is no use that Enhedslisten's rapporteur then points to the individual child and says: Why is this child a burden? We are talking about the fact that the composition of children in schools, day care centres and residential areas is a problem, and we believe that it is a political task to ensure diversification. We can all agree on the political task when we talk in headlines, but when it becomes concrete, for example. When we discuss the distribution of high school pupils, the distribution of children in day care institutions or, as now, how to ensure that a residential area has a sensible composition of residents, I am sorry to say that Enhedslisten, but also other parties, is shaking hands. And I think it is absolutely crucial that we live together in this country and not separated, and that is why this is a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161331	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161333	Now I get a little confused, because first Mr. Mattias Tesfaye to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that one was not at all worried that resourceful people would move out of the residential areas, because a number of other measures were being undertaken which were negotiated with the government. However, the rapporteur was just saying that these are quite different residential areas we are actually talking about than the so-called ghetto areas that are being negotiated with the government in relation to a number of measures. And that will certainly mean that there are some residential areas which do not have five out of five, but which have four out of five indicators, and which will experience that resourceful people are moving away from them at a time when they are moving weak out of the most strained areas. This could lead to new problems in the residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161427	I'm not quite sure I understood the question. However, I can only say that the list set out in this draft law is broadly similar to the ghetto list which is currently in force, but precisely those criteria are also under negotiation in these days, and that is why it will be adjusted in a very short space of time. But in any case, the lists are basically similar. That does not alter the principle that the integration of the people who come to our country is a common task. This is not something we can load on to a few residential areas, and therefore there is also a need to arrange for a changed housing mix, and one of the tools, not the only thing, but one of the tools, is to say: If you want your foreign spouse to Denmark, then you cannot live in this very small part of the housing stock, which already has more than 50%. residents with other ethnic backgrounds or with foreign backgrounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161513	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161515	Thank you. Let us say that a Danish student woman goes to China, falls in love and marries a man with a Chinese background, and he gets a job in Denmark, does the rapporteur not agree that it would be an enrichment for a exposed residential area that a strong resource would be a family, a married couple would move into such an area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161548	Now I do not know the family, but I would say that for a large part the answer will be yes, but for another large part it will be no. Therefore, it is no use that we always discuss Chinese and Americans when we discuss marriage. We also need to deal with the substance and the reality. And I do not think it would be beneficial for the Mjølner Park if a Pakistani living in the Mjølner Park were to marry a woman in Pakistan and that she would move into the Mjølner Park and that they would have children, and that it was the local primary school at the Mjølner Park that would carry that integration task. I don't think so. I think it's fair enough if he wants to marry and have his Pakistani wife to Denmark, but then I think it's fair that Danish society says: Try to listen here, buddy, then it won't be in one of these very few residential areas you're going to live; then you'll live in the 95%. the remaining part of the housing stock, which does not already undertake such an integration task as Mjølnerparken. I think it's perfectly legitimate and fair, and I'd be really sorry if it got ripped out of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161650	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161652	Is it because he is Pakistani that it is a problem, or is it because the family, you If this Pakistani married couple is a fully integrated part of society, have children in Danish school, contribute and pay their taxes, contribute in the residential area to help with the housing social effort? In Ishøj, therefore, some of the resourceful couples who come up with the housing order that the municipality has here, is that also a problem? Is it alone because of the Pakistani background?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161743	As the radical rapporteur and I both know, it makes no sense to discuss whether all married couples who are in this situation are either a burden on an area, an integration task or a huge resource, because they are different, because people are different. What I just think we should try to relate to is whether we think it would be a strength for the composition of pupils at the local primary school if another child starts in the primary school and has, for example, a child. a father who grew up in Denmark but has Pakistani as his mother tongue and who is married to a woman who has just arrived here from Pakistan. I would think it would be more reasonable if we were to ask one of the other primary schools in the municipality to carry out that task, and therefore it is pointless for us, blindfolded, to conduct housing policy and then complain about the fact that the children are being distributed differently in the schools. We will also have to dare to say in this case: Welcome to Denmark, you can stay, just where you want, except for the few residential areas that are already lifting a huge integration task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161844	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the ranks of rapporteurs. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508161852	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Following the 2011 parliamentary elections, the Social Democratic government relaxed the family reunification rules, and this, together with the relaxed asylum policy, got the consequence that the influx to Denmark increased significantly, and it was detrimental to Denmark. The Danish People's Party and the government have on several occasions agreed to do something about this, and we have done so, and with the support of the Social Democrats for the agreement that lies behind the bill, it can be said that the Social Democrats are helping to clean up after themselves. However, it is relevant to point out that many accidents could have been avoided if you had listened to the Danish People's Party back in 2011 and, as such, back when the Danish People's Party was founded, but it is of course a longer story. But now we are trying to repair the damage, even though to some extent the damage has been done. We have already tightened the family reunification rules for certain refugees, and the agreement we reached provides for further restrictions on foreigners with refugee status, but it will come at a later stage, as I understand it. This bill then applies to Danes, immigrants, descendants of immigrants and descendants of refugees. In the Danish People's Party we entered into the negotiations with the aim of improving the government's initiative, and we have succeeded. In relation to the government's proposal, Dansk Folkeparti has among other things. ensure that several Danish examinations are introduced, that Danish requirements are consolidated, that the financial guarantee is tightened, that the training requirements are tightened, that the housing requirement helps to ensure sensible integration in relation to those who are now staying here in Denmark. It is also our expectation in the Danish People's Party that these changes to the Aliens Act will lead to a further fall in total immigration to Denmark, and I shall not hide that from us, of course, is crucial. Since the election of the Danish People's Party, the Danish People's Party has been committed to reducing non-western immigration, particularly Muslim immigration, and we have worked to reduce total immigration to Denmark, and fortunately we have succeeded. We have done this by making the majority with the government alternately and a few times together with other parties in the Folketing, and we have among other things. reduced total immigration by tightening asylum policy, by tightening family reunification rules for certain refugees, by making it more expensive to apply to Denmark for certain groups and by limiting access to Danish welfare benefits. In addition, we have focused on sending as many asylum seekers and refugees out of the country as possible, and we have made it easier to expel criminal foreigners who are among other things. some of what has been adopted today and we have made it more attractive for resident foreigners to repatriate. It is just to mention a few of the many restrictions that have now been adopted. Then we have also reduced immigration by abolishing the green card system, and then we have tightened up the so-called 'amounts' system on several occasions, which has also ensured better control of the influx, while at the same time doing something good for Danish employees. So I hope the Danes can see that we take our task seriously. Now we are taking another step with this bill. The individual elements of the proposal are likely to limit the flow further, and we are, of course, satisfied with that. We would have liked to have seen from the Danish People's Party that in some cases agreement could be reached to exempt Danes from some of the demands, but since there is no majority for this, especially because of the government and the Social Democracy and others' great love for the conventions, a love that for these parties is greater than the love for its own people, unfortunately it is not possible. Then we would have liked to see a ceiling on non-Western immigration entered into the agreement, but no other parties wanted to support that. However, I still think that, after all, we have a balanced and quite sensible legislative proposal. In the Danish People's Party, as I said, we welcomed the Minister's proposal when it came, and we have then put some additional elements and restrictions into the agreement in the negotiations. We look forward to following developments with the hope that the number will fall again, because Denmark needs this. We believe that the Folketing, with what is here, makes reasonable demands on persons who wish to bring a spouse to the country • requirements that ensure that there will be foreigners who are not in the public interest, requirements that ensure that the foreigners in question learn the Danish language, and requirements that ensure that the person who wants to bring a foreign spouse to the country becomes more committed than today to supporting him if necessary. So, of course, we can support the draft law and we can also support the amendments which address some points in the draft law and which I understand the Ministry is preparing. So thank you for the floor and also thank you for a good course of negotiations. Let us get it adopted so that we can move forward with new austerity for the benefit of the country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162336	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162344	Thank you, President. It is always with admiration that I go to the platform for Mr. Martin Henriksen and hear the powerful words. That's good to hear. I am very pleased that today we are taking the first step towards implementing the agreement that we in the government have entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on a new system of family reunification. I am, because I am convinced that with this bill we are creating a more realistic and balanced system of family reunification with integration in focus. In concrete terms, we propose that we now abolish the attachment requirement and instead set six sensible criteria that can point to the prospect of successful integration. After really good discussions over in the Ministry, we have come to the conclusion that we must be able to meet four of the criteria for family reunification. I think that is only fair. The criteria include the fundamental elements of integration, such as the language skills of both parties, professional experience and training. Because, of course, these things are connected. Among other things: I would like to emphasise that we are now laying down tangible criteria for language skills, and this applies, as I said, to both parties in the relationship, and among other things. the fact that we are raising the requirement to be able to take Danish sample 2, I think is absolutely crucial. For one thing is to be able to understand and speak quite basically Danish, but also to be able to understand Danish in writing and write Danish, I think is a very, very important thing in order to be able to be part of Danish society. It is not long since we saw the case of a number of women from Somalia. One of them had lived in Denmark for, as I remember, 19 years, and could not have a basic conversation in Danish. In relation to family reunification, hopefully with this new higher Danish requirement, we will ensure that such situations do not arise, at least not as a result of family reunification. Therefore, I am sure that the new streamlining of the rules is something that will come to Denmark and if I may use Mr. Martin Henriksen's words were to the benefit of the country, and that is a good thing. That is why the Left supports the bill, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162624	Thank you. The unit list is opposed to the attachment requirement. We believe that as a citizen of Denmark, you should have the opportunity to fall in love with people outside the EU and the EEA without facing an uncertain future where you can be forced to move from your homeland to live with the one you love. It is worth noting in this context that in Denmark, even without an attachment requirement, we will have very strict and restrictive legislation in relation to family reunification. The reason for this government bill is, of course, that the European Court of Human Rights considered that the previous legislation was indirect discrimination and thus contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. With this law, the government is trying to avoid a violation of human rights while continuing to try to put up obstacles which would affect economically, socially and probably ethnically also. The requirement for security is doubled after the previous Socialist Government has been halved by the votes of Enhedslisten. So now we're going to have to put $100,000. in the form of a security, despite the fact that a foreign spouse will lose his/her residence in Denmark if the person receives a transfer income. Similarly, a new housing list is made which is apparently different from the government's so-called ghetto list, but which will have the effect that resourceful people will move from exposed residential areas in order to be allowed to live with the one they love. In other words, it will not benefit the vulnerable residential areas that badly need resourceful residents in order to improve local development. In addition, a spouse is required to pass Danish 3 which is targeted people who have a academic education in the luggage of their country of origin. In other words, it will be very difficult to survive for people who have only a short education behind them. That's what you could call education snobbery. One can easily be a good citizen in Denmark without having a baccalaureate, and I do not know where the idea has arisen that one should be a worse citizen because one does not have a baccalaureate. I have to say that I personally know a lot of good people in our country who don't have one. Finally, the A1 and A2 tests must be passed after 6 and 9 months respectively, requirements which can create nothing but uncertainty for the married couples involved and which will lead to a great deal of bureaucracy. The Enhedslisten is against the proposal and we are sorry that there is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162922	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508162931	Former rapporteurs have, of course, explained the parts of this bill. The purpose of the changes in these family reunification rules is to ensure that Danes can bring their foreign spouses to Denmark if both the spouse and the Dane can and will Denmark. At the same time, it must be a strong safeguard against all possible access to Denmark. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are standing here because we can no longer have the 26-year rule and the attachment requirement. I think this agreement is much better than what we had in the past. There is greater flexibility in it, and there is much more integration in focus. I think it makes sense that, as a couple, four out of the six conditions should be met, because this gives each couple greater flexibility. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163037	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163056	Thank you. Yes, as has been mentioned, we are here today because the previous law in this area had a connection requirement of 26 years. It became known illegally by the European Court of Justice, which is why a new law was made. They asked: How do we get married couples to Denmark? Well, that's what we're doing by setting an amount limit. As far as I remember, it was an amount of about 400,000 kroner that one should be able to support oneself with. This means that people who did not have an income of DKK 400 000 were discriminated against in this way. They also discriminated against pensioners who could return to Denmark, i.e. Danes who live abroad and as pensioners come back to Denmark and are self-supporting; but they could not come to Denmark either. The easy solution to this whole problem would be to remove the attachment requirement. We discussed this last time, but unfortunately there was no support for it. Instead, we are now faced with a legislative proposal which, to put it mildly, I find it difficult to find out whether it is better or worse than the discriminatory law it replaces. There's no doubt about who you want to hit with this bill. You want to hit non-ethnic Danes, and therefore there is a great deal of focus on integration. Once again, however, there is a misunderstanding, because the desire for integration is also being lubricated with a broad palette, so that everyone is covered by it. And then do the way you want integration in the bill. by telling people that one will require that they do not live in a exposed residential area • me very worried. Once again, I believe that this is a discriminatory legislative proposal, on all sides. As I can see from Danes Worldwide's problems about expats, i.e. people, Danish citizens living abroad, they are not really very happy with this bill either. In fact, I felt that after all, it improved the ability of these people, the Danish citizens, to return to Denmark, but it doesn't really do anyway. And, as far as I understand the legislation, it has not taken account of the retirement problem this time either. I would like to be able to vote in favour of it, because I really thought it was a positive change in relation to the bad law that was made here a year ago. I don't think it is. Then I've been trying to see if it'll benefit any groups. Yes, perhaps it benefits the Danish citizens who live abroad a little more. This could lead to the alternative voting yellow to it, but also after the debate that has taken place in the Chamber today, I would recommend to my group that we vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163443	Thank you. After all, the government, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party have agreed to abolish the attachment requirement. When that report came, I was really, really happy. That is a good thing, because we have and have for too long had a very definite situation in Denmark, where only Danes who marry foreigners who earn a very high salary can be allowed to live in their own country. So there are also a lot of people who have not been able to return to Denmark or whose spouse has been expelled, even though we are talking here about Danish citizens who contribute. But instead of just taking the simple model, the government, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party have agreed on this crunchy point system with some language requirements and some training requirements for both Danish citizens and their foreign spouses. Of course, there are people who can meet these requirements. But why is it that a distinction should be made if one can support oneself? Why should we be a snobbish parliament, about what kind of Danes must marry what kind of aliens, when you can support yourself and of course contribute to Danish society? Then these parties have agreed on the housing requirement, and that is what sadly dampened my enthusiasm when I had it studied. Well, if you live in a exposed residential area, you can't be allowed to marry a foreigner. That's direct discrimination. How it is to contribute to more mixed residential areas or to better integration, I simply cannot understand and it has not become clearer to me since today's debate. After all, they are people who are in work and who support themselves and their families. I don't think that's clear outside this room. This is not how it is presented. But these people will then move, and the residential area will only be even more exposed. In fact, I think I've just been over in front of the Ministry of Finance and helped to agree and allocate money to housing renovations in the exposed residential areas... that it's totally absurd that we've just agreed on it today: we want to renovate the vulnerable residential areas, we want to strengthen the housing social effort, we want to make these residential areas attractive to more people. That's what the Minister of Finance said. And then here in the Parliamentary Chamber we are introducing a housing requirement which means that everyone, with his or her full five and, by the way, with resources, work or education, will never move to a exposed residential area, because that means that he or she will be deprived of fundamental rights in advance and that he or she cannot move there if he or she is unlucky enough to have fallen in love with a foreigner. It is then the Parliamentary Chamber where it gradually makes no difference which side one comes from, because the goal alone seems to be that there should be no distinction between the major parties. But that means very, very clearly, as BL • Denmark's General Housing Office and, by the way, a large number of others have been asked questions about the past, that it will be much harder for them to make these residential areas attractive and to attract precisely the resourceful citizens that they want so much and that we stand and say that we also want to have. We cannot support a housing requirement which discriminates only because you marry a person with a different ethnic background from that of Europe. We have the simple model in the Radical Left. It clearly demands that you be able to support yourself, contribute to Danish society, but we do not want to interfere in whom Danes fall in love with. We do not think that it should ever be the task of the state to follow with us right into the bedroom. Danish citizens must be able to live in their own country with the one they love, no matter where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163948	There's a question. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508163952	Thank you. Of course, I fully understand that we can be more or less in agreement and disagree with some elements of the agreement. I just think it is important to maintain that the judgment that fell has had the political significance that we have removed the derogation. So right now we just have a raw attachment requirement that can then be sneaked around by temporary legislation that expires here on 1 July. This means that if we do not put something else in place, from 1 July we will only have an attachment requirement which will hit foreign dancers to such an extent. So with it as a backdrop it's actually also a comment on the Alternative and Enhedslisten, which has already been on the platform... wouldn't it be better for everything else to pass this bill? And can the Radical Left not, with the in mind, support this bill and then perhaps write a report contribution on the elements with which the party disagrees, but, after all, take responsibility for the entry into force of something else on 1 July? Because otherwise we have something completely hopeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164055	Well it is a completely relevant question and a discussion that we have had very thorough and even open in the party and with all relevant actors. I have also considered this very, very carefully and even publicly. Because it is true that the simplest and best model would be for us to abolish the attachment requirement. Then Danish citizens had the right to live in their own country with the one they love as long as they can support themselves, because we are already demanding this. After all, we already make a large number of demands on whom family members must be brought together. So there are a lot of pretty tough demands in advance. The reason why we cannot vote in favour is that such direct and concrete discrimination is introduced solely on the basis of your ethnicity, on the basis of which ethnic background you have, without realising what you contribute to Danish society. Your ethnicity alone determines whether we as a society can accept you and whether you can fall in love with you if you are a Danish citizen. And that's pretty basic for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164220	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164224	Now the radical rapporteur says that the best thing would be if we abolished the attachment requirement. Anyway, at least we're back in the ludo until the 1990s. Then we have nothing more than the 24-year rule to regulate the family reunification rules, and then it is, of course, that we end up in this situation with people who are being joined together here, whom we cannot integrate, because we have not made any reasonable demands on that marriage. So could the Radical Left's approach to this bill not be that the party is dealing with the regime that is being introduced, namely some integration requirements? Then it may well be that the party disagrees with whether it is Danish 2 or Danish 3 or whether you have to live up to three out of five or two out of five. We may disagree on all of that but the very idea that we are laying down some integration requirements instead of an attachment requirement, I think it would be good if a broad majority in the Folketing could back up. And then we can always discuss afterwards what specific requirements the foreign spouse and the resident have to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164332	First of all, it is not true that family reunification is not required. There are already a large number of requirements for this in other legislation. So if we abolished the attachment requirement, there would be a wide range of requirements for spouse reunification, family reunification in advance. It's there, and it's really hard. We are talking about Danish citizens, i.e. people who have either been born and raised in Denmark and thus born to citizenship in Denmark, or who have obtained citizenship. It's them we go in and decide who they can marry and who they can't marry. We are fundamentally opposed to this if you can support yourself, so we may disagree there too. But I would like to admit to the rapporteur that if there were only a number of demands, then we could disagree but go further. It is the fundamental discrimination that lies in the housing requirement that says that it is only your ethnicity that decides whether to fall in love with you or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164432	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur in the line is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164447	It is true that this bill is a consequence of the removal of the 28-year rule, so the attachment requirement would be the only one that could be used. That is why we are also, from the point of view of getting new rules for family reunification. The fact that we have integration requirements that we are setting up is not something that we wish to reject in advance, at least in relation to the requirement of affiliation, which is the alternative. There we are in agreement that something should be done. But at least we have two objections to this bill. The first is the limit of DKK 100,000. So it is really a lot of money that needs to be spent and it would seem socially wrong in a way that we do not find acceptable. The second point, as I mentioned earlier, is the housing requirement. We think that is quite wrong, I must say. It's totally, totally wrong. There are several reasons for this. First of all, it is a little unclear what are the areas in which you cannot be brought together in the family. The way I read it, a list needs to be made. It hasn't been made yet. It must be kept under review. It's a completely insecure legal situation. I do not think we can offer people who have lived abroad and may want to return to Denmark with their spouse, that we cannot say exactly whether they can come back to Denmark or not, that is to say to the area where they may have already had an opportunity or wish to live. I have a very specific example: I will pass it on through the proceedings of the committee where a man has a daughter who has lived in the United States for many years. She's had a co-op apartment right on the edge of one of those areas. He is in complete doubt as to whether she can return to her cohabitation. Well, that's just not gonna work. That is not fair, and that is why we need to clarify much more clearly what areas we are talking about here. But then I also think it is wrong that we should have this housing requirement because, as you said, what is the consequence? The consequence will be that those who want to be reunited will move away from the area. And, of course, there have already been quite significant demands for family reunification. If you believe in the integration requirements laid down in this bill, then there's no reason to have this housing requirement, because then those people could easily be adapted to Denmark. And when you have to expect people who are resourceful, and you have to be in order to have a family reunion, to move away from the vulnerable housing areas, then you get residential areas that, if I may say so, are even more vulnerable. Could that be what this is all about? And vice versa, if you get resourceful people who have been brought together in a vulnerable residential area, you have to assume that it will, like it, mean that they can become role models for others in the residential area in question, precisely because this bill makes strict demands on the ability to integrate. In other words, if you believe in the integration requirements that have been made, then this housing requirement is unnecessary. It is discriminatory, and I think it is out of the question that we say this way: if you live there, you cannot have your spouse with you living there, then you can. We simply cannot be aware of having such legislation and at the same time it is unnecessary. I recognise that there are some issues here that we need to be aware of, and we are willing to look at that too, but this housing requirement is totally wrong in our opinion. So the intentions of this bill will be discussed, but there are elements in what we strongly disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164922	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and then we go to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508164933	Thank you. I have noted with great satisfaction that there is a broad majority in favour of this bill. After all, it is the government's view that Denmark should be an open country for those who can and want to be those who want our social model. The government wants to attract those who can contribute to our society and who can help make a difference, and the government will not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of those of our citizens who have travelled out into the world and who want to return home with their families. Governments have therefore sought to find a broader and also more lasting solution in relation to the foreign dancers who, following the Biao judgment, are no longer able to return to Denmark with their foreign family and thus actively contribute to the Danish society, as well as within the framework of our international obligations. We propose replacing the attachment requirement with a new integration requirement and ensuring that, in the light of the language skills and professional experience and training of both spouses, there is a prospect of the successful integration of the spouse who comes here. At the same time, the government will tighten up other demands in terms of family reunification. That is why I am very pleased that on 7 February this year the government was able to reach an agreement with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on tighter and balanced and also realistic rules for marriage, where integration is at the heart. The aim of the bill is to translate those parts of the agreement that require changes here in the Aliens Act. Firstly, the legislative proposal is to introduce a new integration requirement. This will mean that marriage reunification can normally only be given if the spouses together meet four out of six integration-relevant conditions. The aim is therefore to look at the overall potential of the spouses in terms of integrating the spouse who comes here. The idea behind this is that the resident with strong ties to the Danish society can support the integration of the new spouse in this country, and that, on the other hand, a resourceful spouse who moves here will be more easily integrated than a less resourceful spouse. That is why we have laid down three conditions for each of the spouses and with the requirement that the couple should meet four conditions together. The conditions concern the language skills, professional experience and training of both spouses. We propose that there should be a condition regarding the language skills of the resident. This means that one must have passed the test in Danish 3 or equivalent, and it is so mandatory. In addition, married couples must meet at least three of the remaining five conditions as a whole. There are probably many views on how the six conditions should be formulated, that is to say what to do with and what not to count on. In some of the consultation responses received from the consultation parties, it has also been pointed out that the condition is high on the bar and that the requirements of the resident's Danish knowledge, i.e. Danish 3 or equivalent, should not be mandatory. I believe that, with the integration requirement, we have found a good solution that takes into account several crucial considerations. This applies, among other things, to: the need to respond to the challenges of foreign Danes in relation to the Biao judgment. This also applies to the need to ensure the successful integration of the spouse who comes here. It has just been crucial for us that we ensure successful integration. And we have also stressed the need for the rules to be clear and transparent. I also think it is quite reasonable that we demand that the resident spouse should have passed the test in Danish 3 or equivalent, and, as you know, an essential condition for successful integration is that one can speak the language and that one can commit oneself here. Therefore, I believe that the requirement that the resident spouse must have passed the test in Danish 3 or equivalent must be mandatory. Secondly, the bill is to introduce a visitor requirement. This means that marriage can normally only be given if the spouse who comes here has had at least one lawful stay in Denmark. The visit requirement can be said to continue a component of the existing attachment requirements, which are, moreover, abolished. This ensures that the new spouse has a basic understanding of what society he or she wants to settle in before he or she is brought together in the family. The draft law is also aimed at tightening up the housing requirement so that in future the dwelling should not normally be in a residential area covered by the housing claim list for spouse reunification, and the bill also means that the couple should not normally move to a residential area covered by this list during the period which runs until the new spouse receives a permanent residence permit. There are many opinions about the housing requirement. That is what we have heard here today, and that is why, of course, many answers have been given to that particular point. In the government's optics, however, it must be crucial that in the early days of Denmark the new spouse does not settle in the residential areas which are measured by residents' links with the labour market and the education system, crime, educational level and income are considered to be socially most at risk. The stricter housing requirements can also counteract the formation of parallel societies. In my view, therefore, there are essential reasons for integration which are in favour of such a requirement, and this has been the absolutely essential consideration of the government. The bill also seeks to tighten up the requirement for financial security, so that in future the resident will have to provide financial security for DKK 100,000. versus today 50,000 kr. The aim of the tightening up is to ensure that a marriage partner does not place a burden on the public. At the same time, it will contribute to a general increase in goodwill and also understanding of foreigners in the population. In addition, the bill aims to tighten up the subsequent Danish requirement for the spouse who comes here. This is done by making a new requirement that the newest spouse should also normally pass a Danish test at A2 level within 9 months in addition to the existing requirement to pass the A1 level after 6 months. In this context, the system whereby the security may be gradually reduced is adjusted once the spouse who comes here has passed Danish examinations of increasing difficulty. It may be considered whether the model we have built into the legislative proposal is exactly the right one, and on reflection I do not think it is quite right. I can therefore give an indication that I will make an amendment to the proposed adjustment of the system of gradual reduction of the financial guarantee. With the amendment, we will tighten up the system so that we can only reduce the guarantee by the same amount as today. This means that security could be reduced by 40% in total. versus 80%. in the draft law and in accordance with the rules currently in force. Finally, the draft law is aimed at further and also substantial tightening precisely in relation to the tightening up of the so-called transferred conditions in the rules on family reunification, so that they reflect the existing rules on permanent residence permits. Here, too, I would like to give an indication of an amendment, because the draft law does not provide for the transfer of a claim for a signed declaration of integration and active citizenship to the rules of marriage. That being so, it is because the requirement to sign such a declaration will be met for most people who have already signed the declaration in connection with the fact that they have obtained a permanent residence permit, but I would like to say, on reflection, that there may be cases where the resident has not signed such a declaration. That is why I think it is right, also for the sake of completeness, to transfer this demand for a signed declaration of integration and active citizenship, if that has not already happened. I would like to stress that a number of the existing conditions for marriage are being maintained unchanged. This is, for example, the case. on the 24-year requirement, the self-reliance requirement and the requirement that there should be no forced marriage or pro-marriage. In other words, the austerity we are doing now is on the shoulders of the already strict conditions to be met in order to obtain permission for family reunification to Denmark. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 July this year, and thus the new rules will replace the residence scheme for accompanying families of foreign dancers with certain employment qualifications concluded in spring 2017 as a follow-up to the Biao judgment, as has also been mentioned earlier here today. As you know, that scheme is temporary and only applies until 1 July 2018. That is why it has been important to me that we should at the same time be able to present a model that is consistent with the political desire of the government to address the challenges posed by the attachment requirement for certain foreign dancers. That is exactly what we are doing with the proposed integration requirement. Finally, I think we can only express our thanks for the debate and, of course, it is possible to ask questions now, but also during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170041	Thank you. There are no questions now, so it will have to wait until committee reading. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170101	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170121	I would like to start by saying that the Social Democrats are basically in favour of foreigners earning the right to more of the benefits we pay in Denmark. It has long been a rule in the area of pensions where foreigners do not necessarily receive a full national pension but, on the other hand, a pension calculated on the basis of the time they have been in Denmark. Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal that will also establish such a principle of income in the cash benefits system. The government proposes that you have to have worked 21⁄2 years in the last 10 years in order to be entitled to cash benefits. Otherwise, integration will have to continue to be successful. We can basically support this principle, but since we do not think that the government and the Danish People's Party have found the right level of integration for families with children, we choose to vote blankly on this part of the bill, i.e. neither yes nor no. Social democracy does not want to remove the benefits of integration and roll back legislation, so newly arrived refugees and family members receive full cash assistance from the first day of Denmark. We believe that the benefits of integration have had a positive effect on reducing the influx to Denmark, just as we consider that it has had a positive effect on employment, even though this effect is relatively limited. Conversely, we do not believe that the government has found the right benefits for families with children. There are simply too many children who suffer too much deprivation with the present benefit. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party want to set up a Services Commission. If we win the next parliamentary elections, it will have 12 months to make a bid on how the benefits can be composed so that they take into account all the different needs that should be taken into account, including both maintaining a strong incentive to find a job and that children growing up in Denmark must have proper clothes on the body and food on the table. The second part of the bill has nothing to do with the first part. That is why we are asking for the bill to be split up. We want to support the second part of the draft law, which abolishes the rather strange and overlooked provision that foreigners can avoid having their residence permit withdrawn if they have worked for the same company for two years in Denmark. People who receive protection in Denmark must work as far as possible while they are in our country. It's best for our society. But it is also unsatisfactory for the new arrivals if they are to sit on transfer income and wait until there is peace in their country. However, when their country of origin is calmer and they are no longer at risk of persecution, it is quite natural, of course, that their residence permit should not be extended. Then, of course, they have to go back and build their own country again. That is the whole spirit of refugee policy and conventions that we have endorsed. We must strive for this. And this provision of the Aliens Act is therefore moving in the wrong direction. We are therefore happy to support its removal. Having said that, we are surprised that the Minister does not justify his wish to remove this provision. The observations made by the bill show that the Aliens Act appears to have been in breach of the conventions for years. And from a ministerial letter of February we know that in at least one case it has also been administered without the authorities having properly investigated the matter. Now we are faced with a legislative proposal that confuses two very different issues and with a curiously absent justification for implementing one part of the legislative proposal. We will therefore try to get the Minister's answer to the request made by the Institute for Human Rights at the end of their hearing. Here they recommend that the draft law sets out the considerations of the Ministry and the Government in relation to the chosen solution. With those words and with the expectation that we will be able to split the bill, we will vote blankly on the first part on the principle of profit and yes to the last part.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170502	There is a question from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170504	Thank you. This is a proposal which will mean that more people end up in the so-called integration service, and if you look at the consultation answers, you can see that they from among other things. The LO's page says that cash benefits should be the lowest benefit available in Denmark. On the other hand, it can be seen that Danish Industry and Danish Employers' Association are clapping in their tiny fingers because more people are now coming down in poverty. So I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur: has the Social Democratic Party really got so far in its attempt to go after the Danish People's Party that employers' policy has begun?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170550	We are not of the opinion that cash benefits should be the lowest benefit in Denmark if that is how I understood Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Our desire is not to abolish the benefits of integration, and the accusation that we are implementing this policy or joining this policy in the Social Democratic Party for the sake of employers' policy must then stand at the expense of Enhedslisten. Because that's not our intention. Our intention is to ensure that we have a welfare society that, on the one hand, can hold hands under the weakest in Danish society and, on the other hand, does not have any services that are so attractive that they increase the influx and prevent the possibility of getting people into employment. We are trying to reflect on the fact that children do not have too much deprivation. I also think that a significant part of these discussions is that the level of rent can be very different, for example. in Greater Copenhagen and at Lolland or Falster, and the current ceiling on cash benefits and integration has helped move people on cash benefits away from the areas of the country where there are high rents. These are all the balances we are trying to find. We do not think the government has hit the balance, but we do not think, to put it mildly, that we are simply hitting the balance by removing the integration benefit and thus making the cash benefits the lowest benefit available in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170718	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170720	So the Danish Social Democratic Party, which for decades has made a virtue of fighting poverty, is now in favour of putting people on a service that we know will lower them into poverty, to great praise by the Danish Employers' Association and Danish Industry and contrary to the recommendation of the LO? Then it must be said that the Danish Social Democrats have sunk deeply. I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye: What is the reason why the poverty in Denmark has suddenly become acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170759	I really think that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur is unnecessarily polemical. What I think Enhedslisten should also consider is the situation we have been in in Denmark, with such enormously low employment rates and with so many married couples with a non-western background where both are on cash aid, so these are some crazy numbers we see. It is by far the majority of the married couples who are both on cash benefits, who have a non-western background. No one can be satisfied with that, and certainly not if you are a little red on the edge and have been out celebrating 1 May and supporting that work is the root of all good and that it is therefore devastating for people to be away from the labour market. That is why I think it is unambitious to sit back and say that the solution to these questions is that the integration benefit should be removed and that we should have all the people who come here on a relatively high level of cash aid in an international context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170848	There was one more question. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170855	Now, Mr. Knox... Mattias Tesfaye problematizes the many married couples from third countries who are on cash benefits • that's the vast majority; it's up to 90 percent. by married couples on cash benefits coming from third countries? You accept the premise of the integration benefit it works, you say, but why can we not get a clear answer and preferably an answer that says: yes, we also support the ceiling on cash benefits? In other words, there is not quite any coherence in the argument and, like just throwing it to the corner with such a service commission, I think you have to be a social democrat in order not to be able to see it is extremely thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508170939	First of all, we recognise that the benefits of integration have had an impact on employment. Secondly, however, I also think it would suit the Liberal Alliance to recognise that it has been a very marginal effect, compared with how many children have ended up in families with some rather low amounts of available money. I may have a rather naive idea that the Folketing can come out of this situation, where these benefits to some of the people who have the lowest income in Denmark are being turned up and down, depending on how marginals in a parliamentary election behave. I hope that we can reach a broad agreement which, on the one hand, guarantees the employment policy considerations that I recognise there and the influx considerations that I recognise there, but also the social policy considerations that I also hope the Liberal Alliance recognises there. And our assessment is that this discussion can best be taken on the basis of a thorough Commission study that will clarify this whole area and that we will find some balances that will take better account of the families of children than we see now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171051	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171053	The question is, how marginal are these effects? In other words, it has now been publicised that there seem to have been some methodological errors in the analyses carried out by the central government in relation to the employment effect of the ceiling on cash benefits. So we might be more involved in that. But it still does not change the fact that there is a discrepancy in the Social Democrats' arguments, in other words, in recognising that the benefits of integration have had some positive effects, both in relation to the influx ■ yes, and we are quite in agreement and also in relation to employment, and that we then find that in the real world there is about 90 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. In other words, it simply does not think that we should stick to the ceiling on cash benefits, even though it is exactly the same argument as is used, as we use it and it is good in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171157	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171158	In fact, I do not think it is quite fair to say that this is not a clear answer. If we win the next parliamentary elections and Mette Frederiksen succeeds in creating a government with a Social Democratic Prime Minister, then the current benefits will continue, while there will be a Services Commission that works and gets 12 months to make a bid on how a new benefit system can be linked. During the 12 months we intend to compensate the families of children temporarily because we think there are some children who suffer too much deprivation in families affected by these benefits. After 12 months we hope that a broad majority of the population will be able to achieve a better balance, and here we say that in the political debate we will place emphasis on influx and employment considerations, but also on social policy considerations for children and their opportunities for proper upbringing in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171303	Thank you. The draft law forms part of the implementation of the agreement on lower taxes on labour income and greater deductions for pension payments concluded in February of this year between the Government and the Danish People's Party. We extend the residence requirement from at least 7 out of the last 8 years to at least 9 out of the last 10 years and introduce an employment requirement which, as far as I remember, is equivalent to 2 years and 6 months of full-time employment in the last 10 years. The Danish People's Party's aim in introducing a reinforced residence requirement is that we gradually ensure that Denmark appears as a less attractive country to seek. The aim of the many principles of income is to safeguard the welfare society, and we do so by ensuring that access to Danish welfare services is constantly becoming increasingly difficult for foreigners. The Danish welfare society is for Danes. It has been built up for many generations, and it is reprehensible that outsiders have had such easy access to the same thing that Danes have access to, and that is what we are trying to do something about. We saw in the Danish People's Party that welfare benefits were reserved for Danish citizens, but we, like all other parties, sometimes have to recognise that we cannot collect a majority for all aspects of our policy, but then we try to get it through in other ways, and that is in the light of today's proposal. In addition, the draft law provides for the repeal of Paragraph 9a (a) of the Aliens Act. No. 2, No. 11 on the continuation of residence in Denmark on the basis of the occupational link between a number of foreigners who have been withdrawn or refused the extension of their residence permit. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been calling for for a while, and we have also asked the Minister in the past about it in committee, which means that it will be harder for refugees to stay in Denmark just because they have got a job. It is incredibly important to emphasise that refugees must be sent home, whether they are in employment or not. So I think we have a good bill. This results in various agreements between the Danish People's Party and the government, and we will, of course, vote in favour at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171508	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171520	Thank you, President. In line with the previous bill, this bill is also part of the government's agreement with Dansk Folkeparti on lower taxes on labour income and higher deductions for pension payments. In concrete terms, with this part of the agreement, we will ensure better integration through a greater link with the labour market, but at the same time we will draw the attention of foreigners to the fact that we are making demands here in Denmark before we can have access to transfer income. Unfortunately, we have major problems with the fact that far too many foreigners are on transfer income and, as a result, are not linked to the labour market. That was among other things. one of the reasons why we introduced the integration service. However, we must move forward and ensure that it is even more worthwhile to get into employment. This is precisely why we are proposing to extend the residence requirement by means of this bill. This is based on the desire to create a greater economic incentive to move from integration to real employment. Just look at the flow of refugees in 2015, where it was very, very clear that the people who are looking up against Europe have a surprisingly clear picture in which countries it is easier to get high social benefits, and there we do not want to be high on the list of people smugglers' favourite destinations in Denmark. That is why I am convinced that this bill will mean that we will have higher employment among foreigners and thus better integration. Thus, the Left can agree to the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171657	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171707	Thank you. With this bill, the government will lower even more people into poverty by putting them on the so-called integration service. This has nothing to do with integration, but will lead to people trying to get an education to get an opportunity to get a job or get a better job, being enormously hard-pressed economically, and this will mean that even more children will grow up in poverty in our country. It encounters harsh criticism from a large number of organisations, including the LO, which do not consider it necessary and which points out that cash assistance should be the lowest performance in a welfare society such as Denmark. The Danish Social Advisor Association points out that people with health problems with reduced benefits will be thrown into a difficult struggle to get the money to pass. It is neither good for their health, integration nor for the opportunity to get to work. The Danish Counselling Association points out that this will mean that people trying to train will be punished. There are also criticisms from the FTF, the Institute for Human Rights, the Red Cross, Danish Refugee Aid and many others. On the other hand, there is support from the Danish Employers' Association and Danish Industry. Perhaps that does not say so little about this proposal. This proposal will lower people into poverty, it will lower people into desperation, and it risks having a spill-over effect on the rest of our society, as the bottom is lowered and thus increasing insecurity for all of us. It is purely employers' policy, and it is completely incomprehensible to me that social democracy cannot clearly reject the proposal. Not least, it is quite grotesque that the government is continuing this failed policy. In a study from the Rockwool Foundation, it has been established in the past that the so-called start-up aid had an infinitely small effect in terms of getting people into work. On the other hand, it was extremely effective in lowering children and adults into poverty. The Enhedslisten is against the proposal. We want to combat poverty and get poverty and insecurity abolished in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171929	There's a question. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508171931	I often think we get some excellent speeches that tell us all that Enhedslisten is against, and that sometimes there is little missing, what Enhedslisten is in favour of. Now I'm in complete doubt. In other words, Enhedslisten is in favour of the fact that we have the principle of profit, for example. the pension area, where we have a fraction pension, or is it the view of Enhedslisten that no matter how long you have been in Denmark, you have to have a full retirement pension when you reach retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172004	I think it's important not to mix things up. In the area of pensions, we are in favour of making profits. We also do this for a number of other services, not least if we talk about people coming from EU countries. But what we are very much talking about here is newly arrived refugees, and they should not live as second-class citizens in our country. We are clearly opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172033	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172034	So, we know that almost nine out of ten married couples in Denmark who are on cash benefits are people with non-western backgrounds. This is a huge social disaster. None of us can be in favour of that. Here is a bill which is about the fact that when you come here, you have to have been in employment for two and a half years within a 10-year period, 10 years after you have arrived, in order to be able to get away from the integration benefit and on to cash benefits. Does the Enhedslisten not admit that such a carrot might be part of what it takes to get people into employment? We agree that the integration benefit for some families is too low, but can Enhedslisten not support the very principle that there is some sort of income requirement for accessing cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172130	Well, I'm not buying that if people are punished and whipped, there'll be work for them. We have heard from today's debate that the Liberal Alliance has also embraced the Socialist rapporteur with warm applause and praise, because these are new tones we hear from the Social Democrats, who have otherwise for decades been fighting poverty in Denmark, but who are now suddenly opening up to the fact that it can be effective to lower people into poverty in order to get them into work. We in Enhedslisten are opposed to that. We want to combat poverty in Denmark and we want to combat poverty in Denmark, both because it is bad for the individual who is affected by poverty and because it is a problem for all of us if people live in poverty and desperation in our societies. For that brings down the bar for what they will accept, and it is a gift to employers, but a huge problem for employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172232	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172241	With the proposal we tighten access to Danish cash benefits etc. The existing residence requirement is tightened, so you now have to stay in Denmark for 9 out of 10 years to be eligible for cash benefits, and you introduce a new employment requirement, so you must have had 21⁄2 years of employment during the same 10-year period. We in the Liberal Alliance think it is good that it is difficult for foreigners to access Danish services. In Denmark we have a level of performance that is very high compared to other countries. The high benefits paid by Danes should, as a rule, be for Danes or foreigners who have also contributed. We see no reason why the high benefits should benefit all sorts of others. It is only on the Danish left that one can see the logic of Denmark being the aid office for the rest of the world. This, of course, also affects Danes, and it is a pity, but according to convention logic it is discriminatory to treat your own nationals differently from foreign nationals in relation to these benefits. Convention logic is not always logical, but it is more important that Danish citizens do not have to pay very high benefits to large groups of foreigners than to ensure Danes' right to travel out into the world for a longer period and then could return home to a Danish cash aid. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172403	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172407	It is just a very short question, because we have been a little concerned about something of the same thing that I can hear maybe worries the Liberal Alliance, namely those who have left the country and come home and suddenly have to experience that they are going to an integration benefit. Could it perhaps be imagined that the limit now amended by the law of 7 out of 8 years, which is now being changed to 9 out of 10 years, as far as I remember, might be 9 out of 11 years or 10 out of 12 years, to ensure that people who have been out 1 year or 11⁄2, are not covered by these rules? Has the Liberal Alliance considered that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172441	As I said in my speech, these are some considerations we have made, but the fact that we do not have to pay for a large number of foreigners in relation to high benefits has given us greater weight. With regard to whether the border should be elsewhere, I would say that we have actually thought that it was here very well and that is why we support this proposal. But if we could embrace more Danes without opening up larger groups of foreigners with a different cut, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172512	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172536	Thank you. After all, this bill is about tightening up, so more people come on integration benefits. The former rapporteurs have mentioned what needs to be done. It will extend the residence requirement, i.e. the requirement that in order to be able to receive a public allowance you must have resided for at least 7 out of the last 8 years, so that in future the residence requirement will be at least 9 out of the last 10 years. In addition, an employment requirement will be introduced which will total 2 years and 6 months of full-time employment over the last 10 years. The fight for me here is about the integration service. I mean, we were against when the integration service was introduced. There was massive criticism from various organisations, NGOs, UNHCR and the Institute for Human Rights that the integration service does not help anyone, that it sends families and children into poverty. And that's why it's clear that we can't back this bill either, because it tightens the rules as to when you can get this integration benefit. We would very much like to go the other way, and that is why we also proposed in our draft budget, which we call a future in balance, the abolition of the integration benefit and, in concrete terms, the investment of 1.76 billion. kr. Until 2021. We're still holding on to that, and that's why we can't back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172715	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172727	Thank you. This bill has been examined by several rapporteurs before me. These are austerity measures that will now lead to more on integration benefits, and for us more on integration benefits are the same as more poor children, more poor families, and we are against poverty. We in the Radical Left want to fight poverty. We do not want an underclass in Denmark, and that is, no matter what color or ethnicity it is. It does not benefit Denmark and Danish society that we are divided into a group of poor people and saw the rest of us. We must combat this, and then we must have expectations of people who come here to contribute, including those who are here and who have been here for a long time. I think that, and I would like to give the government that one of its greatest victories is that it has succeeded in basic integration training; that we have got many, many more refugees into work. It should have happened a long time ago. That is where action must be taken. Can we lower the bar in relation to the entry into the labour market with fast expectations, preferably from day one we can succeed much better. And that is what we need to focus on, namely how we manage to solve the task, rather than making people poor. That really is the big difference in Denmark and the choice we face: should we beat more people on top of our heads, make children poor? Do we believe that this is the future and the way to integrate and succeed in getting people into employment? We have not done so up to now, and there is no indication that it will help anything, on the contrary. And we're going to keep working to make sure that we have expectations of people, that they contribute and that they do so quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172925	There is a question from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508172929	I would like to start by saying that the Social Democratic Party agrees that it is difficult to support this bill because, unfortunately, everything else must mean that there will be some families, some citizens who will not reach 21⁄2 years of work, and thus more children who will grow up on the integration benefit that is not satisfactory. But that is why I would like to hear the rather more fundamental position of the Radical Left. Let us now assume that we had had an integration benefit at a level that was better • will the Radical Left then support an employment requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173006	In general terms, as far as benefits are concerned, we are not, of course, aware of the rapporteur's dogmatic attitude. We would like to look at how services can be organized in the best possible way. We do not have the attitude that everything should be as it was and that we should always have the same benefits for everyone. But where it really is in principle for us is, in relation to whether it makes people poor; whether it helps to contribute to society; whether it makes children and families poor; and whether we distinguish about the ethnicity that people have. Because we don't like that. We do not want any ethnic underclass in Denmark. These are the principles for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173050	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173052	But I actually interpret this as supporting the very principle of an employment requirement. Then I would like to ask: does the Radical Left really want to abolish the integration benefit and thus ensure that new arrivals of refugees and family members would have to go to cash aid if they do not have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173112	Yeah. We do not want poor children and families in Denmark, and that brings with it the benefits of integration today. We are completely undogmatic about setting up the overall system of benefits in a different way, with easier access to the labour market, lower barriers, as the Igu succeeded. After all, we must recognise that the times when Social Democracy has been in government and where we have been there have not been able to lower it down in the labour market have not been successful. I think we should do much, much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173143	Then there is a question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173148	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said in her speech that they could not support the proposal because it was about skin colour and ethnicity. Then I just want to know whether Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen can refer to a place in the bill where skin color is mentioned, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173204	I said that it was about poor children, and we do not want any underclass in Denmark, and that is no matter what colour or ethnicity such is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173214	It's just that Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen more than suggested that this proposal was about skin colour and ethnicity, and Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen does so in other contexts too, and then I just want to know if Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen can refer to it, but I have to understand that Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen cannot go somewhere in the bill where it appears that it is about people's skin color.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173234	I didn't suggest that, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173236	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173239	Thank you. I would like to say that I am very sorry about the way in which the rapporteur refers to the benefits of integration as something evil. In other words, does the rapporteur recognise that the integration service has made a significant contribution to the fact that there are not as many asylum seekers coming to Denmark and that the integration service has contributed significantly to the fact that more people have entered employment as in a significant number of newly arrived refugees who have entered employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173305	I do not think the rapporteur can prove that. What I recognise is that the government has taken an excellent initiative with the tripartite agreement and basic integration training, which now shows that turning it around and saying that everyone is ready for work when they come was a really good initiative rather than the clienting of people who come here. I think that is absolutely, absolutely essential and really important for a lot more people to get to work. We must continue along this path. I think that the price of reducing benefits as significantly as the government has done is very, very high, because it brings with it a great many poor families and poor children, and these are the consequences we cannot see yet for good reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173351	After all, we believe that it is much, much better for children to have a father and a mother who wakes up in the morning and goes into the labour market and earns their own money and participates in society. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the higher the social benefits, the less the incentive to actually go out and take a job on the Danish labour market, especially if you have come here from a country where language, where culture is different, where it may be tempting just to sit parked on social benefits for a long time, because social benefits are so high that you do not have to work? Does the rapporteur not recognise that, of course, an incentive is being created by the fact that social benefits are not so high that it is better to go out and get a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173437	I have not met a single fugitive who came here the first day and said: When will I get a social benefit? I have met refugees who came here and said: when can I get to work and contribute here, but first I have to learn the language? What is my entry into the labour market? I believe that this is a fundamental approach that separates the rapporteur and me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173456	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173509	Anyone who can work has to work. Of course. Work is good for the individual, it is good for the family, and it is good for society. Therefore, I also think that the Danish Social Advisor Association contributes well in their hearing response by writing: "DS agrees with the consideration that everyone who can should work and that integration finds places in the labour market to a large extent. DS does not agree that it is not worthwhile to work, and we believe that this proposal introduces a permanent poverty benefit for a group of people in society with major consequences both for adults and, to a large extent, for their children. I guess that's how it is. The government is a government that has the extended driving licence for new languages. They call it integration benefits, but they set their feet for integration. It's called starter help, even if it doesn't start anything. SF is against the integration service, and this bill will send even more people down on that service. However, the SF is actually in principle in favour of income rules, but we then believe that the proposed austerity is beyond what is reasonable. We can also see that the Council of Social Affairs Ministers, in their hearing answer, says: "As the Council of Social Affairs Ministers has referred repeatedly, it has been documented, among other things, by the VIVE • National Centre for Social Welfare that families on low benefits suffer marked deprivation. This applies to both material deprivation and deprivation in terms of reduced quality of life for both adults and children. At the same time, it has been documented that the majority outside the labour market with problems other than unemployment cannot respond to economic incentives due to. sickness or social problems. • The road to education and to jobs is hand-held social policy, it is investment in education and it is a collaboration with companies so that people actually get into employment. SF is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173721	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508173736	Thank you for the debate on this bill. Much of the criticism of this bill is, of course, about why we extend the residence requirement and the justification for introducing an employment requirement. Let me just take a small step back, for the government introduced the integration benefit in 2015, and I firmly believe that the integration benefit, along with the 225-hour rule and also the cash aid ceiling, has been the right way to go. In concrete terms, we can see that the employment of refugees and family members who have been here for three years has risen from 20%. at the end of 2015 until now 38 per cent, and so I have no doubt that a greater gain from working is, of course, part of the explanation. And I find it difficult to understand that some people think that it is sensible to grant refugees full cash aid from day one when they set foot on Danish soil, because then, in my opinion, we are quite sure that we have laid the foundation stone for a clientisation and also for inaction. There should be no doubt that when the government proposes an employment requirement of 21⁄2 years, we want to send a very clear signal that it must be a prerequisite for access to education and cash assistance that an active contribution has been made to Danish society. The government does not want to be able to obtain higher benefits simply by waiting. You have to earn them. One must give before one can enjoy, and we have all too often seen examples that too many have stuck in the system of benefits because it has simply been too easy and it has been too convenient. No, the starting point must be clearly that you contribute and that you will support yourself and your family. With the bill, we are now ensuring that it is more profitable to work. That is the incentive we as a government want to support by introducing the employment requirement. We also propose extending the residence requirement, thereby promoting the economic incentive to move from integration benefit to employment. Overall, I believe that the government's tight immigration policy works and that the tight immigration policy also creates a basis for improving integration. This applies not least to the strengthened incentives for a more firm link with the Danish labour market. I look forward to the further examination of this matter and, of course, there is an opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174045	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174049	When we read this bill, we were particularly interested in the latter part, the abolition of the special scheme which allows people who should actually have their residence permit withdrawn to keep it if they have had 24 months of work in the same company. There is one thing that has puzzled us and that I can also see in their hearing answers that has puzzled the Institute for Human Rights, namely that there is no real reason why the system should be abolished. We can actually support it, but it just seems very strange that a government is putting forward a legislative proposal without a political justification. So can the Minister tell us why the Minister has chosen it? There was also the possibility of applying the rule both to those who had resided on Sections 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174143	Our starting point is that refugees must work and they must support themselves while they are in Denmark. But that does not change the fact that, when conditions in the countries of origin of the refugees allow it, they must, of course, return home, and they must, because they have to rebuild their country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174203	Yes, but we can of course read from the draft law that we have apparently had a provision in our alien law for years that has been in breach of the conventions and that at least one case has been administered in breach of the conventions. And it's not because I have to stand here and play smart, because I didn't know anything about this either until we heard about Mohamed from the slaughterhouse in Thisted, and I was also surprised when we heard about that provision. But is the Minister really here saying that there was no one in the Ministry who knew that we were administering in violation of the law? And is it therefore only a political consideration to remove the provision in the way it is presented here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174252	I can at least say quite clearly that I was not aware of it. And quite basically, I think it must be the case that when the opportunity arises, of course you have to go back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174304	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174320	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to begin with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174346	The government wants Denmark to be able to attract skilled workers and that companies have easy access to highly qualified labour. I also said that just over a year ago when we last stood in the Chamber to deal with a draft law to change the system of amounts in a negative way from my point of view, and I think that the year before that I also said something quite similar. In other words, we have had this discussion before. The government's line is clear: we need a two-legged immigration policy. Denmark must have a strict and consistent foreign policy towards those refugees and migrants who, I believe, are at risk of weakening the values and cohesion here and, as we can also see, a significant deficit in public finances. At the same time, however, we must be open to foreigners who can and will work and who will contribute to our society and which, of course, also brings a significant benefit to Denmark. In 2015, the total net contribution of persons to the scheme amounted to just over 1.2 billion. kr. Each worker contributed DKr 283,000. annual, while the average contribution from Danes in employment was only 156,300 DKK. It must simply be quite clear to everyone that this is a significant gain for Denmark. Demand for skilled labour is currently high, and it will cost both growth and jobs if companies cannot get the manpower they need. We must support the positive development that the Danish economy and employment have had in recent years; on the other hand, we must not oppose it, as this proposal has proposed. If we do not ensure that the best opportunities and conditions for businesses are created, then economic development and therefore our common welfare may ultimately be affected. If this bill is adopted, it will make it expensive and difficult to recruit through the money system, and I think that we should maintain the system that only has winners and gains, thus taking advantage of the positive economic climate that we are currently in. I think that must be in Denmark's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174631	There is a question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174634	Thank you. After all, we have tightened the rules for recruitment of foreign labour, and I believe that every time the government, Danish Industry and Danish Employers' Association have said that if we do, Denmark will stop and the companies will almost escape from Denmark. However, Denmark still stands, despite the fact that several amendments to the Aliens Act have been adopted in relation to foreign labour. And if this proposal is adopted, I believe that Denmark will continue. I'll almost guarantee it. Then I would like to ask what the problem with this bill really is. For everyone is running around saying that business organizations lack foreign labour, and that is what they say, whether things are going well or bad with the economy. The bill suggests that if they can prove that they have searched for the labour force in Denmark and they cannot find the labour force, then they will be allowed to pick it up on the amount scheme. Is it not very reasonable to say to the companies: If you can prove that you lack the labour force and cannot find it in Denmark, that you have searched for it in vain, then you are allowed to pick it up on, in this case, the amount scheme. Is it not really a very balanced view to have in relation to business and their ability to acquire labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174742	It is extremely rare, to be quite honest, that I disagree very much with Mr Tugendhat. Martin Henriksen. But I am quite simply, exactly when it comes here. I simply do not believe that it may be in Denmark's interest to make this more difficult for companies. And it is true that Denmark would, of course, also last tomorrow if this were implemented. But the question is whether it would be an advantage for Denmark as a whole or whether it would be a disadvantage. And there is my clear assessment, therefore, that this would simply be a disadvantage, because it is a question of companies not only being able to recruit labour, but also being able to recruit skilled labour. And that is why I believe that this will make it unnecessarily difficult, and it will also mean that companies will not always be able to get the best workforce. Just to return to the figures that I mentioned, it is therefore the case that each worker who comes here on the amount scheme contributes DKr 283 000. Every year to Danish society, whereas a Dane in employment contributes about DKK 156,000. And that's a big difference. So I kind of think that mr. Martin Henriksen should be pleased that the companies also recruit labour abroad, which is stable and good, and which helps to support the Danish economy and thus also create more jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508174911	It may well be that there have been some completely new calculations that I have not seen. Well, then it has to be that way. But in the calculations that come from the Ministry of Finance, the Danish Employers' Association and others on a regular basis, which show that these people contribute so much and so much to the Treasury, one forgets very skilfully to go into what it costs in those cases where a Dane is kept out of the labour market, because the Dane may not be able to compete on that salary, because one might underpay the foreign labour force. You can see situations in which you pay foreign labour ■ it can be in relation to craftsmen; it can also be in relation to Danes who have taken a long-term university education; it is true in various areas. But you forget that in those calculations. I really think that's what I'm gonna do. But I think the minister still owes it to him to answer what the problem is, to make legislation that says that if companies can prove that they lack labour they claim that they lack labour, not all companies, I also know sensible people who do business, but many claim that Danish Industry is allowed to pick up the labour force. Is that not very reasonable and sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175020-2	Again, no, I do not think that this would be an advantage for Denmark as a whole and, of course, not for companies either. But when it is not an advantage, it is not just a matter of lack of labour, but also of lack of skilled labour. And there it is now just that we are not enough; there are simply not enough hands to get the best qualified labour as well. So the government is against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175052	Thank you to the Minister, and the next one on the platform is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175110	At a time of increasing migration, it is quite natural that a welfare society like Denmark is very aware of who gets a residence and work permit here. We cannot maintain tax-financed health care, schooling and benefits for the sick, the elderly and the unemployed if the borders are too open. Nor can we maintain a labour market with decent wages for unskilled and skilled workers if the limits are too open. That is why social democracy is in favour of controlled immigration. We can't just open the locks. Even if the persons concerned have obtained employment in Denmark in advance and can therefore support themselves. This has been the reason why the Social Democratic Party, together with the SF and the Danish People's Party, have tightened the money regime and abolished the greencard system. And we have done so to protect the skilled and unskilled labour market and to prevent these schemes from being used as a back door for too much immigration into Denmark. There are currently about 5,000-6,000 foreigners in Denmark on the amount regime, and of them comes a majority from either China, India or the United States. With this bill, the Danish People's Party wants to tighten up the requirements of the system of amounts further, on the one hand by introducing different limits on how much to earn in order to get here, depending on the position to be contested in Denmark, on the other hand by requiring companies to be able to prove that they have sought the labour force in Denmark first. Social democracy cannot support those proposals. For us, it has been important to protect the traditional LO labour market from excessive immigration and wage pressures. But we have no problem with an Indian IT specialist coming to Denmark and earning DKK 500,000. per year, even if the average of such IT specialists should be 600,000 DKK. a year. That is why we fear that too many limits can be too bureaucratic. The proposers themselves write that this will result in increased financial costs and administration for both authorities and companies, and this cannot be of benefit to our society. In addition, we would always like to encourage companies to seek the labour force in this country before we start bringing foreigners to Denmark. But we do not want to commit these companies to the same thing in the Aliens Act. Whether companies write it on their website or not, I do not think it will be crucial and, to put it mildly, we do not need to have more papers going around between companies and the authorities. Our task as Parliament is to ensure that the framework of these opportunities to recruit international labour is not bureaucratic, that they protect the Danish labour market from wage dumping, and that the Danish population, through an active employment and education policy, also acquires the required qualifications. And in those words, the Social Democrats will reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175352	There is a question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175355	I just need to know if I got it right. Is it the view of the Social Democrats that if an IT specialist comes in from India who goes in and gets a job at a lower salary than what a typical Danish IT specialist would get, that's all right? I must understand that does not bother social democracy. I think it's kind of a funny attitude to have. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is wrong to outbid the Danish labour market, so that it will be difficult for Danes to compete with, for example, foreign labour. We have that view in relation to craftsmen, in relation to unskilled workers, and we have that view in relation to Danes who have taken a long education at the university. I just want to know if I understand it correctly, namely that it is not a problem if an IT specialist from India arrives at a lower salary which thus outperforms a Danish IT specialist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175451	When we have supported the raising of the threshold and the incorporation of a regulatory mechanism into the legislation, and when we have supported the abolition of the green card system, it is in order to protect primarily the unskilled and skilled labour market, because we believe that it is here that there are problems with social dumping. We do not have the experience that Danish IT specialists who earn 600,000 DKK. is subject to social dumping per year. That is why I think we should be careful not to solve problems that do not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175521-2	Yeah, yeah, but whether there's wage dumping at one end or at the other end of the pay scale, I guess that's a problem. It is also wrong if we spend a lot of money paying for some Danes who can take long courses at universities, and then they risk being outperformed by cheaply trained labour from abroad. I guess that doesn't make any sense either. Frankly, I thought that the Social Democratic Party agreed with HK/Privat and FTF, which welcomes the bill. Social democracy is usually good friends with at least the trade union movement, as far as I remember. Another part of the bill is that you have to prove that you lack the labour force before you are allowed to pick it up for Denmark. Does the Social Democratic Party not think that it is reasonable that if you as a company want to bring foreign labour to Denmark, you can prove that you have tried to find that labour in Denmark before you start to pick up labour outside the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175622	First of all, on wage dumping, I think we should be careful to water down the concepts. When we talk about social dumping at home, it is to ensure that people with ordinary skilled and unskilled wages can feed a family with decent wages. It is not to ensure that an IT specialist who earns 600,000 kroner should not be outperformed by an Indian IT specialist who earns 550,000. I just don't think it is. The Danish social problem is not that highly qualified Danes earning DKK 600,000. per hour per year, are competed out of the labour market by Indians and Pakistanis, who earn 500,000. So it's not a problem I can see. Secondly, regarding the fact that posts must always be opened up, I would like to say that I think it is good practice for a company to apply in its own country before seeking in other countries. But I think we need to be careful in legislation to commit companies to something that I think will end up a little like an Anders Duck model, where Novo Nordisk writes on their website, that they are looking for someone who is not so qualified to seek, and then they can use it as an argument to say that they have to bring people in from the outside. I mean, the labour market doesn't work that way. I think that instead of discussing whether the system of amounts works as it should, whether the limit is as it should be, and then using a low-bureaucratic basis for how we recruit international labour, rather than regulating down to detail how companies should use these schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175802	Then there are questions from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175805	Well, I have to say, I'm somewhat puzzled by sir. Mattias Tesfaye's argument. Either it is a problem for the agreement to be outlawed because there is social dumping or it is not a problem. Where's the limit? How much pay should you pay or how low a salary should you get before the Socialists think it is a problem that someone is coming and working under the agreement? I would say that it is important, in order to maintain orderly conditions throughout the Danish labour market, that we stand firm, that there must be contractual relationships for everyone and that wage levels must be followed. That is also why, among other things, HK Private has said that they support this proposal. So I wonder, and I would just like to know where the Socialist Group is going, when it is okay to have wage dumping and how high the wage rate should be, so that it is okay for wages to be dumped.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508175906	I do not think it is fair to say that wages over DKr 418 000, because that must be the basis for this whole proposal, is in danger of undermining the agreement. At least I'd like to see what kind of deal it was. 418,000 kroner. is over 200 kroner. It's an hour. What we are discussing now is on the basis of these DISCO codes, and in order to be able to get international qualified labour to Denmark, you risk smoking over DKK 500,000. or 600,000 kroner, and then I think it is quite unreasonable and disproportionately to bring social dumping into the discussion. So if the Enhedslisten asks exactly where the limit should be, we can say on the part of the Social Democrats that we actually think that the current limit is about where it should be. We're at just under 418,000 kroner. We can then understand from the government that they would like to put it down, and we can understand from at least the Danish People's Party that they would like to set it up while we think it is about where it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180010	Well, it's not really going to be put up with this proposal. This proposal calls for the average wage to be followed in this area, and that is what HK Private says: it will be good because it prevents dumping. Then it sounds from the Social Democrats: we don't care about that. Is it really the message of the Social Democratic Party specifically to HK Private that they support this proposal, that you do not care about dumping in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180046	I think it is a matter of balancing the various considerations in a balanced way, but I do not think this proposal does. One consideration we have to take is that there is international recruitment of qualified workers, because Danish industry and therefore also Danish employees have an interest in this, as it also helps to create employment at home. The second concern is the protection of the part of the labour market which will be subject to social dumping if only everyone who could work in Denmark was opened up. So where can that limit go? We think 418,000 kroner. is an excellent place and we think it would be too harmful for Danish industry to end up with a limit in some areas of DKK 500,000. or 600,000 kroner, because I think it's too violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180132	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180143	The draft law here is a continuation of the rather incredible saga that has been about the payment scheme... a saga that is increasingly straining our businesses and shutting off the labour that our companies are looking for. In the Left, we very often agree with the Danish People's Party that we must pursue a strict and consistent immigration policy in the area of asylum. Through the asylum area we have learned that too many people have come here with a different view of society, from a different culture and which all too often end up outside the labour market. But in the Left we are also convinced that people who come here legally to work because our companies demand them are a good thing for the Danish economy and also for Danish society. One of the key conditions for growth is that our companies can get the manpower they lack, and they do so very much on days like today. The Danish economy has not been better for a long time, and when you talk to companies, you hear: We lack qualified labour, we cannot always get it in Denmark. Compared to that, this bill hits where it hurts the most. It affects one of the areas requiring specialization and knowledge. Here we just have to recognise that a small country like Denmark cannot always offer its companies the Danish labour force they need. We live in a society of increased trade, including international trade, so that the coming of people from other countries to contribute to our businesses is a good thing. I fear that if we continue to tighten the screw against our companies, we risk simply moving away to get the employees they need. In addition, I do not really understand this somewhat suspicious and almost hetz-like atmosphere one wants to drive against our companies, by requiring them to tell them who they have hired and why. Every company has the natural premise that, of course, the person best qualified is the person who fits best into the company. Sometimes it is a person with international qualifications, sometimes it is a Dane. That is why I am also glad that the Social Democratic Party is no longer following this race to shut Denmark off from labour and that, fortunately, there is no picture that there is broad support for this proposal. The Left cannot support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180418	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180422	It's because Mr. Marcus Knuth says that the Danish People's Party will close Denmark off for foreign labour. That's not true. We are here with a bill which is about the fact that if companies can prove that they have tried to find the labour force in Denmark, then they can pick up the foreign labour force. Why is that unreasonable? I simply find it difficult to understand why this is unreasonable. For many, many years, Danish companies have said not all Danish companies, because there are also reasonable people who operate in Denmark, but Dansk Industri and Dansk Arbejdsforening have said that they lack labour, whether they are doing well with the economy or badly. What's so wrong with saying that we're making a law that says that if you can prove that you're missing it, then you can get it? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180511	Overall, I believe that our companies should have the greatest possible freedom under the responsibility of recruiting and acting in the Danish economy. And why should some obstacles be raised for companies, so that they suddenly have to spend time, resources and bureaucracy documenting why they have hired people? If it is the case that they have a bunch of applicants and there is a foreigner who they think is the best qualified and perhaps better qualified than others in the pile, then I think they should have the opportunity to hire that person. It is therefore an international world we live in where people sometimes demand that, for example, there should be an international community. someone who knows something about the American market or the Japanese market. And then I think that companies should have the freedom to be able to hire as they please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180602	That doesn't prevent this bill either, because if you want to hire on the basis of qualifications, you can look for it. It might well be that there was someone in Denmark who had experience from the Japanese market or the American market. There are plenty of business people in Denmark doing business in some of these countries, so it is not unthinkable that there are people in Denmark who have the experiences and qualifications. Then why shouldn't they have the chance to get that job? And if you can't find that labour in Denmark, you get the opportunity to pick it up in other countries. I still think that Mr. Marcus Knuth owes it to answer why it is actually unreasonable. And then I have to understand it that way, sir. Marcus Knuth that there should be no obstacles in relation to whom companies want to hire. Does this mean that it is the view of the Left that there should be no obstacles at all on the part of the legislator in relation to whom to hire? If it were the views of the Left and it were put into practice, it would mean a significant increase in total immigration to Denmark, for there are then plenty of highly educated foreigners, lots of craftsmen out in the big world who will accept to go to some working conditions and some wages that are much lower than what is known in Denmark and the rest of Europe. So if you led it, as Mr. Marcus Knuth says, in life, it would mean a marked increase in immigration to Denmark, perhaps on many hundreds of thousands of people. But is it really the policy of the Left that if just some companies say that we are missing, then they just have to per. Automatically have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180723	Now I think there are some words in my mouth that I have neither said nor put up with. Of course there must be a framework, of course there must be a system. But I think this is setting the bar so high that it is simply not positive for companies in Denmark. Companies in Denmark do not have any secret malicious desire to employ only foreigners, so that Danish workers are marginalised. In other words, that is what is implicitly said by the fact that we must start forcing companies to prove that they have not been able to recruit a Dane. Companies will always hire the person they think is best for their business. Of course, it is in the interest of every company in Denmark also to have people who can Danish as a starting point, unless there is something else that speaks for it. So they form an overall picture of what they need, and the overall picture I think they should have the opportunity to preserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180825	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one on the platform is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180832	Thank you. The Enhedslisten agrees with the aim of the proposal, namely that the limit should only be used when it is not possible to obtain the relevant labour force in Denmark. It is, of course, very good and fine if experts can come to the country, but it does not, of course, last if the type of experts requested are already in the unemployment queue at home. In this context, I have to say that the Minister's argument that this bill will prevent companies from acquiring skilled labour is simply not understandable. For companies will have the workforce. They just need to make sure that there is no unemployment in the unemployment queue to take up the job before calling for a foreign expert in this area. To the extent that foreign experts come to the country, they must, of course, be paid on equal terms with their colleagues in the field, otherwise we do not have effective safeguards against social dumping. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is a principle that there must be a level playing field for everyone in the labour market, otherwise we risk dumping and pressure on pay and working conditions. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508180957	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181013	In our view, this proposal is going the wrong way. DF and Social Democracy have already tightened access for the people who actually come here and contribute to Danish society. In our view, if people can get a job with the relatively good salary on which the money system is based, they should be quite welcome. Some types of immigration have major negative consequences for Denmark. It's just not this type of immigration. And that is not exactly because it is teeming with examples that people on the money system are undermining the Danish economy. Economically, this type of immigration is a huge surplus business for Denmark. Sometimes the argument is used that you can hire unemployed Danes instead of foreigners. This approach is based on a totally misguided view of the labour market. The labour market is not just a market in which one labour force can be as good as the other. It is a highly segmented market in skills, experience and education. If you need a foreign engineer, you can't just hire a Danish truck driver. A number of industries lack labour, and no matter how many obstacles we put in the way of skilled foreigners, these jobs are not filled with Danes on cash benefits. Of course, we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181140	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181203	With this bill, the Danish People's Party wants to change the reward scheme in the Aliens Act. As I read it, they will introduce two changes to the system of amounts. The wage claim shall be adjusted so that the minimum wage corresponds to the average remuneration within the professional group to which the foreigner belongs. After all, today there is a minimum of 400,000 kroner. with regulation that applies to everyone, and the way DF sets up for this, this average wage should apply to the individual professional group. The argument is that it is easy for high-paid professional groups to meet the requirement, and therefore DF considers that professionally regulated wage requirements will ensure that wage formation for these groups is not affected downwards. That is one part of the proposal. The second part of the proposal is that documentation requirements should be introduced for companies wishing to hire a foreigner through the payment scheme, so that the company has to demonstrate that it has not been possible to find qualified labour through job postings in Denmark. Such documentation requirements do not exist today. In the alternative, we are not in favour of this bill, and we are not because we want to be able to attract foreign labour. Nor did we vote in favour of the DKK 400 000 scheme that was introduced. We think it is positive that there will be foreign labour in Denmark. Of course, you have to meet the conditions of employment in the areas where you are employed. In other words, if there is an agreement, then of course you have to have an agreement. But we think it is really positive for Denmark that foreign workers come to Denmark and that those who come do a very good job. After all, we are very much opposed to shutting ourselves down, and this is what we think this contributes to. In addition, there is a huge amount of bureaucratic work that is being put down on companies in order to prove that they have not been able to find others and there is also the fact that it has to be an average remuneration within the relevant professional group. So we're against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181420	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181428	Thank you. You could almost say that this bill, which is a bill from a party outside the government, is such a lex Tican. In other words, one has seen oneself angry at an entire slaughterhouse because they have made an extraordinary effort to do something for integration and employ a skilled employee who also turns out to be so skilled and flexible that he can work at other times for a higher salary. I think it is strange that people want to obstruct the work of a slaughterhouse. It is the employer, colleagues, employees who have done everything we say is right: to get people started and get them started as soon as possible. That is what Tican has shown you can do: we can get people to work, and we can even get them to work at a high salary because they are skilled. I would like to have a lot more of that, and I would like to reward it instead of punishing it when Danish employers and Danish colleagues take that responsibility, which is why we in the Radical Left are, of course, against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181557	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181609	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising a very relevant debate, because it is good that we are always awake when it comes to safeguarding the Danish labour market. This is also why SF, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, has already regulated the limit on the amount, but at the same time it is quite relevant perhaps to change it to what the Danish People's Party is proposing, namely that it is adapted to the individual industries. However, we also believe that our last legislative proposal, which is only a year old, should be allowed to work, and it might be a little quick to change it again, but still it is a good starting point that the Danish People's Party lays down, that companies should first search for labour in this country before they apply abroad. We may have some doubts as to whether bureaucracy in terms of having it documented is in line with the results. However, SF supports the principles set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181718	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508181738	Thank you. I think I will begin by making a few comments to some of the rapporteur's speeches that have been made. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that I thought it was a rather special remark, compared to the fact that IT specialists from India could get less in salary than a Danish IT specialist. I don't see that as a problem. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is, of course, a problem, I have to say. There is no reason why we should pay for citizens in Denmark to have an education and not to use it. After all, training at universities costs a lot of money, and of course we also have to use the labour and training they have received, and if they can get a job in a company at home, we would, of course, prefer that they come out and work and in this way also pay back to the society that has paid for the training, and of course it is not appropriate if it seems that some people from abroad also come with a good education but are then willing to go to a lower salary. This seems to us to be a problem if it is a matter of doing so for craftsmen, but also if it is a matter of doing so for people at home who, for example, have a university degree. Then the Left said so I heard it at least that the Danish People's Party is going to close Denmark off with this proposal. That's not true. The Danish People's Party will not, but this proposal, which I would like to stress, does not mean that it will be impossible to get foreign labour to Denmark. It simply means that you have to prove that you have tried to find the labour force in Denmark, and if you have, and if you cannot, then there will be an opportunity to pick up foreign labour on the scheme from a non-EU country. Then I would like to thank Enhedslisten and SF for the nice words and support. Of course, I would very much like to sign for that. Then I would say to the Radicals, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who said that it was a lex Tican that it is not. This has nothing to do with Tican at all. In relation to the Minister, who says that we must be open and that we must not exclude foreign labour, I would just say again that we shall not exclude foreign labour with this scheme either. After all, we have tightened up the part of foreign labour legislation which is about foreign labour, and despite the Danish Industry and Danish Employers' Association and the Government's claim that the Danish economy would virtually stall and the companies, one must understand, would largely escape from the country, we must simply note that the country is still in such a situation and that it is going very well with the economy, one must understand, although some changes have been made to the part of the immigration legislation which deals with the possibilities of recruiting foreign labour. This will also be possible in the future if this proposal is adopted. I think it is a balanced and very reasonable proposal. We in the Danish People's Party believe, as I have said, that if Danish society has paid for a Dane to have a long university education, it makes no sense to allow highly educated foreign labour to enter and outperform the Dane on the salary. I simply do not see the logic of it. From a narrow corporate perspective, I can see the logic, but we in the Danish People's Party believe that Denmark must be managed as a country and not as a company, and that is why we must of course take account of the companies and their need for labour, but there are also some other considerations that must be taken into account. If it is to allow foreign labour, also highly trained foreign labour, to enter and outperform a Dane on the salary • which we have spent a great deal of money on educating the person he or she will be parked on public support, and that is not sensible. That's unreasonable. We want to safeguard the Danish labour market and we want to protect Danish employees. We will do so when it comes to craftsmen, and we will do so when it comes to Danes who have taken a longer education. In the Danish People's Party we accept foreign labour, but it must be balanced and there must be a real need. That is, in fact, the background to the draft law. We believe that the requirement to prove that people with legal residence have applied seems to be a reasonable requirement. It should be easy for companies to comply with the new documentation requirements, in that the Danish business organisations generally emphasise that there is a shortage of labour, and everything else must be easy to document this view, which has been widely and repeatedly expressed in the media. So we are of the opinion that it would be possible to do so, and in addition, as several have also mentioned, we propose that we should not pay below the average wage, that is to say, we should not use the system of amounts to push wages down. So if you can't find the labour force in Denmark, and if you don't subpay within a professional group in which you want to hire a foreigner, you get to bring the labour force up here with this proposal. I do not want to hide the fact that I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, but there is always the possibility that we can think better during the committee procedure. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182250	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182325	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182334	The proposers' intention with this bill is to abolish the au pair scheme, and I think that is really a pity. An au pair stay allows young people to get an insight into everyday life in another country and in another culture, and many families in Denmark have enjoyed an au pair that can help in a quite busy everyday life. There are two sides that are both happy and that both win. Why would the Folketing actually stand in the way of that? Then I know that there are au pairs and host families who do not follow the rules. There are au pairs who are working illegally next to or staying illegally in Denmark when they are finished with their stay, and of course that is by no means in order. When aliens work illegally and stay illegally in Denmark • without a residence permit • of course it must be punished. This applies to everyone, and this also applies, of course, to au pairs. At the same time, I think that it is unreasonable and also totally excessive to overturn the objective of abolishing the au pair scheme because some do not use it as intended. It must be fought in other ways, and so will it. The police are making a great effort to combat illegal work. The idea behind the au pair scheme is good. Some Danish families have a real need for help in the home, and some young people cannot afford to travel out to experience new cultures.I think that they should continue to be able to do so through the au pair scheme. In the view of the government, it is wrong to talk about wage dumping in the context of the au pair scheme. After all, it is not a question of labour, but of an opportunity for young people to have a paid stay in Denmark, against the fact that they are of course helping in the family. I think that the tone of the au pair host families has become extremely rude. They are accused of all the atrocities in the world, often without documentation. In fact, we in the government think that instead of abolishing the au pair scheme, it should be made available to ordinary hardworking Danish families and not just to the most wealthy. That is why we in the Left voted against the agreement which, among other things, was signed. The authors of the proposals concluded with a government led by the Social Democratic Party an agreement which meant that it became more expensive and bureaucratic for the individual family to have an au pair living with them. Of course, the young people who want to be au pair in this country must have proper frameworks... it's obvious that they must have proper conditions while they're here. We're all in on that. But it can also be done without bureaucracy. Let me also mention that our au pair system is based on the Council of Europe agreement on au pair recruitments, which is a binding treaty of international law, which Denmark has, of course, also ratified. We may not have much experience in Denmark with the termination of international agreements, but I do believe that we should make sure that we have cancelled our international commitments before we stop fulfilling them. As I said, the government wants Denmark to continue to have an au pair scheme and we are opposed to abolishing it. We want to abolish some of the red tape that was introduced in 2015, and I can say that, of course, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182739	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182743	Why does the Minister say that this is not about labour? It's all about labor. That is very much why someone is picking up people on the au pair scheme, typically from the Philippines. And that is fair enough, you might say, because there is nothing illegal about that today. I am not saying that all families who have an au pair treat them badly I could not dream of saying that at all, and I do not think there is any evidence to say so either. But let us be honest and say that this is not about cultural exchange, it is about labour. Wouldn't the Minister agree that this is about labour? And it's a little strange that you have a system where you have to pick people up from, in some cases, the other side of the globe, I was just saying, instead of picking them up from your vicinity. However, does the Minister not agree that the au pair scheme, as it has developed, and then it may well be that the legislation, on paper, says that it is cultural exchange ■ really is about labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182840	No, I simply do not think so. Well, I also know a number of people who have had an au pair, and it can be said that they are part of a completely ordinary daily life of an ordinary Danish family. And I think that has been a great mutual joy. So I think it's only natural that in this, of course, there's built-in, and then you're going to help. That's what it's really about when you're part of a normal daily life with a Danish family that you're helping each other. And so it is with the au pairs who come to Denmark. But it is equally clear that, of course, there must be arranged conditions ■ I fully agree with that, and I fully agree that there must be. However, I do believe that this can be a great mutual joy, because it is also often about young people who would otherwise not have the opportunity to come to Europe for a period of their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508182940	But it's about labor. Now you have to call it what it is. After all, the Minister regularly prides himself on doing so, that is to say, saying things as they are. This is about labor. There's not much cultural exchange left. Well, maybe there was once, but there isn't anymore. The minister told me that she would like to look at making some changes to the scheme. What will be done in relation to the many au pairs that end up being illegal in Denmark? We can, of course, look at the reports coming from private medical clinics targeted at illegal immigrants, that there are many of them who come there, and we can see it year after year, who are former au pairs, who are allowed to come to Denmark and work for a period with a family; then they have to go back, and they do not. They end up living illegally in Denmark. So we are developing such a parallel society in Denmark for illegal immigrants. What will the government do about it? That is one question. The second question is: does the Minister think that it is reasonable for all those who do not avail themselves of this scheme to contribute to the scheme? It is the case that there are user fees in a number of areas for the host family, for example in relation to Danish education, but it is not full user fees. These are some of the areas in which the government will look at making changes if it is not able to support abolition and if there is no majority in favour of it, for example. I would like to say that it is not reasonable for all those who do not use the scheme to contribute to paying to those who use the scheme? And now let's be honest and say that many of those who use this scheme are people who have an OK. economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183057	Yes, it is quite true that many of them have an OK. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important point. I believe that there are a great many Danish families who could benefit greatly from having an au pair for a period of time, for example. while the children are young and you are very busy in the labour market. It's just a little bit more space. And I just have to say that I disagree that this is only a question of labour. For me, it is also very much a cultural exchange and an opportunity for Danish families to bring young people in from a foreign culture, from another continent, but of course also that young people have the opportunity to travel abroad. And then I think it's only natural for you to go to your hands. That's what happens when you're part of a family for a while. To the question of what we should do to prevent these schemes from being abused, I would say that it must also be for that reason that there is control. Now Mr. Martin Henriksen himself for the control to work. But that is also why, of course, if you are aware that the system is being abused, you must of course report it to the police. It's logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183217	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183221	I do not recognize the Minister's impression that there should be a particularly harsh tone towards the au pair families, and that would be quite unreasonable. It is obvious that there are plenty of families out there who treat their au pair properly, and that is really not too much to ask for either. I mean, we should not praise people for just treating each other properly. Of course there are, and those families are well, and they also have some au pairs who are happy to be with them. However, it is a question of whether the Minister too must recognise that what once started as a cultural exchange is today a purely labour market. Studies from the SFI show that most people are primarily motivated by the desire to make money and, of course, there is nothing wrong with that either. Many of them have financial obligations in their country of origin, where they include: pay the education of siblings or the maintenance of parents in old age. In other words, what started out as something ideal and as something where culture had to be exchanged has turned out to be a purely labour market. Otherwise, it is quite striking that 82 per cent. of the girls who come to Denmark come from a particular poor country, namely the Philippines.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183323	Well, I don't agree with that. I simply believe that there are a great many au pairs who have an experience for life while they are here in Denmark. And in that time they have also, you might say, helped a Danish family. But it also gives children in such a family a good insight into the fact that not everyone lives completely, just as we do here in Denmark. So I actually believe that there is a cultural exchange. And I think it would be a good idea to extend the system. I mean, there are plenty of older people, for example. may also benefit from having an au pair for great mutual joy, both for the young and for the elderly. But now the system as it is here is, and I am certainly not in any way prepared for it to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183412	No, I have understood the conclusions of the Minister's thought, but I have just not heard the argument for it, other than such a confirmation that stressed Danish families for children will benefit from getting a helping hand. Yeah, that's right. But what happens here is that you take young girls from a poor country to take care of the children of the higher middle class and the upper class in Denmark, and that is unworthy. That is why it is just a clean labour market that we can then regulate. And what happens is also often that these au pairs in Denmark continue to work as au pairs in other countries. One thing I would ask the Minister to address is that, although we have some number of au pairs in Denmark of less than 2,000 overall, in 2017, there have been 1,161 inquiries about the working conditions they have. And of them, 139 went on to lawyers. So if you take the figures for any other group of employees in Denmark compared to these figures, it's an incredibly large number of professional cases. And if it's almost like the family member... that's how I hear from the minister... how does the minister feel about so many inquiries about things that aren't okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183520	In that case, one must at least say that cultural exchanges have worked completely, because then it is because they are familiar with the Danish system and because there are actually places to go and get help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183534	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one on the floor is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183554	The Au pair scheme allows foreigners to come to Denmark and live with a family in this country. The foreign au pair receives an amount of about DKK 4,000. and, in addition, board and lodging. The aim is cultural exchange, and it could be so good, but for a lot of people it is actually not so good. There has been justified criticism of the au pair scheme for several years. Can we really say with our hands at heart that the approximately 1,400 work permits are an expression of cultural exchange? Almost 1,200 of them are from the Philippines. For some, the scheme works as intended, but we must also be honest with each other: in some and also too many cases, the scheme has the character of an opportunity to obtain cheap domestic help from a poor country; an opportunity that exists outside the usual arrangements which require specific training or wage levels in order to be able to come from a non-EU country and obtain a work permit in Denmark. This was also why the former Minister for Employment of the Social Democratic Party, Henrik Dam Kristensen, helped tighten the scheme a few years ago. There has been better protection of the right to holiday, improved rules for pregnant women, the host family should help to pay for Danish education, and both the outward and return journey had to be paid by the host family, and the allowance was raised and a number of other adjustments made. These were good changes that we are now awaiting the results of. Against this background, we believe that it is too early to conclude that the whole system must be abolished. We have also noted that the FOA trade union, which organises and supports the foreign au pairs, does not want the scheme to be abolished either. As we see it, this arrangement is facing some crucial years. Either the scheme will work as intended, i.e.: As far as cultural exchanges are concerned, for the vast majority of people, and this will be the best thing, or in the longer term there will be an entirely natural discussion about whether the system should be abolished altogether or whether we should adapt ourselves to the way the Swedes, who have built up legislation according to reality, namely that an au pair is really a domestic worker, and that it should therefore be regulated as a labour market regime where cultural exchanges mean less. However, as I said, the Social Democrats do not believe that we can draw this kind of conclusions yet. Now it is about making the latest changes work best and ensuring that it is still possible for Danish families to get a young foreigner right into the dinner table and thus strengthen cultural exchange. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183825	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183831	I thought it was interesting to hear sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that Swedish legislation is built up according to reality, that is, the reality that it is just a labour market where you have domestic workers. In other words, if the Social Democrats have come to the conclusion that the Swedes are right to make legislation based on reality, namely that it is a labour market, then the Social Democrats recognise that this is just an ordinary labour market. So what is the Social Democrat proposal if it is not to be abolished? Is it that we have to implement the proposals made by the FOA? I also just heard the rapporteur mention the FOA in a page note. So, first of all, is the goal that we are just implementing the FOA proposal, and secondly, is it not just a detour to really abolishing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508183916	Our assessment is that as far as some of the au pairs who are here are concerned, it fully lives up to the intention that it should be cultural exchange, while others are actually here as cheap domestic help from poor countries and that there are too many of the last and too few of the first. That is why, when we had government power, we have improved the scheme in an attempt to save the scheme and ensure that it will continue to be a cultural exchange scheme. We want to wait until we reach a premature conclusion on abolishing it. What, then, is the Social Democrat proposal? Well, it is to make the current changes work and to make them work, and we are not opposed to discussing further adjustments to the scheme, but it must be with the aim of making it work according to the original intention, namely as a cultural exchange programme. If we fail to do so over a number of years, if we continue to see that such a large proportion comes from a very specific country, and if we still see reports that show that it does not work as intended, then the Social Democrats will be involved in discussing what will happen next. And then we would just like to stress that the abolition of the system is not the only option then there is also the opportunity to look at Sweden, which has adapted to what they have at least seen as reality, namely that it has been a labour market regime. We just don't think we're there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184034	Well, then, it's exciting now, because what kind of specific things is that, sir? Mattias Tesfaye is awaiting the effect? What are some things that need to go through out there? That's one. The second is that you can try to compare this group with any group of employees out there. This group, which consists of less than 2,000 people, in 2017 nevertheless dropped 1,161 inquiries to the au pair network, and out of them there were 139 that were actually forwarded to lawyers. In other words, it is obvious that we are dealing with a group which has been squeezed in a good way, but many have been pinned down, so first I would like to ask what sort of things we are waiting for to be implemented, and then I would like to ask for an answer to my first question, namely, if the rapporteur says that Sweden is building it up according to reality, should we not do the same here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184133	With regard to the figures just read out by the SF rapporteur, it is of course the intention that we should come to a situation where we do not see such figures and where it is the exception that confirms the rule that there are problems with this scheme. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, but that is where we want to go. Then the rapporteur asks what kind of decisions have been taken, which we hope will be successful and will help to influence those figures. Well, that's one of them. some of the improvements I mentioned earlier, which were made, incidentally, together with the author's party, three years ago, that is, in 2015, and we think it is too soon to conclude that those rules have not been able to rectify the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184215	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184218	Thank you. I must not hide the fact that, of course, I am sorry that the Social Democrats cannot support the abolition of the au pair system. I think the agreement which the Danish People's Party was also included in the agreement was made for approx. 4 years since the date of entry into service. I think you can afford to go after approx. 4 years to start evaluating whether the agreement has had the desired effect, and we do not think so in the Danish People's Party. In addition to calling on the Social Democrats to reconsider their position, I would also like to ask the part about the fact that it is the case today that all those who do not have an au pair scheme are helping to pay for those who have. Is this something that the Social Democrats want to change, so that we introduce, for example. one hundred percent user fee? The host families wishing to take advantage of an au pair must then pay for everything themselves. There you can no longer expect public cofinancing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184316	It is then perhaps a question of patience whether one believes that 3-4 years is enough to see the final impact of some political changes. There we may be a little sluggish, but we just think it is important that if such a scheme, which has worked for so many years and has benefited so many families and has given so many young people an experience of being in Denmark, should be abolished, then it should happen after all other options have been tested. Right now we think it is worth waiting for the changes we have made. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party asks whether we want to contribute to the introduction of a general principle that all the costs associated with an au pair seen with the state glasses should be covered by the host family. I think that would be a dangerous path to follow in principle. Would it also mean health insurance, and what else is the cost of a person staying in Denmark? So, they are here; they have a residence permit in Denmark and, of course, some rights are included in the residence permit. Now we have helped to ensure that there is some cofinancing from the host family. However, I do not think that we can go out the way in which we say that all expenditure relating to the foreign au pair should in principle be paid by the host family, so I suppose the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184438	We wouldn't mind in the Danish People's Party saying that if you wanted to pick up an au pair for Denmark, you would have to take out a health insurance. We think this is very reasonable, because it is, in fact, a question of labour. We think it's fair if the host family pays for it. But one could also in relation to Danish teaching and there it is the case today that there is a certain amount that is user-paid, and then there is a certain amount that is paid by the public authorities asking if, in the eyes of the Social Democratic Party, it would be a good idea that the part that is about teaching au pairs in Denmark would then be 100% user-paid, so it is the host family that is responsible for the cost and is not something that the government has to pay for. And so it will also be the case that it is not something for which all the families who do not have an au pair have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184519	We in the Social Democratic Party are ready to discuss both the amount of pocket money, which currently stands at about DKK 4,000, the opportunities for holidays, working hours, and who has to pay too much of Danish education. Well, all the buttons that are in the system, all the handles that are in the system, we're always ready to discuss. We ourselves do not have a proposal for something to change, but we are by no means dismissive. What we are rejecting today is that we are now in the spring of 2018 able to conclude that this arrangement after so many years must be closed on the current basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184556	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184606	Thank you, President. I think, overall, that the au pair scheme as such is really, really good. Travelling Danish families get a little extra help for example. child care, while young foreigners often come from Asia to the country for cultural immersion. You live with a Danish family, you are part of the community, you contribute from day one, you strengthen your language skills, and you strengthen your work skills. As I read the bill, SF and DF also believe that the original idea behind the au pair scheme is good, but for the two parties, the minority's limited abuse is evidently higher than the majority of Danes use and enjoy the benefits of this scheme. So it is in fact how to solve the challenges of the scheme that the Left disagrees with the proposers. Will you, like SF and DF, give up and completely drop the scheme, or will you, like us, take up the fight and look at how we can solve the challenges of the scheme, so that the majority of Danes who do not abuse or exploit the scheme can continue to benefit from it? We believe it is worth preserving the opportunity for Danish families to get a little extra help with childcare, easier domestic work and knowledge of a young person who comes in and is part of the family. It is worth preserving the opportunity for foreigners to come to the country and learn more about the Danish culture and system. Thus, we are open to talking about whether there is something better to be done about the scheme, but we do not in any way believe that it would be appropriate to simply abolish the whole scheme. That is why the Left cannot vote in favour of this proposal to remove the au pair regime, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184810	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184811	I find it interesting that when Mr. Marcus Knuth starts talking about the scheme, which should be culturally developing, so the first thing that is mentioned is the practical physical work in Danish families, where you can be busy because you have children. Then it's good to have an extra helping hand. We are talking about culture, but the first thing that is mentioned is practical work. How can Mr. Marcus Knuth, however, make himself say that in these 82 per cent, who happen to be from the Philippines, does one just want to be culturally immersed? These are the words used by the rapporteur. However, as the SFI study shows, the reason why au pair girls are here is financial obligations in the country of origin, among others. sponsoring the education of siblings and the old age of parents. Cultural immersion? Mr. Marcus Knuth really that's why the young poor Filipino girls come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184907	Yeah, well, for the person who comes up here, it's like that unless I've read something other than what I have on my paper that you live with a Danish family, you're part of the community, you contribute, you strengthen your language skills, and you strengthen your working skills. I think that is something that the vast majority of people in Denmark in the au pair scheme will be able to recognize, and I think that is a very good goal in coming to Denmark, namely to strengthen their skills, to learn something and to be part of a Danish family for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508184944	But even cultural immersion? Is that why many of these girls are not just a few years old in Denmark, but often shop to other European countries to work as au pairs in those countries, because what this is all about is earning some money that you can send home to the family? I have such an understanding and respect for that, but then you just have to call it what it is, instead of playing such a hide-and-seek, where we call it cultural immersion. What this is about is physical work that has to be paid with some money. Speaking of cultural immersion, maybe that's why in this particular group of employees of just under 2,000, which is estimated to be in Denmark last year, there were actually 1,161 inquiries about working conditions and housing conditions, and what else they can have, and that 139 actually ended up being sent to a lawyer. So it is completely out of proportion to other employee groups. What we are talking about here is a labour market, and the cultural depression was probably equal... maybe there should be a few people, I cannot say that, but I wonder if they are 82 per cent. by the au pairs who come from the poor Philippines?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185048	I am quite convinced, quite convinced, that when you come from such a different country to a well-functioning Scandinavian welfare society, you learn a lot about culture, of course, but I am not pale to recognise that you also want an income, and that is why you get a reward for being in Denmark. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I am not blind to the fact that there have been cases of abuse of the system. Now the rapporteur came up with some figures. That is why we are saying that we can then look at whether there is something better to be done so that we can get the number of people who abuse the system completely down. I think that is a fair discussion to have. But to go from that discussion and then to abolish it simply, I think, would be a real pity for the many, the huge majority of Danish families, who in a decent way get something really good out of this scheme, and for the many young people who come here, who also get something good out of the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185146	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185152	Thank you. Allow me to read from an article in Politiken.dk from last year. It is from June 3rd 2017 and is about this problem. And now I quote from the article: "Already while they are on au pair contract, the young women get the opportunity to work with black cleaning," says Hans Henrik Lund, head of the Church Integration Service, who contributes to the Au Pair Network counselling line together with the union FOA and Caritas. And then he says further to quote: Up against 9 of 10 Filipino au pairs in Denmark working black while living with the host family, he evaluates. He helps to advise some of these au pairs who are in Denmark, and I have known about it for several years. Then it goes on to say: "When a legal au pair stay ends, the host family is required, according to the law, to purchase a return journey to the au pair with a departure within three weeks. However, no authorities ask for evidence that this actually happens and ensure that the au pair leaves Denmark. The negotiating leader of the FOA, Jacob Bang, says that undeclared work and the election of illegal status are an expression of the Filipino women becoming au pairs because they have an economic need. And then he says: "Many au pairs try to bypass the system, and the Danish authorities try to bypass reality when they talk about cultural exchange," he says to Jyllands-Posten. ▪ Wants Mr. Marcus Knuth to do something to solve the problems referred to in the article, which have been mentioned for many years in several articles and which have not been resolved, despite the fact that various political initiatives have been taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185316	First of all, through my personal experience, I have knowledge of several families who use the au pair scheme and who are extremely happy about it, and I have not once seen anything that indicated that the scheme was being abused. That is not to say that the system cannot be abused and that no one is doing so. That is also what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. There's what I'm saying: instead of just going out and looping it, let's see if there's anything we can do better so that the scheme works even better. There are also people who come here from abroad in other ways to participate in our labour market, and sometimes there are also some who abuse those schemes. This does not mean that we should just shut down and say that then no one can come to Denmark to work or to contribute. There is what we must constantly look at it and ask: but are the sanctions the right ones, is the system really connected? But abolition is simply not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185408	I understand from what I hear from the Minister that it is government policy to extend the au pair scheme so that more people can get an au pair. I have not heard of any action by the government and the Left on how to resolve the specific problems. Well, if the estimate that nine out of ten work black holds, what are we gonna do about it? Does this mean that there is a minority who abuse the scheme? No. This shows that a large majority is abusing the system. It is a fact, as can be seen from the reports made by private medical clinics that have offered targeted illegal immigrants, that year after year there are hundreds of former au pairs who are now living illegally in Denmark because they do not want to go home, they will stay in Denmark. They don't want to go home, even if they have to. Well, what's the answer to that? What concrete initiatives are there for a solution on the part of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185456	So now, during this period of government, we have come up with a series of measures to look precisely at what are the challenges facing the illegal labour market that we can be better at solving. So this is something this government is taking very, very seriously. But for the very, very many Danish families, who get something good out of a young person coming up here to help care for children, help with the household, while that person learns something about Denmark, earns some money and is part of a Danish family, I think it is overall a really, really good thing. Can anyone abuse it? Yes, there is. Is that something we can look at? Yeah, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185532	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185543	Thank you. I think it should be true, in fact, that there is one example out there where an au pair girl is employed to contribute to the cultural enrichment of her and the host family, but in the 999 other examples I have heard about, it is for most families to get a cheap domestic help without setting it up as black work. It would be wonderful if we could create a cultural exchange scheme that would allow young people from all countries, including Danish young people, to live in a family in other countries and to absorb impressions and experience from them. Now the Danish young people must not, because they must hurry through their education. And that's not how the piano plays either. In order to create such a system, there are very many conditions that should be different. The authorization should be granted, for example. Follow the au pair, so he and she were not entirely dependent on the family who might abuse their labor. Working hours, leisure time and pay should be regulated in an agreement as is normal in this country. And then there should be much better control of the host families, because there is very little chance that the au pairs in question will know their own rights and conditions in the foreign country. The Au pair should also be protected from unauthorised termination. All the terms, including return and return payments, etc. etc. should be included in a contract to be signed by both parties. After all, all these things are important to ensure that it could meet the conditions that are actually laid down in the au pair scheme. And I don't believe that. I am not so naive that I believe that such a change in the relationship between the host family and the au pair can be adopted with a snap. In fact, I believe that a majority in the House would rather protect the interests of host families in cheap labour, as we have heard so far, than protect the au pairs from exploitation. With this regrettable background, the Enhedslisten would like to support the proposal to abolish the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185742	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185751	In the Liberal Alliance, we are quite satisfied with the au pair scheme. We think it works excellently, both for the host families and for the people who come here. We have seen cases in the past where the rules have not been followed, but there are a few. If you think it is a big problem, then for our sakes you can easily look at how to punish breaches of the rules and whether control is good enough. But abolishing the system is for us to see a really bad idea. The system works fundamentally well for those involved, and we find it very difficult to see that there should be wage dumping. So much private childcare and the like we do not believe will be purchased if the au pair scheme is abolished. And with the Danish tax burden, most people do not have the opportunity to buy a lot of help at home. We are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185850	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185853	That is exactly the sentence that Mrs Laura Lindahl said: it is a matter of a minority. But how does Mrs Laura Lindahl feel about the fact that there are so many inquiries about what is called the Au Pair Network about their very working conditions? This does not necessarily mean that there is a breach of it in all 1,161 inquiries. It can also be just a question of what the contract looks like and what something should be like. But out of them there are 139 who end up with lawyers anyway. Is that just a few?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185929	Yeah, I actually think that's a few in relation to the total number. However, as I have said, if you do not think it is a small number, if you think it is a big problem, we would like to look at whether you can tighten up the rules, whether you can put in place additional controls, strengthen the system, but we are not interested in abolishing it, because we think it is basically a good system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508185951	If you imagine any other employee group in any industry, and if you take almost 2,000 more people out after all there aren't au pairs in Denmark and it should throw 1,161 inquiries off and 139 that end up with lawyers, then it's quite out of proportion. So here there are far more professional questions, conflicts, what we can call it, in relation to any other group. And here we are talking about some people who live at home with a family. So can the rapporteur at this point reflect on the fact that there are incredibly many requests from this group?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190032	However, the fact that there are many requests may also indicate that one is confident that one can address the questions one may have. And that's not bad in itself. There's nothing to suggest that all these inquiries are about violations of the rules. Maybe some of them do. But the rapporteur cannot qualify for these approaches, and that is why it is not serious in that way to stand and deal with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190115	Thank you. The Danish People's Party and the SF have tabled this bill on the abolition of the au pair scheme. We have had a long talk about this in our group, because there is no doubt that the intention of the au pair scheme is that there should be an opportunity for cultural exchange and that one should be with a host family and that one should have the opportunity for Danish education, language school, cultural immersion and so light domestic work 3-5 hours a day, and for that one gets a salary. And if the scheme worked really well, I'd think it was a really good arrangement. When you look at the factually who is applying this scheme, you see in the note which is in the background to the bill here that by far, by far, the largest group are young people from the Philippines, and so far down in second place we have au pairs from Kenya and then from Nepal and then Brazil and then Ukraine eventually, and then there are other nationalities, which are a broad pool, which is then not enlightened who is. And then I think that the reports to which questions have also been put by the authors of the motion say something about the fact that the people who come to Denmark as an au pair may not come to Denmark for cultural reflection. But they may actually come to Denmark to send money home to their families and to their children. Especially the young women who come up here and who have children at home, that is, who are separated from their children and are so poor that they have to go to Denmark in order to sustain life, make it a difficult arrangement. Is that the way we are going to make development aid? We do not think that it is, because we think that we should make development aid, so that those concerned have the opportunity to stay in their own country with their own children. That's why we're very much in agreement with the purpose of this bill. We also think that among other things. The FOA has some comments in the consultations that if the scheme continues, the residence permit must be attached to the au pair and not to the host family as it is today. I also think it is a very good purpose for the au pair to be included in the equal treatment law. But what we ended up with in our group was saying that we support this bill on the condition that we can make it within the Council of Europe agreement, because it is absolutely essential for us to live up to our international conventions and agreements. It is the opinion of the proposers that it does; the government does not believe it does. I certainly need clarification there before we finally decide whether or not we support this bill. But at the very least, we agree with the intention. We also agree with you if you do not go so far as to make those tightenings that have been proposed, but it is crucial for us that we comply with our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190514	There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190519	What makes me speak is that the rapporteur spoke about these young women who leave their own children to come here. It is just quite important, because it is precisely the sort of myths that flourish in this debate that we make it clear here that it is illegal. You can't be an au pair if you have kids or if you're over 30 years old. It may then be that there is a breach of the rules, and of course we have to crack down on that, but it is the case today that you cannot be an au pair if you have children of your own, precisely because no one thinks it is a good idea to leave your own children to come here and look after others. It's kind of those myths that help draw a picture of a scheme that's a little fake. So it was kind of just a clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190608	Well, thank you for that clarification. As I also began by saying, we have had a long group discussion because we think it is a difficult issue. It is clear that it is some of those myths that also fill up and some of them are so right, and some of them are less right. That is also why I look forward to the committee reading of this question, so thank you for the comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190635	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we were with the "I think it was in 2014 to," we think to improve the au pair scheme, but we would like to improve it further. In fact, from a discussion at our national meeting last year, we have three concrete proposals for improvements, namely that the 2-year residence permit, which is also something that is proposed in some of the consultation answers, is linked to the au pair instead of to the host family, so as to avoid any abuse of the host family, i.e. that the individual has the right; that only approved agencies can communicate contact between au pair and host family; and, finally, to lower the age limit for who can be au pair, from a maximum of 30 years to a maximum of 25 years. These are improvements that we would like to promote in the Radical Left, but we are not in favour, as this proposal proposes, of simply abolishing the system altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190750	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508190758	Au pair means on an equal footing, but in reality it is an unworthy condition for all parties: for the poor girls from the Philippines, who often work for years for low wages in Europe while they miss their families at home; for the host families, who are involved in an unequal power relationship with an employee; and for Denmark, which organises a traffic where poor girls care for the higher middle class and upper class children in Denmark. The idea of au pair is beautiful, namely cultural exchange living in the same family for a period of time, but the time has long passed from the beautiful thoughts. Today, au pairs are just ordinary wage earners, well to feel in much worse conditions than others in the labour market. We have to stop this hide-and-seek with the words, let's call it what it is: organized social dumping. The glaze over the bitter taste of social dumping is a fake song from the hot countries about cultural exchange, but au pair is just about working. All studies show that it is simple need that pushes the girls away and that it is money for the family that draws. I understand perfectly well that stressed Danish families of children would like a helping hand for childcare, cooking and cleaning, and there are already various municipal opportunities for help today. There is also the possibility of a tax credit for cleaning, and if that is not enough, then you have to adapt, as everyone else does. Thousands of busy families of children have a daily life that is actually connected, even without an au pair. I guess there's no more stress in a child's family just because it lives in Østerbro, in Gentofte or in Rudersdal. And it is precisely the higher middle class and upper class who have the coins to pay an ordinary domestic worker on quite common terms. So let us put it as it is: the Au pair scheme has developed into a domestic aid scheme, just on cheaper terms. With the proposal here, we make a clean table and say to the families who are busy: you can pay, or you can accept the municipal offers that are, but a false song about cultural exchange is not enough to get cheap labour at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191104	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191113	Thank you. Several people have explained what the bill is about, so I would like to thank SF first of all for having tabled the proposal together from the Danish People's Party. Of course, also thanks to the Enhedslisten for supporting the proposal, and thanks to the alternative for their support. There were a number of comments, some things that should have been examined before the final aid was granted, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for the positive comments from this point of view. I have already mentioned this in some of the comments I have made to the various rapporteurs, but I would like to repeat some of this: we in the Danish People's Party feel that this scheme has worked for a very long time, and we ourselves have been involved in this and other parties have been involved in trying to change some of the things in the scheme that we think are inappropriate. However, when developments in this area are described in the daily press and you look at the reports that also come in the area, you cannot say that there is any indication that we have solved the problems that have been and still are, with the various political initiatives that have been taken, perhaps even the quite the opposite. It's a big dark figure compared to those who end up being illegal in Denmark, but in 2016 alone, the Red Cross's two health clinics for illegal migrants had about 600 patient visits from Asian women, and their report says: "Women from Asia are primarily former au pairs'. This is stated in the annual report, and the same trend has been mentioned in all the annual reports since 2013. So this is a problem that continues to be there, and you have to assume that when people keep coming to Denmark under this scheme, there will also be more people who will then end up living illegally in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party believe that we cannot be served with this on the Danish side, nor can the women in question be served by their ending up living illegally in Denmark, because it is basically not a worthy existence for either side. Then I also referred to the assessment that has been made in the Churches' Integration Service, which among other things. works with FOA and Caritas to advise some of the au pairs in Denmark, and the assessment from the Church Integration Service was that nine out of ten work black. Many people then abuse the scheme and fail to comply with the rules in the area of nine out of ten. And it's coming from a person who, I guess, has to do with this, who works with the area. I would also like to say that others have said that there is an unequal relationship between an au pair on the one hand and the host family on the other. This is not an equal relationship and, of course, there are also cultural differences. And then this is a system in which all those who do not avail themselves of the scheme contribute to the financing of the scheme for those who use it, and that is not fair. We seem from the Danish People's Party and I would like to sign up to the parties who support the bill that we have tried to solve this in other ways with tools that are milder, but there is no indication that the problems have been solved. On the contrary, there is evidence that the problems have increased, and we hope that at some point the Social Democrats will realise that the measures taken in this area have not been enough to solve the problems. And that is why it would be good if we could say, if not at this stage, but at a later stage, that the scheme might have been about cultural exchange, but it is a thing of the past. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191454	Thank you. That was the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191522	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. We need to get the minister in. Here comes the minister. The minister must be here on time. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191548	The draft law must close the gap in legislation where, for a period of time, a company's income does not come to taxation in Denmark as it should otherwise be and as it was intended. In the ministerial language, the bill states that an unintentional possibility of applying the Merger Tax Act rules on cross-border mergers, divisions and the provision of assets to avoid taxing income earned in this country will be cut off. The bill is an expiry of a case that was decided in the Østre Landsret in October 2017, where income of 140 million. kr. in a Danish company which merged into a multinational group, ended up not receiving Danish taxation, even though the income fell during a period prior to the actual merger, and thus before the tax liability came to be in another country. This could be done because the date of merger in force in the legislation in force can be preceded by the date on which it has actually been decided to merge in all the companies involved, but with the draft law this possibility will be closed, i.e. the possibility of allowing a merger to have retroactive effect in the tax context and thus the income from the company in the period between the beginning of the financial year in the transferring company, in this case the Danish company, and the final adoption of the merger by the governing bodies of the other merging parties, thus keeping the income from Danish taxation. Instead, a tax return will have to be made for revenue during the period which will then be regarded as an independent financial year and then the merger is also carried out in a fiscal context. There are reasons for at least 140 million. kr.'s tax base to fret that there has been this gap in legislation. When this kind of thing occurs, it is important that the hole is closed efficiently and quickly, so that there is no greater loss for the community, and that is important at all, I think, for our tax authorities to be vigilant and avoid this kind of unintentional use of legislation, to keep an eye on where there is a risk of it occurring and to take action. So now we're doing this on the basis of a case of 140 million. kr. not came to Danish taxation, and the Social Democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191814	This is a bill that has the character of hole closure, because it helps prevent an accidental loss of tax revenue. It is, of course, a question of ensuring in Denmark that the income earned in Denmark is also taxed in Denmark, and one can then apparently avoid that, to put it very simplisticly, when two companies merge, one can choose to put the date back in time before one has decided it in the companies. And that makes it possible to avoid paying tax on the profits that are in the intervening period. And that is not very appropriate. It will then be resolved with this bill by the fact that it will have to be adopted by the companies in question before the merger can take place. And we in the Danish People's Party think that sounds like a perfectly reasonable and sensible change. That is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191904	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191911	Thank you for the floor. I mean, a lot has already been said. Of course, we want Denmark to be an attractive country to invest in, but it must be done on the right conditions, and we must ensure that the income earned in Denmark is taxed in Denmark. We have become aware that there has been a problem with the merger tax law, and that is what we are correcting with this legislation. We think it is timely care to resolve it as quickly as we possibly can, and that is so at this stage. So, as has been said by other rapporteurs, this is the point that the final merger can only really happen after it has been voted on. We think this is a very good legislative proposal and we support it on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508191956	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192002	As other rapporteurs have said, this bill will close a tax gap. And following on from what has been said by other rapporteurs, I can say that we in the Enhedslist can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192013	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192021	Thank you. I really have little to add, other than that we can also support this bill, which we think is quite reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192036	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192042	It's gonna be lightning fast when we agree. We fully agree with the rest of the Danish Parliament that we have to close the gaps when there are some who do not want to either pay what you have to, to the SKAT or do not get it done, or when there are technical errors and shortcomings. Now we're just happy that everyone backs up, so we do that in the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192100	Thank you. There is no radical rapporteur. I do not know whether I dare conclude that the Radicals support that too. Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192116	Thank you, President. I was actually going to spend some time down from my seat to make such a slightly longer ideological speech on this, because I could see that there was a very great deal of agreement, and perhaps I thought that was a little boring. But unfortunately I didn't make it any further, so I can just say that of course we also support the SF. And it is nice when the Minister, in his wisdom, sees it or by his officials, is made aware of a mistake or a tax gap in merger taxation that we will then have it closed. However, I have a question which I would like to ask in writing in committee, I think, about the request from the CSF - Danish auditors, who have a question about whether it will then be reduced in the right way in relation to double taxation agreements • whether there will be no overlap, as I understand their approach. And this is perhaps a bit of a question of principle, because sometimes, at least from the SF, we ask the question whether we have double taxation agreements with countries, as well as closing off all gaps and ensuring that there is no double non-taxation, as it says. And there we usually get the answer that the model agreement we have is closing off for at least most gaps. Therefore, I just find it interesting that the CSF in their reply refers to the fact that in their optics there is a slight overlap in relation to what we are trying to do here. I find this interesting in principle in relation to the other discussions we have, where the standard answer is usually that when we have double taxation agreements with other countries, it is under control. So this is just something that I really think could be interesting to take up in the Committee on Taxation, i.e. whether this is an expression of the fact that double taxation agreements with other countries always mean that there can be no gaps. Now I was able to say something a little beyond the fact that, of course, we agree that we need to make this right. So thank you for the time being, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192348	It's fine. Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that there will just be a comment from the Conservatives later on that is a little off the agenda. So I'm gonna let grace go too well in this good mood and say that now it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192403	Thank you, President. I should first like to express my deep regret at my late arrival in Parliament. As a matter of fact, I was watching Mr. Martin Henriksen's speech. Now we don't agree with sir. Martin Henriksen, but that was an excellent speech from the rapporteur. But the TV signal was a little delayed in relation to the momentum in the Assembly Hall, so I just got caught on one leg. I regret this to the Danish Parliament, and I shall do my part to ensure that this will not happen again. As I understand it, the Conservative People's Party, which is part of the government, also supports the bill, but cannot be present here today. I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. It is, of course, a first reading, at least a quick reading, but it is also a relatively limited legislative proposal, as a number of rapporteurs have already mentioned. Basically, as a tax minister, I believe that we in Denmark must have legislation that makes it administratively easy to operate and where the tax rules are designed in such a way that they do not prevent the growth necessary for companies to grow and create new jobs for the benefit of Danish society. And that is why companies must also be given the opportunity to adapt to restructuring and we must try not to prevent them from doing so with complex tax legislation. At the same time, however, I also stress that we have a tax legislation that is ready to ensure through regulation that income cannot be earned in Denmark without that income coming to taxation in the Kingdom. And the proposal has to be seen precisely in this light. A number of rapporteurs have also mentioned this. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that basic Danish tax principles are not disregarded, but rather to ensure that Danish income is taxed in Denmark. A recent ruling of the Court of Justice raised doubts about this, as it has shown that the current rules can be circumvented when Danish companies cease in cross-border mergers and these mergers are given retroactive effect in tax terms. And that is the purpose of the draft law to counter the inappropriateness, the tax gap, if you like. And this happens very simply by introducing a rule that this type of merger cannot have a fiscal effect backwards in time. The proposal will then also have an impact on other cross-border restructurings, where the same problem applies. The amendment of the law has been given effect from the time of its submission, and the early date of its application must, of course, prevent speculation which would counteract the purpose of the draft law. Now, as Minister for Taxation, I am putting forward a proposal that illustrates a tax gap. If it did not have effect from the time of submission, some follow in and it is basically good what we do in the Danish Parliament, which could so quickly do restructurings and get some big deduction of income that would instead end up in taxation. And that is not desirable. That is why the draft law was not consulted prior to the submission, but rather over the submission. With those words, I do not want to thank you for the debate that has taken place, because we agree on the proposal. However, I acknowledge the positive commitments and would like to say to Mrs Bech Poulsen that the question that has been asked would be better answered in writing. I think that is a perfectly reasonable question to ask, and I would like to give a good answer to that. But I think it's easiest to do in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192737	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192743	I have another question, and it may also be for a written answer. But this change of law has taken place on the basis of a law of autumn 2017 on a Danish company and a German sister company or subsidiary. And this is a specific case, so to speak, which means that we have this bill from the tax minister today. But does the Minister of Taxation know how many other mergers might have been, where there have been the same problems? It can then be said that this has had consequences for our area of resort and for the Treasury and for the reasonable taxation that should have been. So is the Minister aware that there have been other cases but which may just not have reached the judicial system?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192833	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192835	As I am informed, it is like this case that gives rise to it. It also takes a bit of creativity to find this model, where it has been possible to quite legally bypass, that interest income should be taxed in Denmark, where interest rates have been earned and values created. So I think that, in order to be on the safe side, we have to answer the question in writing. But when I look at what has come out in the hearing and what has happened, I think that, fortunately, we are out here early in order to close an opportunity which has then arisen. So I hope and believe that that judgment is a single swallow, but I should refer the question to the written answer in order to be quite sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192921	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192923	Thank you, then I will put it in writing, perhaps along with a supplementary question on whether there may have been cases where the SKAT has simply not discovered it, or whether this has been such a rather extreme case, because, as the Minister says, they have been very creative with it. But I ask the question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192945	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508192955	Well, I think that is a good question, and I will look forward to reading that too, and I hope that the Minister of Taxation is right in saying that it is an isolated or almost isolated case that is the reason for this. Then I shall also make a confession without it going to be an Oxford meeting here in the Assembly hall at the end of the afternoon. But just as the Conservatives are absent, so is the Radical Left, and I should have told them that the Radical Left too can support the bill. I can then delight the tax minister that there's a full record of support for this bill. Then the message is handed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193027	Thank you. I would just like to hope that the broad consensus in the Folketing will continue with the two subsequent fiscal proposals that we will be considering. I sign for the support of the Radical Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193038	Thank you, Minister. Then I did not take my mouth too full, I understand, in relation to the Radical Left. That's good. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193100	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193123	With the bill here we have to deal with 13 different elements at once with a great many different themes. There is an adjustment of the rules governing the permanent establishment of business at one end and a new method of determining fuel consumption for cars at the other end. There are sometimes some heavy piles of weddings as tax rapporteurs, where there are many different things gathered in a bill. We have tried this before, but this must nevertheless be one of the biggest combinations of things in the same legislative proposal that I have been faced with as rapporteur. In addition, the bill has been tabled in the eleventh hour of the assembly, simply on the last day that was possible, and there is less than a month to discuss it. So I think, as a start, that I would like to say that the Minister of Taxation is guilty of such a kind of regulatory mixed abuse. In the case of the Danish Parliament, it poses a risk of lawlessness. And even more paradoxically, it is all because several of the elements of the bill are actually about correcting other cases of new legislation not being properly drafted. So if you are going to comment on the legislative culture a little in this area, I suppose there is a background to say that there is a need to tighten up. Most of all, the elements of the bill are the expression of hole closures or reinforced protection rules on some of the points. We think that is a good thing. Some shortcomings in previous legislation need to be addressed, adapted to EU directives and EU judgments, and taken into account changes in the European calculation of car fuel consumption. It is a good mouthful, but it looks generally edible to the Social Democratic Party in such a way politically, and we can immediately support most of the elements of the bill. To address some of the elements, which I can also imagine are some of those of which there are some viewers who might be a little affected, I will address what is about the method of determining the calculation of fuel consumption, where, after all, a new method of calculating the fuel consumption of cars, a new test, because the old one has been found simply to underestimate fuel consumption and put the cars a little too well in these tests and measurements of how far cars run on one litre of petrol or one litre of diesel. From 1 September 2018 it is the new test that will take over from NEDC, i.e. the one now called WLTP, must be on all newly registered cars. For a period of time, they both were calculated. In general, however, fuel consumption will turn out to be approx. 21% higher than previously calculated, and if nothing was done, this would lead to a higher tax, because there is, after all, an increase in the registration fee of DKr 6 000. per km on a litre for a car that can drive less than 20 km on a litre of petrol, and correspondingly a deduction of DKK 4,000. per km/h We are going to get over 20 km, and for diesel cars 22 km on the litre. But that would mean an unintentional increase in registration fees, and that is not the political intention of the laws that were implemented on car taxation in the Folketing in recent times. That is why we are in favour of making such a conversion factor. There are a number of comments in the hearings on whether or not we have quite rightly been hit, whether there are any options for doing something special in relation to electric cars, hybrid cars and others, where some indicate that there is a risk of them being put at a disadvantage, and at least it is not our political position that they should do so. On the contrary, we want them to spread more and more quickly. So there will be a need to ask questions about this, but in general we support the creation of a conversion factor. At a later stage, it will then be possible to make a real change in the intersections when the WLTP method is fully phased in and an EDC calculation is not done at all anymore. Hopefully we can then have legislation that actually fits those kilometres on the gallon, the fuel consumption that is in the cars without having to make these attempts to attach them to a conversion factor. But we do not think that this should lead to a higher car taxation than that which has been the intention in the Folketing. Another area where there is a need for a little more attention could be the question of the adjustment of the beer moderation system, where there is therefore a possibility of reducing the tax rates for small beer producers. Apparently, this law has not been properly drafted since 2018 and we have dealt with it recently and so it has to be corrected again. The Minister proposes that the tax reduction should be assessed on the basis of production volume alone and not overall production and delivery. It is not clear in a few paragraphs, and it must then be adjusted. This is presented by the government as being favourable to small producers, and there are some of the consultations that suggest that this may not be the case in practice, and we will ask about this, as there are some others among these 13, and some of them are also fairly complex elements of the corporate tax law that we will need to ask about. But overall, we can support the bill and then we hope that it will not turn out that there is further sloppy hiding there and need for new corrections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193725	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193728	I would like to ask about the new WLTP test in relation to fuel consumption. For the Green Group in the European Parliament, a report has just been published, documenting and suggesting that the Danish Treasury has lost 24 billion. kr. in the period 2010-2016, because the tests used to test the fuel consumption of cars are not related to the fuel consumption used by cars in the real world. So that's gonna make this $24 billion less revenue. kr. From 2010 to 2016. And in 2016 alone, it was actually 6.2 billion. kr., we missed out on here at home... considerable amounts of money, it must be said. Then they also write in the report on the new WLTP test that it will solve some of the problem. But it is still gone a laboratory test that underestimates how much gasoline cars actually use out there in the real world. So there will still be a big difference between what the car owners pay tax on, i.e. how far the cars can drive on the liter, and how many kilometres the cars drive on the liter in reality, which will be significantly less than the WLTP test shows. Taking this as a starting point, the Danish state will in fact continue to miss a large billion dollars in future, because it uses an improved laboratory test, the WLTP test, rather than a Real Driving Emissions Test, that is, a test based on what the cars are actually polluting in the real world. What does the Social Democratic Party really think about that? Have we landed on the right track with the WLTP test?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508193901	I think it is a good thing, firstly, that it has actually been found that there is a need for a new one and that it is then made and that it becomes more accurate. I don't know that report, sir. Rune Lund refers to this, but there will then be an opportunity to ask questions about it, both to the tax minister, but also to other relevant ministers. Without being such an expert on the various methods, I believe that it must at least be the aim to have as truthful and correct a tax and method as possible, which actually reflects what is the reality, both because it is about tax revenue and the fact that some fiscal instruments are trying to influence the composition and pollution of the car package, but also because it is a consumer issue, so that there must simply be an honesty in the declaration of the characteristics of the vehicle to those who are interested in buying it. As I said, however, I have not read the details of that report, Mr. Rune Lund mentions, and I find it difficult to go into it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194017	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194020	It is true that there is a consumer angle to this. There are a lot of consumers who have been cheated. They thought they were buying a car that was more environmentally friendly than it really was. Our climate and environmental policy are being undermined because we are designing the policy according to the fact that we believe that cars run x kilometres on the litre, but they are actually running much less. And then we have a situation where car owners have been paying too little in tax for years, because the tests we use to measure how much the cars are running are measuring wrong. Then it can be said, as the draft law does here, that we must not raise taxes when we introduce the right tests. It could also be said that the revenue that comes from it could be used to reduce taxes on electric cars or to make public transport cheaper or, at the very least, to do a new exercise in relation to a change in the registration tax, which was more green than just such a general one, and to offset that revenue. Well, it's actually 11⁄2 billion. kr. that's gonna be spent on this. It's not pennies we're just gonna burn off here on a Tuesday night in the Folketing. So what is the rapporteur thinking? At least I still don't think things are connected, as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194123	It is very possible that there is a need for a continuing professional discussion on how to do either a test or a concrete measurement on the cars. What we need to deal with here is to do an improved test. That is our opportunity now. And I think that's the right thing to do. So we will support that. And I also assume that Enhedslisten will end up doing so, even though they may not think it is the best and most optimal situation. I would also like to say that I do not think that we should just decide this afternoon, just before the end of the session, to increase car taxation considerably. It is where the Folketing has decided it should be. And now you are trying to get a more precise method of measuring what fuel consumption really is and what taxation there is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194226	At least once in each collection we have a tax law, and this is another one with 13 proposals in it. Collective laws sometimes make good sense because there may be such small changes that it does not make sense to deal with them independently. But sometimes you can put too much into a bill, and I would venture to say that you have probably done so this time with 13 proposals on many different subjects, and some of them are quite large. Just the last debate has a lasting economic impact of 1.5 billion. kr. So in this case, I think it might have been useful if it had been split up in some more proposals. Perhaps it could also have been dealt with in greater detail here in the Folketing with the five minutes we, for example. has to a rapporteur's speech than when it's all just pooled in one huge document. I do not want to come around all 13 proposals, but will pick some out after all very naturally, because you cannot reach them all. The first thing I would like to mention is the adjustment of the rules on permanent establishments, on which much has been written in the draft law. The reason for this is that there has been a certain degree of fear and uncertainty in the industry; it was feared that if you made passive investments in Denmark, you would have a permanent establishment. We do not do that today, but there was a fear that we would be doing it forward-looking, and that is why it is so adjusted here in the draft law. And then we think it is quite reasonable that there should be more clarity about it. There is also a move to avoid some double taxation of foreign persons and companies. It is always sensible, I think, to avoid double taxation, in the same way as avoiding the absence of taxation. A third measure I would like to mention is the tax-free merger between cooperative banks and savings banks or banks. There is the strange situation today that two cooperative banks can well merge, that two savings banks can well merge, and that a savings bank can merge with a company authorised to operate a financial institution, but a cooperative bank and a savings bank obviously cannot. This will change with this, and I think that makes sense, and that is probably something you could imagine could be relevant in the future, in that you can see that there are a number of banks merging over time. Then there is point 2.6 of the draft law's comments: EU legal adjustment of taxation on investments of nonresident pension institutions in real estate. After all, it is on the basis of an EU judgment that it is not reasonable for Danish pension companies to be neatly taxed at 15.3%, while a foreign company has 22 per cent taxation. There may be something EU-unlawful in it, but what I would just like to note here is that when you do it in such a way that you can get a different tax retroactively, then I think it is remarkable that it is as far back as 2013. I mean, I think it seems like an incredibly long time to make a re-impact in the legislation, i.e. to 2013. So I think it is at least essential that we get the drill into committee reading. There may be good arguments for this. I do not necessarily expect the tax minister to be able to answer that in this Chamber today, but that is at least one of the things we would like to see clarified in the committee procedure, i.e. whether it is now the right cut that is being made in relation to going so far back. Then there's that, like mr. Jesper Petersen also referred to the setting of fuel consumption for certain cars, where this new method comes in. I think everyone who bought a car knows that the figures on the sales layout are not true. It's not funny, but it's kind of funny to buy a car that drives 20 km on the gallon when everyone knows that you can't actually make it run. So it is quite positive that there is now a new method, which is certainly more correct. As Mr. Rune Lund says it might not hit exactly, but it's more accurate. Because it is not appropriate for us today to have a system that is completely out of line and which also undermines the limits set by the Danish Parliament that when you drive less than 20 km on the litre, you get an allowance in the tax, while in return you get a deduction when you drive more than 20 km on the litre. They were hollowed out, and that's what you're proposing to be adjusted. Something I think is a little special in this case is that it is a regulation that was adopted on 1 June 2017 and that the new inventory method was put into effect from 1 September 2017. But funny enough, it wasn't until September 21, 2017, that we made a car deal, where we changed these taxes. And I have to say that I think it is a little odd that we did not get this information while we were negotiating the car agreement, because it was obvious that this extra tax would come if we did not do something about which we are now trying to rectify here. Well, sir. Rune Lund was also a little after that in a question. You could choose to screw the buttons, lower the low rate, or whatever you wanted. In other words, it is perfectly legitimate that we should have a better measurement method, but when the regulation was adopted and came into force before or actually entered into force, at the same time as we were sitting and had a rather intense negotiating process in the Folketing, it is a little remarkable that we did not get that information from the Treasury. So I'd just like to say a lot of regret that we didn't get it. Then there's the last thing I want to mention. That is also what the Social Democratic Party was talking about, namely the way in which the beer moderation system was organised. It may be that what the Treasury is proposing makes sense, but I have also noticed that there is a rather critical consultation response from the Bryggeriforeningen, which is the main actor in this area, and also from Danish Industry, which recommends that we do not support the scheme. Therefore, I would like us to go further into this proposal in committee to see if we can perhaps find some adjustments so that it might be more relevant to the dial, and so that the parties out there can vouch for it. These must be my concluding remarks. And then I look forward to getting an answer to that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194802	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194806	I fully agree with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's comments that the misleading tests should have been part of the car tax negotiations that took place last year. Because then you could have just decided as part of a larger package how to turn on many of these handles that exist in relation to car taxation. After all, we are cut off from that now that there is such an automatic adjustment to it, where priority is not given to those areas which could have been given priority, for example. electric cars or the most environmentally friendly cars or public transport, and that is not change, is it? In other words, the additional revenue is increasing to 1.5 billion. kr. in a sustainable effect in 2019 with a direct impact of 5 billion. kr. So it's not pennies we're talking about here, and the WLTP test isn't even fair. It is also a laboratory test which does not show how much cars pollute in the real world. So there will still be a billion-dollar loss, that is, money that the Treasury is missing because the tests are not fair. Well, this isn't in place at all. I would like to ask you something about the backwards. Because if the report that has been produced on the initiative of the Green Group in the European Parliament is a believer, we have missed 24 billion. What we do not know is how much is due to cheating and forgery with software and how much is due to the fact that, as politicians, we have chosen, so to speak, to take a bad test. What do you think, sir? Dennis Flydtkjær saying that we should look at the possibility of pulling some of that money home if it's due to cheating?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194932	Thank you. Speaking time must be observed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508194934	The first comments were mostly confirmation of what I said in my rapporteur's speech. So I'm not going to go into that. It is true that the one who comes is not necessarily one hundred percent true. But it is, after all, better, and I think that is a step in the right direction. I think it's hard to imagine, as sir. Rune Lund mentioned that it was good enough for the previous rapporteur to do such a reality test, that is, that all cars should be tested. Because there can be many different models, depending on what an air conditioner and other things you have in the car that can affect it. So I guess it's hard to imagine making it at this point. After all, we can hope that you will arrive at a precise target, but it may not be right now. As far as revenue is concerned, it is indisputable that Denmark has lost a great deal of money on it, because of course people have paid too little because the test has been wrong. I just don't think it's easy to imagine that you're going out to knock on the door with Mr. Kim. and Mrs Jensen and say that they have paid too little for their car and then come after them. But it is clear that if someone has been directly fraudulent, that is to say companies, importers, or whatever it may be I have no suspicion or can say that it has happened then something criminal has happened, and then there are some other things that come into force. Then it is obvious that you try to pursue it if that is the case. However, as I have said, I have no evidence to say that someone has cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195038	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195040	I fully agree with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær in that we should not go out and go after ordinary people who, in good faith, have bought a car that they thought was more environmentally friendly than it really is. It doesn't make sense. I mean, this is about seeing if there's been some kind of tax optimisation in relation to the way cars have been tested by car manufacturers, or whether there may have been some kind of cheating, as we've seen with cheating software with diesel cars and NO x. But compared to the forward-looking, we won't get a test that will be true. Car owners will still pay less in tax than they should have paid if the test had been true and if it had been a Real Driving Emissions Test, that is, a test under real conditions that had been applicable. Isn't that something we need to fix? We're gonna miss billions of dollars every year because these tests are misleading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195129	In other words, I would clearly prefer to have a test which showed exactly what a car uses in fuel per car. kilometers. That would be the obvious thing. But that test is just not there right now, and I am glad that you find here a test that is better after all, and if at some point you find out a way to do it, which is even more accurate, then of course we take it. It may also be that you can compensate for it in relation to tax legislation... it could also be an option... but it's hard for us to decide that we now need a test that is completely true. If the test isn't there, we can't conjure it up, but I'm glad there's a test here that's better than the old one was.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195203	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195207	Thank you. I would like to pursue the lead that Mr. Rune Lund referred to whether or not there has been a deliberate and deliberate cheating and failure. After all, this is where I fully agree with the rapporteur that the ordinary citizen who, in good faith, has bought a car is not to go home and knock on their door and say that they owe, not at all, that would be completely insane. But would the DF be willing to try in the committee's work to see whether something has just happened, where some sort of compensation should be demanded, or where something criminally wrong has happened, and go that way? Because there I don't really think we've heard from the government that that's something you're interested in. In any case, in today's debate, the Minister of Taxation did not make any mention of this at all when several people asked about this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195311	I think it is obvious that you should go ahead with it if it is the case that someone has cheated. But I also think it is a little out of Parliament's remit, in other words in relation to the division of power. We legislate, and it is actually the executive who is going to track it down if anyone has done something illegal. Because if they have been cheated, they will have to carry out that task, and we will then set the framework for it. So I think it might fall a little outside the competence of the Committee on Taxation to go down to committee and investigate which companies may have cheated or not cheated. So I don't think I can confirm that I think we as legislators should sit and work on the Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195342	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195344	No, but then I didn't make myself clear, and I'm sorry. It was just in relation to the fact that both the Prime Minister during today's Question Time and now also the Tax Minister do not seem to be a road that you have some plans to go, and it is quite true that this is not the task of the Tax Committee. But we can, of course, try to clarify in the Tax Committee as part of this process, what is of legal potential, or whether there is simply a lack of legal means, to go further along that path. So, of course, this is not something we need to do as a Tax Committee, but to clarify what is of legal scope in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195425	You always have an opportunity to ask the government the questions and to find out what legal options there are to come after them. If someone has deliberately cheated on taxes or on technical data on the car, it is illegal already now, and I assume that you can come after them. But I just don't have a basis as a member of parliament to stand and say that there's cheating. Well, that's what we've been through in the past. Didn't VW cheat on anything? It is clear that, if that is the case, we must, of course, come after them. But it may not be right in connection with this bill that we as the Tax Committee should sit and say that we are the ones who are launching a huge investigation. The executive in Denmark must do so. Whether it's SKAT or it's the police, you have to find out in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195504	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195511	Thank you for the floor. This is, after all, one of the legislative proposals in the field of taxation, as several of the other rapporteurs have said, namely one in which there are a great many different changes, that is to say about 13 amendments, but of a relatively small nature, and that is why they do not receive a legislative proposal in themselves, but are part of a larger one. Then we can discuss whether 13 is too many, but it is now very normal in the area of taxation that we have many. A great deal has already been said about what this is about. For example: there is this in relation to a permanent establishment. For we could understand that there were difficulties in attracting investment in Denmark if one had a risk in terms of obtaining a permanent establishment by being part of an investment pool or the like. There we will have the rules clarified so that it becomes clearer that you really have to have a permanent establishment and not just invest something in Denmark in order to have a permanent establishment in Denmark. This should address this issue and ensure that we can continue to have foreign investment in Denmark. In addition, we ensure that our business tax is in line with EU law, and we do so by adjusting a number of tax rules, among others. the rules on exemption from VAT for self-employed groups. Then there's this whole thing about an adjustment of car taxes. As has already been much discussed here, it has come to light that the tests that have been carried out on how far cars can travel on the litre have been misleading, and that is, of course, extremely regrettable. The tax burden, the tax burden, on cars are politically determined, and while the Left has been in government, every year we have reduced the tax burden on cars, and that is why we do not intend to let it increase because we change the method of inventory. When we have had it here about how far cars can travel on the gallon, it has been to have a factor in our calculation of the registration fee, which shows something about the environmental impact of cars on society, and to provide an incentive to invest in cars that can drive longer on the gallon. Therefore, it is in our interest to ensure that this incentive structure is still gone without people being taxed higher by the cars. These changes are slightly different for the different car models, which means that they will also be moved. Overall, it will be the same car tax if you look at it, but there are some where the measurement methods are significantly different and where there is a greater difference between the previous measurement method and the future one, and this means that it can change a little about how the tax pressure is on the different cars. In general terms, however, what you have will be maintained, and that is also what we think we have an agreement on with the agreement on car taxation in the Folketing. Against this background, I can say that the Left and the Conservatives, whom I should like to welcome from this time on, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195815	Thank you for that, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508195827	This is a very large and very technically complex proposal. I can say in this connection that I agree with that, Mr President. Jesper Petersen said from Parliament's platform here. Because we do sometimes have a lot of tax weddings when there is a bill there, but this is very complex and technical and deals with many different things at once. This is also evident in the many answers to the hearings. Even very competent parties who have submitted a hearing response to this bill also, you can see, have difficulty in understanding and interpreting all parts of that bill. So it's very complicated matter. There are a number of things that we in the Enhedslisten agree with when we read the bill. It is, for example, that the draft law contains an amendment designed to address the risk of accidental double taxation of foreign persons and companies' permanent establishments located in Denmark and in cases where the permanent establishment receives dividends from a Danish company. There is also the EU adaptation of the VAT rules, which other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and where the applicable VAT exemption for self-employed groups is not in line with the relevant directive in this area. Of course, we support that too. Then there is also the extension of the safeguard rule to prevent circumvention of the dividend tax by converting taxable dividends into tax-free share margins. It is also an element that we can support. Then there are a number of things that we can live with, and then there are some things that we are absolutely critical of. If I have to strike down at least two things, it is the adjustment of the rules on thin capitalisation as a follow-up to a ruling by the European Court of Justice. That adjustment involves a slight relaxation of the rules on thin capitalisation, and I can say that is not something we like very much on the part of the Enhedslisten, because in this way we think that there should be a tightening up of the rules on thin capitalisation, which is, of course, about building up debts in companies and receiving interest subsidies in high-tax countries, while moving profits to low-tax countries. On the contrary, we want to tighten up the level of interest that can be accepted in the case of loans between connected companies, thus moving income away from taxation. It is just to say that we think the direction is wrong in that proposal, even if it is based on an EU judgment. Then there is another proposal I would like to mention, and that is the new WLTP test. After all, it is deeply problematic that for a period from 2010 to 2016, we seem to have missed 24 billion. kr. in the Treasury because some tests have been used, which are totally misleading, to show how many kilometres a car can drive on the liter. I have to say that I also think that we are a little ridiculous as legislators when we adopt some rules on, for example. mileage allowances on cars and then it happens that some tests are being used that do not comply at all with the intentions behind the rules adopted here in the Folketing. That, frankly, is deeply problematic. Then the question is how much of this is due to cheating, and how much is due to the fact that these lab tests are being used, which do not have a honk excuse the expression "reality" to do. It's still gone something we're gonna have to have drilled in and dug out. It is for me and the Enhedslisten to see quite clearly that if there is a case of cheating with e.g. software, of course that's something we need to look at. We have seen that, for example. Volkswagen has been out to recognize that they have cheated and got cheat software into the cars so that they have appeared less polluting than they really are. I also hope that the Treasury uses some resources to look at how to come after companies that may have cheated in this case. Then there is the question of future revenue. One thing is that you have lost 24 billion. kr. backwards, of which only 6.2 billion. kr. in 2016, if the figures in the report published by the Green Group in the European Parliament on the matter are available to believers. But we are also faced with the introduction of the new WLTP test even in a situation where we will miss billions of dollars annually. We in the Group of the European People's Party feel that this is a serious problem, because that money should have been in the common fund a long time ago. If you want lower car taxation, then we have to change the rules, for example. The mileage allowance. So by doing some tests that are fair, we are really only getting the result that the money that should have already been in the common fund for a long time is finally coming to that. That is where we can discuss whether the money should be used to make cars even cheaper and whether all cars should be equally cheap or whether we should remove the tax exemption on electric cars, as we would like to do in the Enhedslisten, and whether we can make public transport cheaper. In connection with our annual meeting, we in the Enhedslisten have been out to propose that it should be 30%. cheaper. It costs just over 2 billion. kr. a year. There are many things you can do to improve traffic conditions for people, whether they have a car or do not have a car, with the money we miss every year here. So this is a very mixed country trade and there are things we are in favour of and things we are against, but when it is all put to the vote in this way, we have to say that, overall, we are negatively disposed towards the legislative proposal. It is precisely because it is such a big pile of weddings that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200419	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur: Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200429	Thank you for that, President. As several speakers have said, this is what to call it, a bit of a mess that may not be the right word for minor but necessary adjustments in a number of areas. I think that most of it is quite uncontroversial, but I would like to highlight the point where we are thus creating greater clarity about the legal position of foreign investors in Denmark in relation to the rules on permanent establishments. If Denmark is to do well in the competition to attract risk capital, it is necessary that we do not create unnecessary inconvenience for investors and uncertainty about their legal position. It seems like you're gonna solve this bill. We will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200524	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200535	Thank you. There has been a fine review of the draft law and we will strive to be in favour in the end. But like my colleague from the Enhedslisten, Rune Lund said, and as the Social Democrat rapporteur also began with, it is a very complicated proposal, perhaps not the individual parts, but if we are to see what the consequences really are. That is why I have asked for a technical review, and it may be that only we in the Alternative have not quite caught all the consequences in two to three of the elements. But before we can say yes to everything, there are at least some of the points on which we have also been informed by experts in consultation answers and by journalists who have just announced what we are going to look at. So these are some large amounts that can suddenly be the consequence. One-and-a-half billion have been mentioned. kr. It was something that was mentioned in a consultation answer and not in the legislative proposal itself, at least not as I read it, so I look forward to a technical review, and then I hope that we can land on a positive answer, a yes in spite of errors and shortcomings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200634	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The Radicals are not here, and then we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508200649	As my colleagues have said, this draft law consists of 13 very different proposals, but I do not want to go through them all. I would also like to say now that I fully support the alternative proposal that we should have a technical review, as some of the proposals are very, very technically complex. As I said, I am not going to go through all of them, as several of my colleagues have gone through some of them, but I am going through some of the points. Around the adjustment of the beer moderation system, i.e. a tax reduction, it is almost entertaining and perhaps a little nerd to follow the questions and answers that have been from and to the Bryggeriforeningen and the Treasury. As I read the hearing answer, I really got the impression that it is two different entities that talk past each other, and it is at least quite confusing when the term is that the Treasury says that it is not a relaxation or a tightening, but a clarification, as I have at least understood, while the Bryggeriforeningen says that what should have been a relaxation for small and medium-sized breweries, that is to say to support microbreweries in Denmark, is actually a punishment. So whether it's one thing or the other, it depends on how you look at it. In the hearing answer the Minister writes that the government wants to promote microbreweries but lacks funding. Here we would like to offer from the SF, although it is too late, but for future use, that we actually provide a higher level of tax relief for microbreweries funded in the same industry. It is specifically the microbreweries, which the government has had a desire to support, and if this happens within the brewery industry, we think from the SF it could be fine. Then there is the new method of determining fuel consumption for certain cars. I agree with the DF's rapporteur in the debate, and we are not experts that it seems that the new approach is significantly better and more accurate. We actually have such a bit of a PR debate in here where the Enhedslisten's rapporteur talks about some people thinking that car taxes have simply been too low in relation to the green transition we are going through. That's one. The second is that Denmark, if the Greens' report stands up to believers, has lost so many billions compared to something that has either been wrong, cheating knows or whatever it has been, and that is why, unlike my colleague from DF, I think it is a fair enough question to ask in committee what steps are being taken now. And it is not, of course, a question of us taking steps as a Tax Committee to investigate one thing and the other, but I am rather curious about what is going to happen now, because if the Greens report stands up to believers, it will be an insane loss to the Treasury. Then there is the second discussion about whether car taxes have become far too low in terms of ensuring a transition to a fossil-free future. Then there is paragraph 2.5 on a tax-free merger between cooperative banks and savings banks or banks, and I have simply not dug myself into it well enough to see if there is an ideological problem for SF, but I have just wondered why it is coming now, and therefore I would also like to hear from the Minister for Taxation whether there has been a specific reason, whether there has been any inquiries and, if so, who they are from. Then there is the last thing in relation to my time ■ the adjustment of the rules on the permanent establishment, and it is also a little interesting to read about this statement, where the permanent establishment is not defined in Danish law, but the definition of the permanent establishment by the OECD has been taken into account and taken into account in Danish legislation, and this is then defined by an expression about the pursuit of a profession which has not been defined either. I am actually just mentioning this because, from the text of the legislative notes, I am becoming a little uncertain about what kind of basis it is on which these decisions have been made and when a company has been defined to meet the conditions or the opposite for a permanent establishment, and that is quite important in relation to where one is taxable. So I will also ask some questions about this in committee. However, we are in favour of a technical review, at least of some of the points.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508201231	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. And then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508201241	Thank you for the floor and for the receipt of the bill. I would just like to say something at the outset, and then I would like to comment on some of the rapporteur's speeches that have been made. Basically, as tax minister and Leftman, I am of the opinion that we in Denmark should have as clear and simple tax rules as possible. And with this proposal, we are making a number of adjustments and clarifications to the rules in order to create clear and simple rules so that companies and citizens are not burdened with inappropriate or unintended financial or administrative burdens. The draft law then contains a large number of different proposals for amendments to the rules, and I, like some of the rapporteurs, would also like to comment on some of them. The first in the proposal is an adjustment of the rules on permanent establishments. And there we in the government have the overall goal that Denmark is and should be seen as an attractive country to invest in for foreign investors. Continuing growth in Denmark requires that Danish companies have access to what is called risk capital, and risk capital comes in many cases from investors who live outside the borders of our country. A number of trade associations have then pointed out that the rules we have today create what can be called an uncertain legal situation, which can therefore make foreign investors prefer to invest in other countries rather than in Denmark. It could be in Sweden or in Germany, for example. This is a criticism that I take seriously, as Minister of Taxation, and it is a criticism that we are dealing with with this bill that we are dealing with. How do we do that? That is what we are doing by investing in, for example. In the proposal, shares are only regarded as an occupation which can trigger a permanent establishment in Denmark in cases where the investor in question makes the investment as a matter of nourishment, i.e. to live on it; as a means of living. The clarity of the regulatory framework and its effects provided by the draft law will provide an administrative relief, for example, for: capital and infrastructure funds and investors in these funds. That's one of them. some funds offered by large Danish investment companies that help ensure a return to the many Danes who have money tied in Danish investment companies. They will avoid the need to set up complex structures in order to avoid the unintentional emergence of a permanent establishment in Denmark for foreign investors providing risk capital. And said in more common Danish: If some of the investors, as among others. invests in Danish funds, among others. from pension companies, are suddenly at risk of being fully taxable in Denmark too, even if it doesn't matter whether they have to pay more or less in tax but thus the risk that they will suddenly have to familiarize themselves with all of Denmark's tax rules, makes some will refrain from investing. It makes Denmark an unattractive country to invest in, and it will of course potentially put itself in the potential return that pension funds and others will be able to provide, and the government does not want that. We'll take care of that with the bill. Implementation of the proposal would also be an administrative relief for the authorities. So far, there has been a lack of clarity in the regulatory framework, which has led to the need for a very large degree of prior opinion in the form of binding answers before each fund could start its investment activities. So this is a regulatory adjustment which will ensure clearer and simpler legislation in this area. I would like to stress that the adjustment in relation to the current legal situation does not change the extent to which foreign passive investors actually pay taxes in Denmark. So it's an uncertainty they have that we address. They will continue to be subject to the rules on limited tax liability, for example, by: dividends and interest, and they will also have to pay tax on the kind of income that follows the rules on limited tax liability. In order to ensure that business taxation complies with EU law, we then propose various adjustments to the tax rules, including an adjustment to the rules on VAT exemption for self-employed groups. The proposal to limit the possibility of using VAT exemption for independent groups is necessary after the European Court of Justice has interpreted the relevant directive provision. The bill also contains other rules for amending the tax rules. In order to avoid an accidental increase in car charges, it is therefore proposed to adjust car charges to suit the new international standard for measuring the length of a car on the gallon. If I am going to try very briefly to deal with some of the criticisms that have been made, then I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Jesper Petersen, and I think Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, in that this is such a bill where there are many different things together. It is not out of bad will towards the Folketing, but actually as a service, because we would like to divide this into 12 minor legislative proposals. However, each element might not bear to be an independent bill and to have to go through the lawmill. So there is concern for that too. If anyone wants the bill to be divided, I should like to take a positive view of it. When we have a lot of bills in the tax field, too, many small adjustments like this, it comes from section 46 of the Constitution, if I am not mistaken, which says that in order for us to collect a tax and a tax, it must be provided by law. And that means that if a comma is put wrong, or if a sentence in a remark is wrong or misleading, then the law is not what we expected, and therefore there will be corrections, especially when we legislate as much about taxes in Denmark as we do. So I fully agree with the criticism that is being made. I just have to be honest with you, I find it hard to see how we can solve it in the short run, at least, with the way in which the constitution has been put together. However, I can say in return that I, and also the officials of the Ministry of Taxation, must be sympathetic and, I hope, quick in answering any questions that may be, and I would be happy to ask the committee for a technical examination. I always do. A criticism of the beer moderation scheme is raised from the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned this, and I have taken note of the criticism that has come from the Brewery Association and asked that they be invited to a meeting so that we can find out what is up and down. When we make these changes, it's about complying with EU rules. And I also hope and believe that the Brewery Association agrees with that. Perhaps we can then discuss together what is also a wish of mine and which has also been raised by a number of rapporteurs here today, namely to improve the arrangements for small breweries. But what the framework is, we need to clarify with the Brewery Association, and hopefully we can learn more about that before the second and third readings of the proposal. I would like to make that commitment, and we are committed to it. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also had a question about how far back should we go back to 2013? And I'd like to take a closer look at that. In relation to Mr. Rune Lund and the question of thin capitalisation, I do not want to go into such a detailed legal statement here from the platform. I just have to say that when we make this change, it is to comply with EU rules and to comply with that judgment. And I also hope that Enhedslisten is a party in which it is so that, although you may not agree with all EU legislation, I personally am not so much a law, and we live in a constitutional state. And when there is a judgment in a court that a majority in the Folketing has agreed to, then it must also be respected. And that's why we're making these changes. Finally, before I sign up for the debate that has taken place and there may be questions, I should like to say that I have received the understanding from the corridors down here that, although it has not been said, the Radical Left is supporting the bill as it stands with some comments during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202044	It is good to know for the Minister that the Radical Left supports the proposal. Maybe it's a little late. But okay, it's late at night. There are just a few comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202057	Thank you. I would like to say first of all that it can of course be a service to the Folketing that you do not have 12-13 different very narrow proposals. But just to take one example: the first on the change in the definition of permanent establishment and when to pursue a professional activity: I think that is what the Minister ought to know, too, that there are several parties in the Folketing who think that the discussion in principle is actually a matter of principle. The Ministry itself writes in the observations in the bill that this comes from the fact that in this rule of agent in OECD model agreements there has been a change of opinion, which means that some, for example, a capital fund, would have a permanent establishment in Denmark and therefore was taxable in Denmark. And then, frankly, the Minister says from Parliament's platform: we are not interested in that, we are not interested in them being taxed in Denmark. So now we're making the law so that we actually get around the OECD's new understanding of this agent rule. That's a matter of principle. The Minister knows very well how much discussion we have about taxation • about when you are taxed in one place or another. Then the Minister may have an ideological reason to avoid, for example, that. capital funds must be taxable in Denmark. But I just think it takes a little more discussion than putting it in among something that is organisation according to EU legislation and a little less change. I think this is a fundamental discussion. So if the Minister has any comments on the specific part of the proposal, he may make them. Otherwise, I think we should also discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202249	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202250	Well, as I said openly and honestly in my speech, this is about, not what is to be paid in tax, because that is not being changed, but an uncertainty as to whether you risk having a permanent establishment in Denmark. You can then choose to trust Danish pension funds, who come and say they have done that to me together with a number of others, among others. their trade association: This will ensure that important investments to support growth and jobs in Denmark and also ensure a good return to Danish pension customers are frightened in some other places. I don't want that, and that's why we're making this change. However, I recognise, of course, that it is quite reasonable to raise that discussion. I hope that the SF will end up in the same place as I am, and I look forward to taking that discussion further during committee reading. I would like to say that the debate we have had today actually shows that the Danish Parliament and the Danish Parliament's talented tax rapporteurs can easily manage a legislative proposal containing more than just one element. But I acknowledge the criticism. But unfortunately, as I said, this has been customary in the area of taxation. We can try to limit it, but I think it will be difficult to remove completely as a result of what is in force in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202416	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202418	One of the things that prompted me to speak was that the Minister used the expression that this change would prevent the creation of strange structures fiscally. I laughed at that a little bit. For we are probably some who think that there are already very many little artificial constructions, in relation to where you are subject to tax and so on. But is it not true from what the comments say that the change in relation to the agent rule means, for example, that a representative in Denmark. In other words, if you have a representative of a fund, for example, will it be possible for him to be present to be liable for tax in Denmark, and will the government bypass that? So is this Danish change not clearly contrary to a reinterpretation of the OECD Model Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202520	We follow the OECD model agreement, but Denmark, like a number of other countries, also has some places where we go ahead or do things a little bit differently. I still think that we can easily have this, while supporting the international debate on our tax rules. I think you can still have that. It is very possible that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is right in her point, but that does not mean that we should not make the sensible change that is here in the bill, which allows Danish pension funds to offer funds that can ensure a good return to Danish pension customers and secure risk capital for Danish companies and investments in infrastructure in Denmark. It will benefit Danish society, also more than respecting every detail of the OECD model agreement. It's just a model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202612	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202613	This is an interesting point of view... which I assume is a view that represents the government... that law is law when it comes to judgments from the European Court of Justice. I am thinking of the Tele2 judgment of December 2016, when the European Court of Justice decided for the second time that the mass surveillance that is taking place by teleloging is illegal for Danish citizens and that it should be abolished. And then we have a Minister of Justice who simply refuses to follow that judgment because he says he is working on a solution. There is certainly not much law about it. When we talk about thin capitalisation, where in the Enhedslisten's optics some tightening is needed, because these are some tax gaps that we would like to close to a greater extent, one then has a relaxation. There, it seems, one is not even interested in looking at how to test the legislation. I just think that one minister is, frankly, completely indifferent to the judgments that come from the European Union, and then we have a tax minister who says that law is law, and it just needs to be respected, and we should not question anything at all. My question will be, and that is in relation to the WLTP tests: what is the tax minister doing to check whether cheating has been done for the 24 billion? kr., which seems to have been missing in the period 2010-2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202734	Thank you. I completely disagree with that interpretation, sir. Rune Lund has of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice's relationship with law. It is my clear view that we have a very good Minister of Justice who is doing a great deal to comply with the legislation in force and, of course, to comply with EU legislation. So the difference between the two questions is that the Ministry of Justice says that there is uncertainty about the scope of the judgment and about what to correct. There's a clear assessment from the Treasury Department. This is something that the legislator owes it to him to listen to. I very much hope that Enhedslisten will. It is, of course, a party that is on a legal order agenda, and then it is strange that when there is a judgment from the European Union, we should try to get around it, because it is inconvenient. I find that hard to understand. In relation to Mr. Rune Lund's second question, I would like to look at what can be done, but the really big problem is that there have been some measurement methods that the European Union and the Commission and those who had to check them have validated. And if we're gonna come after someone with a post-clearance recovery, it's people who bought a car. I do not want to be involved in sending an extra bill to a lot of Danes who have bought a car where they suddenly have to pay more in tax, because some car manufacturers may have deliberately, perhaps not intentionally, validated by the EU, not been able to calculate the right CO2 that is not fair to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202901	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202901-2	Well, maybe cheating's been going on. After all, we have seen with diesel cars how cheat software has been put in them, so that they have appeared more environmentally friendly than they really are. Volkswagen, for example, has also admitted that they have done so. It could be the same here just in relation to CO2 What are some initiatives currently being undertaken by the Minister for Tax to investigate whether cheating has taken place here? That's one thing. The second thing is the forward-looking. After all, we are missing billions of dollars, because the test that this bill is going to introduce is not true either. It is basically unsatisfactory that we have adopted legislation on how the registration fee system should be and how the kilometric allowance should be for particularly environmentally friendly cars, and then we have some tests that measure completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508202952-2	Of course, we can choose to abolish the entire registration fee, because then we are beyond the problem. It is not my impression that Enhedslisten wants what is a gesture from the Liberal Alliance and it would also require a significant level of funding. So I think we have to live with the fact that we have a registration fee. And even with the reductions that we have made and which I am proud to have helped as tax minister to implement, I think it is only fair that people can get a bigger and more roadworthy car then we will be charging registration fees in the future too. Then we have to base ourselves on something, and there it is the best we have, and then we have to be honest about the uncertainty. Just as when you have to make a property assessment and assess a home, it will always be an assessment. But we'll have to choose the best rating... but it'll always be an assessment. How far a car travels on the liter is also slightly dependent on whether it is Mrs Pernille Skipper or Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who sits in the car, whether it's filled with a man or five. So there will always be some uncertainty. I recommend supporting this bill so that we get more accurate fuel measurements than those we have today. When new measurement methods come in, we need to see if we can improve the legislative proposal we have, but there will always be some uncertainty. We must be honest about that, and we must accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203112	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203114	Thank you. It is also about this new system of measuring fuel consumption better, and it is quite positive that we want to make it more accurate. It was a Regulation adopted on 1 June 2017 and it was introduced so that it could enter into force on 1 September 2017. Throughout that process, we were negotiating quite intensively on car taxation and making an agreement on 21 September, i.e. right after. Then I just want to know why we were not told and why it was not included in the discussions. The DKK 1.5 billion. We might have been able to modulate with this in a lasting way when we tried to change car taxes. We wanted it to be more technically based, and there this could have been part of the exercise. I would also like to hear whether the government was aware at the time that this exercise was under way in the European Union, which had already been adopted, and that it actually had quite significant revenue implications for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203208	Thank you for the question. As I have been informed, it was not known that this was the consequence. If it had been so, it would of course have been submitted to that group and acted at the same time. After all, we do not disagree with the parties behind the agreement to lower registration fees. It is the government parties and the Danish People's Party in this matter. But at that time it was believed that a conversion could be made so that one did not run into making this change of law. It has then turned out that the conversion is inaccurate and will move on the taxation within the different car classes too to a rather large extent and this then led to us having to make this bill. We became aware of this in the Ministry of Taxation because Danish car importers, after the agreement was concluded, pointed out that this is a problem. As I understand it, they had also expected that this conversion could be done and that we were not in a situation where we were forced to legislate. I find that unfortunate, but on the other hand I find it difficult to see that with the knowledge I have had, I could do it very differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203316	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203318	The paradox is that one had expected that one could just make a conversion, and then it gave the same, for then the assumption must have been that the new measurement method was as poor as the old one. If you expect to get a better measurement method, which is more accurate and we have set up our system after you get supplements and deductions, according to how far the car runs per. I think it is natural to conclude that this will have some revenue implications. That is, if, according to the sales layout, a car runs 20 km on the liter, but actually only runs 18, then the new inventory method will show that it only runs the 18 km that it actually does, and then it affects the charges. That is why we are here today with 1.5 billion. How could you expect to just make a conversion? For then it would have been assumed that what was adopted by the EU regulation, that is, the WLTP scheme, had no effect. And it's a little remarkable if you've been sitting and counting like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203407	I believe that one of the things that has become more aware is the difference between the different car categories, the different car models. It has been thought that a conversion could be made. As I understand it, it was also the view of Danish car importers. After all, Danish car importers were not that enthusiastic at first, so I also think that if this had been a problem they had been aware of at that time, they would have problematized it in public as part of that discussion, also with the government, about which model to choose. And that's where Danske Carimporters wanted to join with others. The Danish People's Party would rather have a technical solution. So it is my clear opinion that this is something that was not thought to be a problem, and certainly not a problem that should be bothered by politicians. So it has been, and here we are today. I am sorry, I am sorry, but I find it difficult to see that things could be done differently. And in the Treasury, of course, we take down the criticism Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær quite rightly puts forward that in relation to the process we must learn to do better another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203512	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203514	Yes, first of all I want to talk about the process of the bill and the fact that so many things are gathered in a • what the minister also commented, because we were several rapporteurs who mentioned it • say that I have not heard anyone asking the Minister to go to change the constitution, in relation to what the rules of how taxes are to be levied on the basis of a law are. But perhaps I just have the profitable hope that such a slightly clearer division of the things that are being put forward and that, if such a proposal ends up with a lot of things in it, perhaps it came at a slightly better omen than at the last possible date of submission. I think we may all have a drawer at home in the kitchen that you put everything in, and someday it has to come out and become practical. But that drawer must be cleaned up a little sooner, I think, than at the very end and under great pressure of time if there is to be quality in legislation. Then I would like to ask whether, if it turns out that this is a deterioration for electric cars, hybrid cars and hydrogen vehicles, the car part of the proposal will be prepared to look at it, that is to say, do some special things for it or take into account it in the way we work this together in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203631	First of all, I would like to say that I am committed to good legal quality. I think we will also see, if we look at the legislative proposals put forward in the years I have been Minister for Taxation, that there has been a major improvement in which legislative proposals have been submitted in consultation and how long they have been in consultation and, moreover, how much has been listened to in the consultations. This is a political priority on my part, and I would have liked to have tabled this bill at the beginning of the session. But it is also, as Mr. Jesper Petersen himself referred to a collection of some of the problems that have arisen. Some of this may also be about the fact that there is a high capacity pressure on the Treasury. It's not an excuse, it's just an explanation. We have decided to set in motion a huge process of rebuilding the tax administration. It's going in the right direction. We have some huge development projects. We have a lot of political agendas, and I am also trying to take into account what the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee may want, and that means that quite a lot of work is being delivered. And when a lot of work is done, mistakes are sometimes made. I forgive my officials as long as they don't make the same mistake several times in a row, because then it's a problem. I also hope that the Folketing will look graciously at this bill so that we can run it through. Then I will give the undertaking that I will try to put forward the joint proposal or the legislative mix-up, which I believe was the expression Jesper Petersen used in his rapporteur's speech at the beginning of the next session, so that the abuse can be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203756	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203757	That's good. Then I have to ask again about the car part. The Minister's speaking time was probably up, so now there will be another chance to respond. I can then clarify the matter a little by saying that we, as a party to the agreement on the continuation of the preferential treatment for electric cars, would like us to see it go a lot faster in terms of spreading those cars and that it is also going slower than what the Ministry of Taxation's own calculations suggested it would in the rounds we have discussed these things. That is why we have a number of proposals on how we could push progress forward, and I hope the tax minister will support them. After all, they will only be even more necessary if it is indeed the case that the draft law here and the conversion factor that is being proposed do not fully take into account the desire to favour the green car types that we would like to have, and which are also in the spirit of the agreement we have with the government. So I hope you will listen to that if there is a need to do something special for them or to change the conversion in order to spread these green car types more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203912-2	I would like to share that in the legislative proposal. In addition to being morally bound by the agreement of the government with the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party on electric cars, the government is also morally bound by the agreement we have with the Danish People's Party on registration fees in general. So it is equal to maneuvering not in shark-filled waters, but in waters where all parties feel that the agreements that have been reached are being honoured. Let's see if that can't be done. In any case, I shall look forward to further discussing the matter with Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen tomorrow, when I look forward to answering a few § 20 questions about precisely electric cars, just put by Mr. Jesper Petersen. I look forward to answering them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508203955	With that, we can thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204011	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204033	The bill implements the tax and pension agreement entered into by the government with the Danish People's Party back in February. The backdrop to that agreement was a longer run on fiscal policy and concrete government action in this area from August. Here the government proposed to reduce the tax, preferably to the most wealthy Danes, for 15 billion. kr. in case of deterioration of the child's check. Now we are dealing with a significantly smaller agreement, the main content of which is a solution to the problem that for some people it has not been worth saving up to retirement for a period, also known as the problem of interaction. Let me therefore begin by saying that it is extremely gratifying that the government did not succeed in achieving such substantial reductions in the tax as it was announced. Had this happened, it would have been very problematic for our welfare, which is already under pressure in a number of areas where the challenges are growing in the coming years and where quality obviously costs. Once that joy has been established, we must also say that the bill here is more expensive and the measures are more socially biased than we had hoped would end up with. We have a draft law which, according to the Ministry of Finance's own reply, provides a total tax relief to the Director, which is twice as large as the tax relief to the HK at minimum wage. At the same time, the agreement brings with it a significant feature in the economic space at a time when welfare could so much use a boost. Too many places do welfare workers run faster and faster, and no matter how many hours are spent at work, they have the experience that there is not enough time for the most important: the patients and children, pupils, the elderly or the disabled, whose well-being, development and welfare are the reasons why they meet at work. As political parties, we need to take stock of this, at least those of us who are committed to having a strong and inclusive and well-functioning welfare society for all. This bill is therefore, unfortunately, a step in the wrong direction in the context of economic priorities. Then I would like to say a few words about the more concrete elements in which the main gravity is in the area of pensions. It is proposed to introduce an equational deduction for pension payments of up to DKK 70,000. per year for persons with less than 15 years of age to retirement age. In the Social Democratic Party we ourselves have proposed such a deduction because we have long been calling for a solution to the problem of interaction, which affects the low and middle-income groups in particular. It can be a sensible incentive to ensure that saving for your own pension is better paid. But we regret that you have landed on this particular model, because the fact is, compared to the high maximum of DKK 70,000, that the last part of it primarily benefits the most prosperous. In order to deal with the interplay problem, such a large deduction was not necessary. How many 3Fs or sosu workers are the ones who put such a large amount of money in private savings per year should be the rhetorical question here, because there are not very many of them. A recent reply, which we have received from the Ministry of Finance, shows that when you determine what the distribution effects are, it turns out that a director is expected to gain a profit of just under DKK 6,000. a year out of the pension allowance, while an HK on a minimum wage receives about DKr 1,500 per year. a year out of the new deduction. The director is therefore set in crowns and ears four times as good as the employee at minimum wage. This seems to us to be an awkward and biased arrangement for a deduction which should take account of the low-wage groups. We have asked the Minister to put forward a proposal on how a revenue-neutral change in this proposal for a pension allowance could be made more socially balanced. We hope that we will be able to go further in the committee procedure and that the bill will then give more parties the opportunity to reconsider, if we could not make a fairer arrangement for the proposed pension allowance I know you can. In addition to the pension part, the bill also contains a number of minor tax reductions, which are actually more sensible in terms of distribution policy • they benefit ordinary Danes in work: a new job allowance, an increase in the ceiling on the employment allowance by DKK 1.000. and a reduction of the base tax by 0,02 percentage points. It is important for me to make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party are not in principle opposed to lowering the tax, especially if we do it at the bottom, where ordinary employees are experiencing the gain, but there must be money for it, and the order must be right. First of all, we need to ensure security of welfare, and that is why the social democracy's first priority is that we, as a society up to 2025, should have money to cover the costs resulting from, fortunately, having both older and more children. With the bill, the government and the Danish People's Party spend quite a considerable part of the economic space to be used there to lighten the tax with a hundred kroner bill per month for people in work. In fact, the agreement costs approx. 5 billion kr. a year, a significant part of which will come from the room for manoeuvre in the state economy, which has emerged mainly from reforms that were sold to the people with the argument that sufficient funds were then provided for the future's welfare. It seems difficult to keep that promise to the Danes if these tax reductions are implemented, and therefore we cannot support that part of the bill. With the arguments I have put forward here, we will be constructive in the work of the committee that is coming. We hope that there will be support for two amendments to the proposal, on the one hand, a more social arrangement of the proposed pension allowance, so that it will provide more incentives to save the people who are actually affected by the problem of interaction at the lower end of the income scale, and, on the other hand, an elimination of the tax cuts which are not really necessary but which, in turn, are expensive and cost too much on the welfare account. If these things succeed, we will be able to support the bill, and otherwise it will be clear from my speech that we believe that the government has chosen lower taxes on quality in everyday welfare, and our priorities are different. This time I must remind you that the Radical Left has asked me to salute and say that they also support a solution to the problem of interaction, but, like the Social Democrats, they are critical of the overall economic priorities of which the draft law is an expression. I am sorry that I went a little over the speaking time here, but in return I might be able to make a small cut in the radical speaking time, which will then not be used later. Thank you for the patience of the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204658	There's a lot of goodwill. We are now getting a question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204702	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One of the things I noticed was that it was thought to be socially skewed was the expression that I think it was used so that the director got 6,750 kroner. And a HK got 2,800 kroner. Of course there is a difference, we are in agreement with that, but it is also a somewhat larger difference in income. What just sounds a little hollow is that if you compare with the tax reform that Mr. Jesper Petersen's own party helped in 2012, so it was said for HK'eren DKR 2,800, i.e. exactly the same as in the reform we are discussing today. But then it was for the director, $1,500, five times as much as for the HK. There was therefore a much greater tax relief for the director with the reform that was carried out in 2012. And then it sounds a little hollow when you say this is crazy. If you measure the Gini coefficient, as you do, and which is a little technical, then with this agreement you increase the Gini coefficient by 0.12, where with the tax reform that Jesper Petersen's party itself was involved in as a government party it was 0.27. So whether you measure in crowns and ears on family types, or whether you measure in relation to the Gini coefficient, the 2012 reform was much more inequitable than the one made here, and that is why I think it seems a little funny that compared to that part you are very negative about it, because historically I don't think you have actually made a lot of tax reforms that are as similar as this one. I agree that it gives a greater relief to those who earn a great deal of money, but that is the percentage bill in the Danish tax system. But to say that it's crazy off, compared to what you've done yourself, 2012, I think I'm a little funny.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204833	Thank you. I could of course use many different things there to have this more historic discussion about fiscal policy measures. But I just have the individual comment that if we are finally to start measuring up how the various measures have been, then what Dansk Folkeparti contributed to the hallway before, the even more, what to say, is socially skewed in its distribution profile, where you really gave a strong push into the top tax in what was actually the highest marginal tax at that time. So that way I may not think you as a party have so much to come by here. Then Dennis Flydtkjær is right that a tax reform was also carried out before what was, after all, a lot about increasing the employment allowance. It was the primary issue and then dealing with the problem that the top tax had begun to include some as it was actually intended. And that's where we solved it. But that is what we have to look at: what is the need today and how to work a solution to the interaction problem together? And what I said was the difference between the HK and the director, after all, is the way in which the new pension allowance has been made, in which an unnecessary deduction is made in order to solve the interplay problem, and which ends up with those who really need it not need one that is so large, on the contrary, a tax relief is just relaxed from the side, and that is not necessary. I don't understand why the Danish People's Party wants that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508204959	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205000	I had noticed the very positive thing in the hearings that these three parties have come together. I think it's the LO, Insurance & Pension and the Danish Employers' Association and actually praise this initiative because it's a good way to solve it. They have, of course, sent a letter in which they actually propose virtually the same as they write in the hearing answer. It is normal, however, that at least the LO are some in which the Social Democratic Party is very much reflected, and it makes sense that they have many good views. Then I don't understand why you think this is so wrong. Then there's one other thing, like Mr. Knox. In the rapporteur's speech, Jesper Petersen said that much of it was room for manoeuvre. Actually, it is not, for the 2.5 billion. kr. The pension part came from the agreement of June last year, which was targeted to be spent on this. Then there was a billion. kr. from the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits, and I agree to disagree with that, but it is not, after all, a room for manoeuvre. So can we not just confirm, after all, that it is not true that it is purely room for manoeuvre? After all, there was also some money from the principle of profit, self-payment of Danish education and so on. So there is room for manoeuvre, but the impression was made that it was almost purely room for manoeuvre, and it was not really. In other words, there is still the possibility of covering the demographic trait that we are discussing a great deal in here. Can't you just confirm that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205108-2	Now Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær looked somewhat at his question as it was asked, because I did not say that there was pure room for manoeuvre, but there is considerable room for manoeuvre. That's 2.5 billion. kr. over the years, and it is money that has been said to people should be spent on improving welfare and making sure that it was affordable when there were more older people in the population, among other things. with the cash benefits and early retirement agreements that Dansk Folkeparti helped to make with Lars Løkke Rasmussen when he was Prime Minister last time. Now you use them instead of here, and that is what I really think the Danish People's Party should reconsider, so if it is not more important to make sure that there is money for the elderly not to stay in bed too long without getting up, do not experience the unworthy situations we have seen, where you wear the same diaper for too long, or educators who are in situations with too many children at once. And that's the priority you end up doing here. There are things that are unnecessary to do in the area of taxation, where money is relaxed and taken away from economic scope and therefore cannot be used for the welfare reasons we think it should be spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205207	Then there is a question from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205210	Of course, we have a political disagreement about taxes. We think it's a good thing to lower the tax. We also think it is well-being to increase the room for manoeuvre of employees, their own room for manoeuvre. It must also be understood that employees feel that this is important. They have been very concerned about wage negotiations, which are also in percentage terms, so those who earn the most make the most of it in crowns and ears. I have not heard the Social Democracy problematizing that, which one might find a little funny. However, my question was actually about the fact that, when they were in government, the Social Democracy wanted a growth in public spending of 0.6%. As far as I know, public consumption has also been 0.6% here. in the most recent finance laws that have been concluded. Personally, I think it's too loud. I think it should be lower, but it sounds enormously hollow when the Social Democrats stand and say that there is no money for welfare, understood as public welfare, when public spending increases with what the Social Democrats themselves wanted public spending to increase with when they made their 2025 plan. So how does it work? How can something that was right when you were in government be wrong now when you are in opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205332-2	I understand that this is such an exciting polemical way of setting things up. I just don't think the description is right. What is the policy of the government, the government of which the Liberal Alliance is a part, is that every time there are two older citizens more, you only want to set aside money for one. That is economic policy. You only want public growth, which is half what population development requires. That is the discussion we have. And when we come forward a little in the years, we can just start to see what this government is like emptying the treasury. It is about to distribute a lot of money in various forms of relief, those we have not been able to prevent, and in other places some agreements have been made which also take some money from the economic space. We are about to be where we cannot live up to what we think is important, namely to ensure that, when there are more older people and more children, we also have to be able to afford them a decent quality of everyday well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205437	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205438	The speaker is from the Parliament's platform, claiming that the Treasury has been emptied. But so, public finances are sustainable. There is a balance in public finances. Public finances are sound. It has to be said that the increase in public consumption, which I think is far too high, under this government is above the demographic trend of 0.65%, which is precisely that, Mr President. Jesper Petersen's own government wanted Mr. Jesper Petersen's party was in government. That was the plan that was made at the time when it was said that we want public consumption to increase by 0.6%. Then it must also have been starvation of the public sector when public consumption is now 0.6%. That doesn't make sense. Well, it's so easy to figure out that it's, like, sir. Jesper Petersen says he's just a polemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205539	I completely disagree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, and I believe that the truth is simply not told about what political priorities we are in. Because this isn't about looking at what public growth was last year. It is about looking at what the priority we are discussing right now means, that is, the legislative proposal we are discussing now. What does it mean for the opportunities you have when we get there in the years? We can see how the spending of money is because of this bill in the years to come. When that happens, what is the possibility of having the funds in the public sector that are needed in order to run it in a dignified and good way and to make sure that there is time for patients and pupils etc. Out there? It's okay, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is less interested in that than we are, I agree, but that is the priority here, and we must stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205627	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205630	Thank you. I understand that the Socialists are trying to build a story about welfare or tax relief. It is a complete déjà vu compared to 2011, when the Social Democrats ran exactly the same election campaign, which is even less in the accusations now than there was then. At that time, the Social Democrats promised gold and green forests, which they did not obtain when they came to power. However, in order to demonstrate that we are not emptying this at all, can the rapporteur tell me how much it is that the Socialists think there should be room for manoeuvre by 2025 before there is room for the welfare that the Socialists think is right if you look at the social democrats' proposals? How much room should the room be in 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205708	It must be the case that there can be growth in the public sector, at least in line with what is called the demographic trait, that, as there are more older people, there will also be more children, and that you will then have the opportunity to keep up with and ensure that you have at least the quality you have today. However, there are also many points in which we do not think it is working well enough today. There are too many cases of pupils leaving school without being able to do what they have to do, there are elderly people who are in situations that are not worthy, there are educators who have too many children, where it can be both dangerous but also does not provide the well-being and the development that we are supposed to have. And that is where we are about to be, where this bill has so much taken place in economic space that it is simply going to be difficult. There we have a priority which says that we must ensure that this is done first. We need to take care of our welfare first. Then we can see if there is money for lower taxes, and then we will also have an overall distribution of taxes if you can afford that is different from what the government wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205813	I understand that sir. Jesper Petersen does not want to say the figure, but, as the Social Democrats say, there must be an economic space in 2025 of 26 billion. kr., and after this deal there's a room for manoeuvre of 32 billion. kr. This amounts to a surplus of 6 billion. kr. beyond what is needed in order to maintain the level of welfare. In fact, there is still plenty of room for that welfare. So it is a long-standing nonsense that comes from the Socialist rapporteur. Let me hear: do the Social Democrats then want to roll this back if the terrible thing should happen that the Social Democrats gained power after the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205847	Yeah, the thing about whether it's awful or not, the voters are going to judge. As it has been for a long time, it seems that most voters do not think it is so terrible even. And I think so, among other things. has to do with this debate, that you don't have an experience that government parties take seriously the situation that very many people experience when sending their children to day care centres and schools or when they visit their parents at the nursing home. You just have to deal with that, including as a government party. With the seizure that is being placed on the money now, that is to say, you take about DKK 2 billion annually of the economic space in the years from 2020 onwards, you cannot also spend that money on strengthening the quality of welfare. That is where we put our priorities, so that we make sure that these things work before we enter into a discussion on whether there is money to put the tax down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205938	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen, there are no more brief remarks. We're gonna move on, and then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508205946	As you know, this is the implementation of the agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, which, after all, had two main objectives, the one to solve the problem of interaction, so that it can pay more to save up for pensions because there have been many years in the past when it has not been worthwhile and the other to give relief to people with low incomes so that it can pay better to work. It must be admitted that the process has not been very pretty, but I think the result has been quite fine and an excellent compromise. We actually saw it as two isolated exercises that had to end. The first was that a pension agreement was made back in June last year, which gave us 21⁄2 billion. kr. extra in the box. And we agreed that we would meet again and find out how we could translate them so that it would pay to save up for retirement. The second was that we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, which gave approx. 1 billion kr. in the box, and we wrote into the text of the agreement that that money should be spent on a targeted reduction so that it pays better to work. That is what we have achieved and what we are dealing with today, and so we will finish the two isolated exercises. The first part is the introduction of a new pension allowance, which, as I said, was a natural follow-up to the agreement called "More years on the labour market," in order to solve the problem of interaction. It simply did not work out that there were a great many Danes who, in principle, became ridiculous because they found out that they had actually lost saving up for pension. So that's why we've introduced this new deduction, which is going to help correct it. It becomes so with the deduction that when you have more than 15 years of age until your retirement age, you get an additional 12 per cent deduction. If you have between 15 and 5 years of age until retirement age, it will be 32%. with a ceiling of max. 70,000 kroner. a year. Then there is one thing that we are really happy about in the Danish People's Party, namely that we have made it so that the deduction starts already at 0 DKK. So from the first crown you pay, you get the extra deduction. I mention this because it was not really what was proposed by the government, and we really only think it is quite reasonable that everyone should have this deduction right from the start of course. We think that's an important fingerprint that we've got on this deal. Then, as something new, there is a job deduction of 41⁄2%. of the part of the income exceeding DKK 87,500, up to a maximum of DKK 2,500. As I said, it is money from the cash aid ceiling, and we think it makes sense that it is targeted at the lowest incomes, which has always been the focus of the Danish People's Party, even though we actually noticed that there was a certain head of government who was out in the media up to the end and saying the opposite, namely that it was the Danish People's Party that would not help to give a targeted relief to the lowest-paid. Of course, we found this a bit provocative, because it has always been our focus that it should be precisely targeted at the lowest-paid, and of course with the argument that, as we have been told by the ministries, there are about 21,000 people in Denmark who receive less than DKr 2 000. out of going to work every day. We in the Danish People's Party find that very little to gain from going to work, and we would like to reward them. But I would also like to say that we are rather annoyed that this point, on the other hand, makes our tax system more complicated. We would actually have liked it to be solved by changing the existing employment allowance. Some of the same things could be achieved there. It would be a little less targeted, but would, after all, be simpler than what you have ended up in here. But I have to say that what we are left with, after all, has become a fine compromise, that it has ended well and that it has become a targeted relief that we would like to have. Then there is an extension of the employment allowance, so pension payments are also included. This is very much to the benefit of those with the lowest incomes who do not already take advantage of the maximum amount of the employment allowance they have. This means that there are a lot of people who have low incomes and who reach the employment allowance ceiling earlier than they do today, and we think that is quite positive as well. It's also something that actually helps solve this interplay problem, so the two exercises are connected. Then there is a small relief in the bottom tax, and that is actually something that I see as being outside of the two isolated exercises we have done, because it actually comes from the fact that KL and the government had allocated some money to the municipalities to reduce the tax. They did not, and we have then used the money allocated to it to reduce the base tax by 0.02%. It is just to say that it is not an indication that it was, like, the level of ambition and that that is what could be achieved. It was, in fact, more of a technical correction to an agreement concluded between the KL and the government. Overall, it can be said that the goal of the Danish People's Party, when we entered into these negotiations, was that we wanted to solve this interplay problem, that it should be worth saving up, and, if it was affordable, that we would like to contribute to a relief at the bottom. And as the debate has already shown, it has actually succeeded very well, I think, because it was not these historic tax concessions that there were discussions about a transition. There was a good tax agreement, but also a somewhat smaller tax agreement. But I also think it is important that we are told that it is actually ensured that there is room for what is called the demographic trait, in other words that there will be more elderly people, that there will be some health costs and other things, and that is there, after we have made this agreement, and therefore we can fully measure it. Because when you figure out the demographic move, it's 26 billion. kr., and as Louise Schack Elholm said, after this agreement there is an agreement about approx. Thirty-two billion. kr. More towards 2025. That is why we can stand by, because what we have been saying all along is that there should be room for us to have more elderly people, but that, if we could afford it, we would help to lighten the tax at the bottom. Finally, I can give such an overall view if there is time for it, namely that what perhaps sums it up very well is that simple solutions that solve the problems and at the same time have a good distribution problem are not easy to find in a tax agreement, and this is perhaps a very good proof of this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210533	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210538	One can say that it may well be that what the government was playing out with was even more crooked, but one can say that it had not succeeded in concluding this crooked agreement if it had not been for the Danish People's Party. Now Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær himself the targeted job allowance, the so-called targeted job allowance, but when you look at it, you have to say that the 10%. with the lowest incomes get 20 DKK, while the 10%. with the highest incomes get just over DKr 2 000, and if you look at how less revenue is distributed, i.e. who benefits from the money, it costs a total of 1.4 billion. kr. a year. The 160 million. kr. of the 1.4 billion kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So is it not more right to say that to the extent that this deduction is targeted, is it targeted them with the highest incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210637	No, it is not, because it has to be seen in the context of the debate that has been going on for a long time and the buttons that have been considered to be screwed up. One has been to move the top tax line and completely remove the ceiling. It would be a top tax reduction and would certainly have an effect all the way up. This one doesn't, because there's a maximum of $2,500. It starts quite low and targets those who are in full-time employment and earn from 187.500 DKK, as far as I remember, and it is after all those at the bottom that it is targeted in that way. But it is true that it is a percentage, and that is why it is clear that the more money you make until you get to the ceiling of the 2,500 DKK that you can get maximum, the more of course you get out of it, and if you want to make it different and everyone should have exactly the same out of it, you should just raise the bottom allowance. But what we want, as I said in my speech, is to do something for the people, that is to say the approximately 21 000 people who received less than DKr 2 000. I would also like to point out that we want to do something for a greater incentive for it, also because the money comes from the ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits, and that is why we think it makes good sense to make such a targeted intervention, an attempt to relax at the bottom of those who are in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210743	You push in, sir. Rune Lund, because if it's so late that you don't want two questions, you shouldn't be burdened with it, but go ahead with Mr. Rune Lund. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210752	Thank you. I just think it is very strange to talk about a job allowance which should be targeted at people with the lowest incomes when you can see that virtually all the money goes to people who earn more than a low income. It just doesn't make sense. I also think that the argument lags, because it is true that what the government was playing out with was much more crooked, but this is also wrong, and it would not have been adopted without the Danish People's Party having voted. So the Danish People's Party is helping to make a crooked deal here. Isn't that something that worries the Danish People's Party at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210828	If I bought the premise that it was fucked up, I'd be worried. Actually, I don't think it is. I really think it makes good sense for us to solve the problem of interaction, but also the other part, as Mr von der Vring has said. Rune Lund asks more specifically that we have tried to target them at the bottom with the small revenues, is actually actually quite historic, because when you talk about the tax reform, there have been many years before with the votes of the Danish People's Party, we are at the top of the list, that is to say, the top tax rate, the middle tax or the top tax limit. In fact, it is a tax reform that focuses on the other end, and I do not think that there is any reason to stand and be mean by calling it socially crooked or other things. In fact, I think it is very good that this time we have focused on providing a relief at the other end of the income scale than we have had in the past for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210909	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508210911	I'd like to give Mr. Kim a hand. Dennis Flydtkjær is right that it is far better than what has been done in the past. The question here is whether the economic priority is the right one. Where, however, I think there is reason to ask the Danish People's Party if we can't do this a little better, is where it's about the interaction problem and the pension part. We are also very interested in this change. But if we simply stick to it and do not look at the other things in the proposal, the distribution effects are such that for the HKs there are 1,500 DKK. and for the Director, DKr 6,000. And that is because the pension allowance has been made so large that the director gets the full use of it. And there's really no reason to make it that big. So if you can twist it so that the level is not as high so that it is lower amounts that can be deducted, but a little higher the percentage then the bottom ones get a little more out of it that way. It will be more targeted at the lowest wages. And it will still solve the problem of interaction in the same way as what has been proposed here. Isn't that something we could look at? Wouldn't that just make it better?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211025	These are quite complex issues. But I don't think there's anyone in the Folketing who has no interest in solving it. And we actually got incredibly many models modeled on a lot of things, including... to try to lower the limit of $70,000. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. To raise the percentage. It's modeled in all sorts of different ways. The reason why we ended up here and actually put more money in it than what we had actually set up was that we simply couldn't get the ends to meet. There would always be somewhere where some bumped out in the sense that they were still suffering from the problem of interaction. I think this was the best friendly solution we could find for the money we had and if we had put more money into it, we would probably have been able to do something even better, of course. I fully agree that many of the models which the Social Democratic Party has not, of course, seen because they were not in the negotiations, we can try very well to get the drill in during the committee procedure. But it was my clear impression that this was the best thing possible with the framework we once had at our disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211116	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211117	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we will at least try to get it out of the committee's proceedings, that we will have a solution to the problem of interaction, which is simply more about the low-paid and does not give it unnecessarily large, in our opinion, the relief of the tax for the director and those who earn a great deal of money. If it was a question of having more money into it, then the Danish People's Party could have taken it appropriately from the other part of the bill, where you like to get into making some new reductions of the tax, which is not really much needed. Why, then, was that not the solution, if that was the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211151-2	In other words, a brief explanation of why we did not take some money in the other place is that these were two agreements where there had been a revenue for each of them and where we had tied each other to the fact that the money that came from the cash aid ceiling should go to ease the tax at the bottom and not to the interplay problem. The second part, which is also the challenge, and why it may not be easy for the Social Democrats to be involved in a solution, is that the money, the 2.5 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. When it was put into effect in the Parliamentary Chamber, the Social Democrats voted against it. So it is perhaps difficult to say that you want to help distribute the money and that could be done much better when you are against both the funding and what comes out on the other side. In any case, the Social Democrats lack a lot of funding from the bottom up that is not included in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211231	With that, we can thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211241	Thank you very much. The fact that working better pays off is one of the things that the Left went to the polls at the last time. That's why it's been really important for us to make this deal to reduce taxes on the lowest-paid. This is job reform 2. The first thing we did was to make job reform 1, where we introduced a modern cash aid ceiling and made sure that there is a limit to how much you get in total in benefits, because it has an impact on whether you also want to take a job. The second part of that is that we would like to give a tax relief targeted at the lowest wage incomes. That's why we're now introducing this job deduction. We might have thought it was even bigger, but this is a step in the right direction, and we are very happy about that. You can get a maximum of DKK 640. in tax relief with this job allowance, and it is also a step in the right direction that you now get some more of your own money and therefore get an incentive to take a job. Why is it here to make the incentive to take a job more important to the Left? It is, in fact, because we believe that it is of great human importance that you are actually part of the labour market and can show your children that the way you live is that you are active in the labour market, participate and are part of society. So we think it's really, really positive that we can finally get this job deduction done here today. In addition to the job deduction, one of the other things that we would like to solve in this round is the problem of interaction. For a number of years we have tightened up many of the various favourable pension savings that have been available. We have a situation where we are fewer than has been the case in the past to support more people. That is why all kinds of schemes, pre-retirement and favourable pension savings have been reduced. But that actually caused a problem, because there is a group of people for whom it is no longer worth saving up for retirement. That's never been the intention. After all, the intention has been that people should always have an incentive to save up. What we're trying to solve with this extra pension allowance is that these groups, instead of saying that they're taking time off and not working, say: we'd rather save up and make sure we get a good old age as well. This will all benefit because we lack labour in the labour market, and that is why we need people to have this incentive to stay on the labour market and to make the extra effort and save up for their own pension so that they do not themselves become poor elderly. So we think that's really, really good. In addition, we are expanding, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also mentioned the basis for the employment allowance, so that it includes pension payments, so that the employment allowance as such is not penalised for saving up to pension. We are raising the ceiling for the maximum employment allowance. Finally, we also compensate for the fact that the municipalities did not reduce the tax, as we had agreed, by lowering the base tax in 2018 and the following year. All in all, I think this is a happy day. Now we can finally implement this job allowance that helps to give a greater incentive to work. We on the Left are really, really happy about that. Of course, we support the bill. I also welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately do not have the opportunity to be here, and say that they also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211609	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mr Beazley's position. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508211628	Thank you. On 6 February, the Government and the Danish People's Party concluded an agreement whereby the government and DF will solve the so-called interplay problem by introducing new tax deductions. After all, the problem of interaction arises when it is not worth saving up for pension because, as a pensioner, you end up being drawn into public benefits. But the solution that has been found is no good, because it is antisocial and unfair. I must say that I also think it is a little incredible that the Danish People's Party ends up in a deal that is actually also stoned. We often hear that the Danish People's Party will not pursue a policy of inequality or will not pursue a policy that creates more inequality in society, but this agreement does exactly that. It is true that there is not so much bias in it as the government had originally played out with, but it is still a crooked agreement. First of all, it has to be said that the agreement reverses the heavy end downwards, the higher the income, the greater the gain. Secondly, it must also be said that all those who are old-age pensioners or early retirement pensioners today are actually being cheated, because these tax rebates are only given to people who are working and, now that the tax is being lowered, why should those who have the lowest incomes in Denmark be ignored. If anyone deserves a little more, it must be said that these are the very groups. Thirdly, the agreement means that up to 2025, 8 million will be taken. kr. from the room for manoeuvre which could have been used to ensure better welfare. So welfare must suffer in order for tax rebates to be distributed. In addition, part of the financing of the agreement comes from the deterioration, cuts in cash aid, as we saw in Job Reform 1, which means that thousands of children, because of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule right now, are growing up in poverty. It's deeply unsympathetic. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we want to ensure lower taxes for those who have the lowest incomes, but we certainly do not think that it should be paid by the unemployed, but rather by higher taxes on the richest. Fourthly, it has to be said that the government could have made a much simpler solution to the problem of interaction, namely simply by raising the limit on when pensioners are set off in the pension supplement of the national pension. It is, of course, a simple solution where it would be obvious to the individual pensioner that there will be a gain by saving, even when all the technically complex and quirky tax deductions which may have been obtained following this agreement have probably been forgotten. It would have been a much wiser approach to the problem rather than giving tax rebates that give the most in crowns and ears to those who earn the most. We would like to see such a higher limit before the pension premium is set off, and we would also like to see it financed by removing the deduction option that currently exists for pension payments in the top tax. I have asked the tax minister what it would bring, i.e. if you made such a change, and that would actually bring about 5.2 billion. kr. a year. We really see this as a tax rebate that should be removed because it is a tax rebate where the richest can avoid paying top tax if they pay money into pension savings. We do not think this is fair and we think that the removal of that tax rebate could have financed a sensible change in relation to when you are set off in the pension supplement for the national pension. It would also be funding which would clearly have a social profile in which an improvement in the pension conditions of ordinary people affected by the interplay problem would be paid by those who have the most. Compared to the odds of this agreement, it's incredibly crooked. The 10%. of the population with the lowest incomes, with the agreement's pension allowance, will have a tax reduction of DKK 50. per year, and the richest 10%. will have an average tax reduction of DKK 2,010. This is what we might call redistribution, which will mean a redistribution which will benefit the richest and paid for by all of us. It could be said that the proposal would have been even worse if a maximum limit of DKK 70 000 had not been introduced. for the deduction. Then the agreement also extends the employment allowance to pension payments, and it will also mean that those with the very least will receive the least, as will the increase in the employment allowance by DKK 1.000 in the agreement. Here's 0 kroner. to the 10%. of the population earning at least, and 160 kr. to the 10%. of the population that earns the most. And that's how it's all through the deal, crooked, crooked, crooked, from start to finish. In particular, the targeted job allowance that the government is trying to sell deserves a comment because it should be of particular benefit to the lowest paid, because we can see that the 10%. with the lowest incomes get 20 DKK, while the richest 10%. gets 440 DKK, and when we look at how the cost of this targeted job allowance is spent, we can see that it costs 1.4 billion. kr. a year, but there are only 160 of the 1.4 billion. kr., which goes to those who earn up to 300,000 kr. a year. The rest goes to those who earn more, and the top tax payers alone seize 280 million. kr. To the extent that this deduction is targeted at all, it is precisely targeted at those who earn the most, and not to those who earn the least. It is an overall agreement that is crooked, not as crooked as it could have been, but still very crooked, and it is an agreement that takes away from the room, which could have been used for welfare, and it is an agreement that is also financed through the deterioration of cash aid through the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, and it is an agreement that we, of course, cannot support by any means on the part of the Enhedslisten, and that is why we cannot support this bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212220	No, and so we thank Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments. We'll send the baton to mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212236	Thank you for that, President. The proposal provides for deductions for pension payments, which are granted a job allowance, the basis for the employment allowance is extended by pension payments, and a reduction in the base tax is introduced. The part which concerns the granting of a higher deduction for pension payments is purely a matter of duty to us. It was a basic task that had to be solved. We are economically dependent on people saving up for their own old age, and so it is no good that the system means that a number of people do not get anything out of saving up. Granting deductions for payments and extending the basis for the employment allowance is clearly the cheapest way to try to deal with the problem of interaction. When we introduce this, the relatively positive mechanism also arises that you get more money in your hand now and here when you save up. This may be a good idea, as perhaps not everyone is thinking of the same long-term. In relation to tax reductions at the bottom, it is also very positive to ensure a greater gain by going to work. I would also like to admit that, of course, we had a higher level of ambition overall, but we now think it is a very good agreement that has been made. That is why we also find it incredibly regrettable that taxpayers have to rely on them to rewind when social democracy comes to power. You can therefore look forward to a tax increase in relation to what we are agreeing here, in the event that the Social Democratic Party should gain power, and we think that is a real shame. We have the highest tax burden in Denmark. With this deal, you make sure that 5 billion. kr. are returned to the citizens. That is very good, and I wonder if they will be happy enough for the 5 billion. kr. and will therefore be very sad that the Social Democrats will roll it back when they get power? But we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212440	Then we can thank Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Sir. Jesper Petersen just came on this list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212455	Yes, he did. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen knows what he's doing. It's cleverly done... the microphone has simply gone on strike because we're over at 9:00. 21.15 or something. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen knows what he's doing. So he's gonna make some sort of strawman here that then exactly these things should be rolled back 1:1, and there's tax increases coming and stuff like that. It may be that the government is about to issue an election or something, but then tell us all about it. Because that's not what's here. The government is asking us today whether we are in favour of this priority, and we are saying that we would not do that if it were us. I haven't said anything about the fact that you can count on these taxes to rise again. However, we can be sure that we want a proper quality of welfare to be delivered. And this is where I come to the question: do not make any impression on Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, when you experience what things are like when you talk to people, see in the newspapers; all the examples that are that it has begun to creak with the quality of the common arrangements? I know that one is very ideologically one-sided about putting the tax down, but does it not just appear once in a while that perhaps there was a need for us to actually make sure that the quality of things was linked to everything we say to the citizens that they can count on before lowering the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212615	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212616	Well, that's happy. For Mr. After all, Jesper Petersen stood here on the platform, harceling over this agreement and saying that the Social Democracy will not vote in favour, and it will destroy welfare, and welfare is the most important thing, and that is the first priority for Social Democracy. But now I understand that you don't want to roll it back or do you want to? Actually, I'm a little insecure. There is little uncertainty as to what the Social Democrats really want when elections are held. We know that in the foreseeable future. So the voters don't really know, I have to understand whether it's being rolled back or not rolled back. You havecelerated against it when you stand up here, but now you may not want to roll it back anyway. There is a lot of uncertainty as to what the Social Democratic Party wants in this area. Of course, I think that is a great pity, because I really think that taxpayers can spend this money, their own money, when they are allowed to keep it, which is a consequence of this bill. But it is incredible that we have some of the highest public spending in the world, and yet things do not work in Denmark. I think that's amazing. So perhaps the answer is not just to spend more money, since we now have such high consumption in advance. Perhaps it is to look at how we spend the money and how we can increase efficiency in the public sector • how we get more out of the much money we already spend. Because if you have a system that does not work properly and there are so many complaints about it, it may be because the money is being used incorrectly and not an expression of spending too little money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212746	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, who gets the chance again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212749	In other words, we have had that discussion a thousand times, and the governing parties want us to respond very precisely to all the things that we are being held here and that we do not think are the right way to go. Will it be rolled back 1:1? You can play that game. We will take stock of the economic situation as it stands when we hope to have the confidence of the electorate to lead the country. I didn't say anything about rolling back this proposal 1:1. But we are asked today whether we think this is the right way to prioritise, and then we explain why we don't think it is. Here we go. Joachim B. Olsen on such a thing as waving his nose over the fact that there are some who, like us, have some concerns about how things work out there and refer to all sorts of statistics. We have chosen in Denmark to have a common solution of many things. That is why we also have a higher tax burden than so many other places. I know that's very much against sir. Joachim B. Olsen's ideology. But what one has to take down from the discussion here is that the answer to those who point out that there might be a need to prioritise that money is there when there are more older people, so that they can also have a proper quality of welfare, is that it gets upside down. It is also very good if it is the case that there is a choice close to that the voters can see that it is therefore the difference in the priority between a government party now and some who hope to be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212906	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508212907	I therefore fully agree that the electorate should of course know what it is they will get when they vote for a party. I'm just gonna get confused when mr. Jesper Petersen stands up here, harcelerating against this bill: you will vote against it, it damages welfare, and public welfare is the first priority. I think, like many others, I also think that you'll roll it back if it's so horrible. But maybe you don't want to. In any case, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to what the social democracy really wants in the area of taxation. That may mean tax increases, we must understand. I'm just saying quietly: we have one of the highest public spending in the world. When the service you get is as bad as mr. Jesper Petersen says, I just don't think it seems intuitively right that the answer is to increase consumption by 6 per thousand or 8 per thousand, or whatever you want, and then everything will be happy and old. Then it may be that you have to look at the 500 billion. kr. you use, maybe you can use better if you want better service out on the other end. I guess no one believes that everything will just be cheerful and old-fashioned if you increase budgets by six thousand. Probably nobody can feel that if you don't do anything else. We then think that you should do something else to look at how you got more for the tax dollars. It will bring better welfare, not just spending more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508213026	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508213035	Thank you. In the alternative, we will not be voting in favour of this proposal. There are some reasons for this, which I shall briefly outline. Among other things, it can be done. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals. We think, as several rapporteurs have said, that the way you cut this cake is crooked. We think it is wrong to have increased user fees for the Danish education of the foreign labour force. We do not really think that is holistic. We also find it a pity that you have been inside and cut the cash aid. Having said that, that is to say, the funding that we cannot agree to, it might well be that we could approach a better legislative proposal, which is why we will also be very open in the committee work, although I find it difficult to see that we can come nearer to reporting green to this. But what Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party says could be very interesting, namely to see if some amendments could help solve this interplay problem better. If they can do that, then at least we are pro and go into that work. That was in relation to the bill. So I'm thinking how liberating it is to be able to stand here on such a late night and then think that if I hadn't gotten into this bill really well, I might actually want to just say yes. Well, that sounds pretty reasonable. In fact, I think that the government's proposals are quite sensible in many ways. After all, it is not these tax concessions to parts of the population that are going to erode the well-being of our society. It's not like we're going to say no to this proposal that's going to save the country and secure our welfare. But it is just important to look at the detail, that is to say the devil in the detail here, because the several times you cut the cake as crookedly as I actually think you do here, where you might open up to solve a problem to make tax cuts for someone who doesn't quite have the need to the extent that those who get it communicated as if you help have, the harder it will actually be to see through as a citizen what it really is that we are voting on in here. So, to put it another way, I actually think this bill is quite sensible. It was excellent if, in general, we were better at holding hands under our welfare societies and not cutting those who were the lowest. I guess it's been a few days since I was talking to a woman who told me that she had just started crowdfunding, so that in addition to her cash benefits she got something to get through the month with. It was a well-functioning woman who just isn't exactly in the job now. It may be that they are lazy, I cannot say that, but I could at least feel that there was a very great desire to work. Whatever it is that makes you not going to work, whether it is some extra crowns that are needed before you want or not, in the alternative, we are quite sure that it works for the vast majority of people who are on the edge of society as it does for me. If I am rewarded and motivated, I often want to make a difference and do the right thing. If I'm completely eroded with sorrow, sad and can't see any goal at all, it's incredibly hard to find my zeal and find the desire to participate in society, because then I sit and concentrate on my own belly and look out the window and hope that something happens. How am I supposed to find the power to move on? It could be with a constructive framework, some help, some support, and then there are a lot of citizens who want to make a difference. So let us treat them on the edge of society just as we who are in here feel best, that is to say, to have a sensible framework to work under. Then we will see that it is not a few crowns that make you want to go to work. It is just being able to see that it makes sense and that there is reason and support for one. Then, of course, there will of course be a few people around Denmark who do not have the profits to go out and work for some reason. Maybe somebody's lazy. Let me know if there aren't a few Danes who are lazy. Well, then, we have to look at it, but that is just not how we should organise our society, namely a trust-based society. I have learned from a reasonable professor of democracy that we are a country that has been under absolute monarchy and placed the trust of the king in particular for very, very many years, and that is why we too today dare to base our trust almost unequivocally on the government and believe that the government will do the best for us. I do not think it is in such a country that we should start basing it on mistrust, on whether or not citizens want to work. I think we should deal with those who may have a problem getting out of the couch for some reason. But we must not treat the entire population, large sections of the population, with distrust. That would be too bad. So the alternative is generally against this proposal, but we'll try to see if we can't back Mr. Jesper Petersen's proposal to resolve the issue of interaction in a sensible way through some amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508213501	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508213513	The bill is, after all, the implementation of the agreement concluded by the government with the Danish People's Party and, as several of my colleagues have mentioned, the final result was significantly less than that of the Danish People's Party, and I would like to start by commending the Danish People's Party for that. This is clearly due to the efforts of the Danish People's Party. But we still do not think that the task has been done in a good way. This is a crooked reform, and the problem of interaction and ensuring adequate pension payments, we believe, could well have been made with a more clear socially responsible profile than what ended up being the result, despite the fact that it is significantly better than the government's proposal. So little in relation to the content, as several of my colleagues have said: top tax payers will benefit from a rather large deduction for pension payments, especially if they have the maximum. 15 years back to retirement age, where low-paid people will only be able to take advantage of part of the deduction. Then we can see that those on transfer income receive such a small tax relief as a result of a lower base tax that you can hardly count on it, but it is between DKK 10 and 20. a year. On the financing side, money has been taken from both the room for manoeuvre and the planned increase in public investment, which is, after all, a little the same, and it is therefore a funding with some money that we need to use to safeguard our well-being in the future. We also have a discussion with the Minister of Finance over these days as to whether more money is being spent on the public sector or actually less. It is also a discussion, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen often wants to come from up here, so that we spend more and more money on the public sector. We all know that there is something called demography. We have more elderly people, and there is also an expectation that when we get richer in it, what to say, private societies, there are also expectations that the health system, the care of the elderly, etc. Come with me. We can therefore see that it is going the wrong way, that the relatively moderate increases in public investment do not go with demographics and developments in the rest of society. Then there is one final point: there is in fact a part of the agreement that really does not have any funding, as we can see, because some come from the poverty benefits and another large part from the pension agreement, which really does not provide any extra income, but simply postpones some tax. In this way, as we see it at least, it is a bit of birds on the roof. Then there is what several others have come back to over and over again: who has had to pay for this scheme? Again, it is the recipients of cash benefits who have put a large part of the funding, and we are told that it is because it has to be worthwhile to work. I just think it's interesting to think back to the boom just before the financial crisis, where we barely had unemployment in this country, that is, the labour market unemployed we hardly saw. So when the economy is well underway and there is room for people in companies, including in the public sector, then there is very, very low unemployment. I think there is a lot in here that keeps mixing things up and focusing on a lot of people who are not really ready for work and saying: if they just get some extra whip, they'll probably be ready for work. It is a question of human vision when you think that people should be pushed so hard economically that it will help them to work. We don't think so. So all in all, I would like to congratulate the Danish People's Party once again for actually making this agreement significantly better than what was the government's proposal, but we in the SF cannot support it, and we would also like to make proposals under a new government when we hope to have a new government soon to change some of these things in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214024	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Yes, I'm sorry, sir. Joachim B. Olsen pulled in at the last minute, so we'll take it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214036	I would like to thank the SF for a little honesty there, because it is quite legitimate that there is political disagreement on political proposals. We are, of course, in the nature of things, but I could understand from the last remark that if the disaster were to happen, the power ratio in the Chamber would be changed, in the SF would be open to rolling back some of this so that the money could be spent on other things. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214110	So, as I started out by saying in my speech, there was, of course, a bottom-up task that had to be solved, and that is why this proposal has come through at all. But I also said that we would have liked it to have been resolved in a different way. We believe that the funding for the recipients of cash benefits is socially biased. We think it is a problem to use part of the room for manoeuvre we believe there should be for welfare. Therefore, we would like to make some suggestions that elements of this are being rolled back. Then, of course, we have to find another funding, because the task still has to be solved in relation to interplay problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214141	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214151	Thank you, President. And thank you for, I would like to say, the predominantly positive reception of the bill. There are at least parts of the draft law that have been largely welcomed, and then there are parts that have only been welcomed by a majority of parties. We'll get back to that. After all, the bill translates into the tax reliefs included in the agreement on lower tax on labour and greater deduction of pension payments made by the government with the Danish People's Party in February, an agreement that I, as tax minister, am proud of. I am pleased that we can now put forward a legislative proposal which provides tax relief to ordinary Danes while at the same time contributing to tackling the problem of interaction. It doesn't make happiness any less. I am pleased to note that in the answers received, there is to a large extent a positive sign that the government both facilitates tax relief at work and thus strengthens the incentive to save up to one's old age. The additional pension allowance that we are proposing to introduce should be seen in the context of the agreement for several years on the labour market that we concluded last year with the Danish People's Party. The two agreements combined mean that the incentive to save up to old age is strengthened, and with the additional pension allowance that is part of this bill, everyone who pays for deductible pension savings is granted a tax relief. It is fantastic when you can combine giving more citizens their own money back by supporting them in saving up for their own old age. Then there's the new job deduction. This gives a targeted tax relief to low-paid people in employment, since there is a ceiling on the amount, and therefore it will have the greatest relative effect on low incomes. I would like to make a comment on the consultation responses that are critical of the job deduction. It may be that some people believe that there is no need for tax relief for low-paid hard-working Danes. I am now quite sure that it will be appreciated among the many workers who stand up every day and work hard for their wages. Now they get a tax relief. I would actually have liked it to be bigger than the government wanted it to be but is satisfied with the result that lies and that they are allowed to keep a little more of their own, in some cases hard-earned money. I am of the opinion that, as a starting point, the money is better in the citizens' pockets than in the state treasury where we politicians have it. This is an ideological view which I think should be mentioned in this context. And yes, tax relief also benefits the highest-paid. I think that is quite reasonable. You make sure that it is also worthwhile to work, even if you are not in the low-wage category, but there are, of course, also with the Gini coefficients, which among other things. Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned in his question to Mr. Jesper Petersen, to such an extent balance in this proposal, especially if you compare with previous tax reforms, among others. the tax reform of the former Red Government. That is why I do not understand why we are so critical of the proposal that is here, which is quite balanced. I may understand that one was critical of the government's proposals, but I find it hard to understand that one can be opposed to this compromise, which lies with the Danish People's Party, especially if one is a party representing the working Dane. I recognise that the job allowance does not provide a very large tax relief. The government would have liked to give greater tax relief if it had been possible, but I still find it remarkable that organisations such as FOA and LO during the hearing and in the consultation replies state that the job allowance is superfluous, as it is already worthwhile to work. When I think it is strange and I would like to spend a little time on this today in my ministerial speech, it is because the very same organisations have been part of a very long and perhaps for us all wrestling struggle for higher wages for their members in collective bargaining, and yet they criticise the government for wanting to give tax cuts targeted at the lowest-paid. I do not understand how, on the one hand, you can think that public employees should have much more in the payroll, that this is the right way to do it, but to give them more in the payroll by demanding less in tax is the wrong way to go. The effect is the same, however, with the addition that socio-economically it is much better to give the money through a relief of tax on work that benefits all working Danes than to only give public employees something more in the payroll. I think that if you compare the amounts so that what the trade union movement will not succumb to in relation to the targeted job allowance for the low-paid, they will bow down to so much when it comes to public collective bargaining. I wonder why that view can be taken. I think that is simply strange. You'd think the most important thing was that low-paid people get more money between their hands. It is for the government, and that is why we are pleased with the tax agreement that is here. By the way, we are also pleased with the sensible balanced compromise made in the collective bargaining process, and I hope that it will be voted home. But after those comments, I will sign the debate that has taken place. I look forward to the committee reading and I also hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the bill here during the second and third readings in the Folketing. It's gonna be my ministerial speech. I make myself available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214723	There's one questioner, and that's sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214726	The tax minister keeps saying that it is a job deduction that is targeted at those with low wages. How the hell can the tax minister say that when we can see that the 10% that make the least will get 20 kroner. out of it and that the 10% that earns the most will get 440 kr. out of it? When we see how the proceeds are distributed, we can see that it costs 1.4 billion. kr. In the case of the United Kingdom, the amount of aid granted in the form of interest subsidies is limited to the minimum necessary to meet the requirements of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the conditions laid down in Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. kr. of the 1.4 billion kr. will go to those who earn less than $300,000 and the rest will go to those who earn over $300,000. This isn't targeted on the lowest incomes. If you would have done that, you should have set up a phasing-out scheme for those who earned more than DKK 300,000. So, for example, if you're gonna do something like this... Get up to earn, I don't know, $50,000. Or 500,000 kroner, you couldn't get this deduction anymore. But the government hasn't chosen to make that model. I just think it's a fake sales description.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214824	So, the new job deduction will, hopefully, in 2018, when it has been voted through, result in a tax relief of DKK 370. grows to DKK 640. in 2020 for people with an income above DKK 187,500, and that is for full-time employees. So there is a ceiling on what you can get, and therefore it has the relatively greatest importance for the low-paid. When the distribution is as it is, it is because fortunately we have relatively few low-paid, because most Danes earn more than the low-paid. But it is targeted them, and that is where it has the greatest effect relatively. If we were gonna do it, like mr. Rune Lund wants us to run into something else, and I doubt that Enhedslisten will at all contribute to tax relief to anyone. That's what I can take down after three years as tax minister. The Enhedslisten always finds a way to avoid a tax relief because you want to collect more in tax and want to have a larger public sector. That's fair enough. In case we do, sir. Rune Lund proposes, we run into the fact that there is a negative supply of labour, and our goal as politicians must be to make changes to the tax system that make Denmark richer, not poorer, and therefore something that has a positive job offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214935	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508214937	Then I think the tax minister should read our new 100-day plan, which we have just presented. In this way, the Minister of Taxation will see that we are actually proposing a number of tax reductions for those with the lowest incomes. We will then finance it through a tax restructuring so that those with some of the highest incomes pay for those with the lowest incomes to get a tax reduction. When you look at the answer to question 233 of 7 February 2018, you can see that both in kroner and ear, but also as a percentage of disposable income and as a percentage of gross income, this targeted job deduction is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215013-2	Sir. Rune Lund has asked a lot of questions, and that's Mr. Lund. Rune Lund welcomes you. I did so myself when I was in opposition, which is part of the parliamentary work. I cannot comment on that question, because I simply cannot remember it, but now I will go home and read it, and then I will have a good answer to Mr Beazley. Rune Lund for the second or third reading, and at the same time I can also read up on the Enhedslisten's 100-day plan. And I will look forward to reading the tax section, especially if there are tax cuts in prospect for anyone, and then I will also consider whether that is something the government can support. But I doubt it a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215047	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215109	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 May 2018. To justify the question, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the questions. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215123	Thank you. Why is it that we have a regime that will go very far to enable people with disabilities to be at work and that we do not do the same for the same people when they want to train themselves to enter the labour market at all? It is actually a wonder about this issue, which is the reason for today's question. We came to ask each other why and came to the conclusion quite quickly that there is no good answer. It was kind of like that: that's the way it is. If we look at the entire group of people with disabilities, a study from the National Research and Analysis Centre for Welfare shows that there are marked differences in the educational chances for people with and without disabilities. According to that study, there are barely 50 per cent. of people with major disabilities who do not have a qualification, as against one third adults without disabilities. Although one third is also too many, the difference is significant. We know that education is important for a stable link with the labour market and, at the same time, the link between education and stable links with the labour market is stronger for people with disabilities than for people without disabilities. This means that it is more important for people with disabilities to get an education in order to have good opportunities to contribute to the labour market. That is why we believe that today's debate is absolutely necessary. We note that there are a number of obstacles to young people with disabilities, and that is why we have found the reason for this question, which is: what can the government say about the possibility of people with disabilities taking vocational training, and what can the government say about the initiatives that the government intends to take to increase the possibility of people with disabilities taking vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215304	Thanks to the questioner. Then we go to the answer, first it is the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215322	Everyone, regardless of gender, skin color, religion, sexuality or disability, must have the opportunity to redeem their potential and create a good life. It is a very important part of a free and democratic society such as the Danish one. That is why I am also pleased that the questioners are focusing on a very important and very specific matter, namely that people with disabilities are guaranteed the opportunity to take up vocational training. Let me start by stating that people with disabilities already have good opportunities to enter and complete youth education, including vocational training. In the government, we are very attentive to ensuring and developing equality for people with disabilities it is an important agenda and we must never just sit back and think that everything is perfect. There's always something we can do better. But it is not a simple problem. The work of securing people with disabilities opportunities in life is complex because it often requires effort from many different ministerial areas. It takes specialised professional knowledge and insight to ensure that the actions and suggestions for improvements we are working with are the right ones. As I said, we are already well advanced on the rights and opportunities of disabled people in Denmark, fortunately. It is the case that young people with disabilities can be admitted on an equal footing with all other applicants; they simply have to comply with the applicable admission requirements. It is also possible to organise individual vocational training flexibly in the form of e.g.: Master's or production school-based vocational training. The quality of the training course must be the same for all. I do not think that anyone, and certainly not pupils with disabilities, wants any difference to be made in this area. Regardless of how you have been admitted, you have to meet the same high quality requirements that have been set for each education. This also means that all those who have completed vocational training meet the same professional requirements and are thus equally attractive in the labour market. Vocational training is defined as full-time training, as are other upper secondary education. The workload of the students is similar to that of a full-time worker in the labour market, both at school and internship. The status of full-time education is closely linked to that of the pupils. SU is only given to full-time education. If you don't study full time, you lose your right to SU. No human being is the same. In some cases, the type of disability may make it difficult to take certain courses, but no general barriers have been set for young people with disabilities to be able to complete vocational training. Students with special needs, including pupils with disabilities, can today receive special educational support for carrying out vocational training. Special educational support is also called SPS. SPS is an individual compensation; the purpose of it is to allow pupils with disabilities to participate and complete their education on equal terms with their classmates. The SPS consists, inter alia, of: of various aids, sign language interpretation, secretarial assistance and support hours. The various offers and forms of support are used, for example. in the case of ordinary teaching or excursions, examinations and examinations and internships. In 2016, more than 7,400 VET students received support from SPS. The vast majority, almost 5,500, received support in connection with reading and writing difficulties. Other examples of disabilities that have triggered SPS support are support for deaf and hearing impaired, blind and visually impaired, and various forms of movement disability. The number varies from year to year according to the specific needs of the individual pupils. Support for pupils with developmental disorders and pupils with mental impairments has increased greatly in recent years. This is a general trend in society, and it is a clear expression of the desire to give these pupils more opportunities, opportunities to take an education and to have a link with the labour market. I can promise that we will look into vocational training and consult the relevant organisations whether there are elements in vocational training which make it particularly difficult for people with disabilities. Together with my colleagues in the government, I will uncover the opportunities to ensure that pupils with disabilities in vocational training have the same framework as people with disabilities in other education and employment. In particular, we will uncover the possibility that pupils with disabilities will be able to have a reduced weekly working time during the internship period compensated financially. This will form the basis for a discussion with Parliament's parties in the autumn on concrete measures, including their financing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215809	Thank you to the Minister for Education. And then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508215819	Thank you for the opportunity to have this question debate, which we have in the Danish Parliament this evening, on one, I think, important theme. And the issue we are discussing here is how we can deal more with some of the people with disabilities and their opportunities to become part of the vocational training system. Young people with disabilities and, above all, their opportunities to take up vocational training are an important agenda. And why is that? Let me mention a few reasons. Firstly, things are actually going very well right now in the Danish labour market, both total employment and the spread of employment have never been higher. Since the government took office in the summer of 2015, 130,000 more private jobs have been created in the region. This also means that companies across the country urgently need skilled labour; all those who have the opportunity to contribute are needed. Secondly, unfortunately there are still too many young people in the cash aid system, and they certainly do not belong there. Young people need to start training so that they are equipped for the labour market, where higher demands are being made on competences. Of course, this applies to all young people, whether they have a disability or not. Thirdly, despite progress in the labour market, there are many people with disabilities who unfortunately are outside the labour market. In fact, only five out of ten are in employment, and this is also an area that the government has clearly stated that we must do something about. In particular, we must do something about this now that the economic situation is extremely favourable and we must make an extraordinary effort to ensure that some of those who are furthest away from the labour market and may find it hardest to become part of the labour market now have better opportunities to enter the labour market. People with a disability have valuable resources that deserve to be brought into play. The government is therefore also working on a disability policy initiative aimed at bringing more people with disabilities into the labour market. We have the clear objective that people with disabilities should also benefit from the good economic conditions and become part of the working community and benefit from everything that comes with a job • colleagues, community and, above all, lots of quality of life. As part of this work, we are now trying to get all the way around, because there is no doubt that there are more barriers and more challenges to be taken into account if we are to make a real difference. In this context, we are also looking at the possibility of carrying out vocational training if you have a disability. After all, the Minister of Education has just explained how people with disabilities are faced with vocational training and how the education system supports their ability to carry out vocational training. I think it is appropriate now to tell you a little about the role of the employment system. The employment system comes into the picture when young people with disabilities apply for educational or cash assistance, i.e. when the young person is not enrolled in an education or is not in work. If young people with disabilities come to education aid, the direction of action is very clear: the individual must be prepared to start and complete an education. The action may consist of various training support measures, e.g.: be reading, writing or math instruction, bridge building at an educational establishment or an internship. The effort must, of course, be organised so that the person's disability and the barriers and opportunities that come with it are addressed. There are, among other things: the possibility of making use of the disability compensation schemes as long as the young person receives an employment effort. It can, for example, be done. be a personal assistant or an aid. As a starting point, the employment effort stops when the young person starts training. The Job Centre may, however, grant mentor support in connection with start-up in an education or for a transitional period, but this means that the young person in training is no longer covered by an effort from the job centre. If the young person needs support during the training itself, there are various help to be found in the education system, as the Minister of Education has explained. After all, many people with disabilities have resources that we need to be better at putting into the labour market. Nor do I have a second doubt that with the right understanding, insight and support we can go further than we are today. And that is precisely why the government is happy to have the opportunity to take this debate, so that hopefully together we can take initiatives during 2018 that can help to support that more people with disabilities either come out directly and become part of the labour market or get better conditions for taking an education. It can easily be done to combine jobs and disabilities, especially if more people take advantage of the disability compensation schemes that the job centre can grant when young people have to enter the labour market after completing their training. And this is precisely one of the essential prerequisites that we must ensure, that is to say, that it will be easier to move from education to education and then to becoming part of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508220356	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Then we begin the negotiations, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508220408	Thank you for the answers from the ministers. At any rate, I hear a commitment to be constructive in what is forward-looking. I would like to use my speaking time here to dive a little into some of the problems that the ministers were also around. Because it is true, as the Minister of Education said, that in the current eud reform everyone has access to vocational training if they honour the required access requirements for basic and main courses. This means, of course, that students with one or more disabilities have access to vocational training on an equal footing with other trainees. And that is quite excellent, because of course that is the case. We could not imagine writing in the legislation that people with disabilities did not have access to vocational training. So you can get in. But then what appears is some hidden leg buckles, and the leg buckles that I mention in the following are all also mentioned in notes we have from the Ministry of Education, so they are not unknown leg buckles at all. I also know that several of them have been mentioned in the ministers' speeches just now. There is a basic course 1. There is the duration laid down in the law, which means that it cannot be changed when disabled pupils need anything else. The students or the pupils, if we are to call them that, have the opportunity today to have reduced working hours, so that the training time is extended if it is an agreement between the employer and the relevant professional committee. That also sounds very good, but then there is the addition, as it is today, that wages are reduced accordingly. I can therefore welcome the fact that we heard the Minister of Education say just now that this will also be taken in and that we will ensure that there is compensation for it. Because as it is today, you have to go home to Mom and Dad and see if you can get support to get that education. The students on basic courses have access to SU if they meet the general conditions. Under the current rules on SU, students do not have access to disability allowances. If pupils in vocational training are to have access to disability allowances, it will require a change of law so that pupils in vocational training will have access to it. About a year ago, the Danish People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution that students should have access to disability allowances. The Education and Research Committee issued a report in June a year ago calling for students with disabilities to be treated, as appropriate, as students with disabilities in higher education. The Committee also called for the conditions for disabled students to be included in the project on SU, which at that time had been announced by the government. In the context of that debate, the Minister of Education indicated that the issue of disability allowances would be addressed in the forthcoming SU negotiations in spring 2018. I thought then, probably a little naive, that by this time we would have been looking at it. I do not see how we are going to have the basic SU negotiations like this right now, so I have the expectation that, in the course of the follow-up to this debate, we will ensure that that part of the SU rules is included and that work is being done on it. Then I know that we need an extra minister, but I am sure that the two ministers present will be able to coordinate with the third minister so that we can also get it into the work. I shall conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that people with disabilities must be guaranteed the same opportunities to enter and complete vocational training as other citizens and that persons with disabilities are guaranteed the same access to vocational training as other applicants if they meet the applicable entry requirements. The Danish Parliament is concerned that people with disabilities are not prevented from taking vocational training because of economic or physical constraints. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government to identify the possibilities for ensuring that pupils with disabilities in vocational training have the same framework as those with disabilities in education and employment. This applies in particular to the possibility of having a reduced weekly working time during the internship period compensated financially. The cover shall form the basis for a discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties in the autumn of 2018 on concrete actions, including the financing of these actions. V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20180508220840	Thank you. This is then part of the further debate. We will continue with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508220858	We in the Social Democratic Party have long wanted to discuss the possibility of doing some kind of flex-job training. We have among other things. let us be inspired by Danske Handicaporganisationer og Værvskolerens ElevOrganisation, just as we have discussed the matter with the youth department of the Spasticerforeningen. Your chairman, Cecilie Nisbeth, has himself been trained as an office assistant. Today she is on reduced time through the flex job scheme. She earns the money herself for the first 16 hours a week, and then supplements the government with a benefit up to 37 hours. About a year ago, the chairman of the Spastic Association told me that they were discussing why their members did not have the opportunity to take the internship on a vocational training in the same way. Such are the rules already for educators when they are going to internship, and I have to admit that that was a good question. Why can disabled people only get flex jobs when they are trained but not while they are students? It is already possible for disabled people to have a reduction in the working week during the internship period and thus to have an extension of the internship period, but they are not compensated for this reduction in working time. Of course, the employer does not have to pay for 37 hours if the pupil is only present for 16 hours. This will make it completely impossible for disabled people to find an internship. So this is where the public sector must act in the natural continuation of the compensatory disability policy agreed by the Folketing for decades. Since March 2017, we have wanted political discussions on this, but we have not really moved on. We do not really think the government has been as active and committed as we would like. On the contrary, we have just received a number of documents outlining the current rules. It is, of course, better than nothing, but there are not really any concrete proposals that will enable us to move forward, and that is why we have been involved in this debate. The Social Democrats want us to discuss, first and foremost, a possible amendment to Chapter 13 of the Act on Active Employment so that it will be possible for students in vocational training to have a flexible job on the main course. In those words, I hope for a good debate and support for the proposed adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221119	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221128	Thank you, President. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party for raising this debate here on a late Tuesday evening. In the Left, we are very concerned about the two agendas which I can see, as I can see, that this question raises. First of all, it can be said that the rights and opportunities of disabled people in society are at stake. We believe it is important that every person, with a disability, should be helped to the best possible extent. In fact, recently, we first dealt with a legislative proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly to ban discrimination against people with disabilities, both direct and indirect discrimination. But I am also sure that even more can be done. People with disabilities need not only to protect them from discrimination. They may also need us to give them additional support in specific contexts. One of the links, as we are also discussing here this evening, is with the implementation of vocational training. The second agenda on which the Left is also very concerned, and which this debate also points to, is how we obtain sufficient skilled labour. One of the things that the Minister for Employment mentioned in his speech is that we have a situation right now in which we have a boom and where we know that there will be an even extra need for skilled workers. After all, it is also obvious in a boom to get these things under control, so that we also ensure that young people with disabilities will, of course, have an opportunity to get an education and, above all, vocational training, because these are also the ones we urgently need. So, of course, we must do everything we can to get more young people to take up vocational training. We must reach out to our young people so that they also have the support they need to be able to become part of the working community. There are already a number of good schemes which help people with different types of disability on the way, which is the case among other things. in the education system, but also in our employment system. However, our government, and hence also the Left, is ready to raise its ambitions, and that is why our government also intends to present a disability policy initiative, such as that of the United States. to help increase employment for people with disabilities. With those words, I can say that we in the Left support the text of adoption which the rapporteur of the DF read out a moment ago, and I have promised to send a message from the Conservatives and to say that they also agree with the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221431	Thank you. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221438	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party for raising the debate on people with disabilities' opportunity to take up vocational training. There are today too many people with disabilities who do not have a qualification or are doing one. I believe that reference has already been made to the major SFI study published last year, from which we know that adults with disabilities generally have less education than citizens without disabilities, and in the case of people with far-reaching disabilities, there are relatively many who do not have an education. It looks particularly glaring when we look at the figures for • wonder what you call it • the younger adults. Here we can see that in the 20-35 age group it is as much as 60% who have either not completed or are in the course of an education. This means that for that year we have a number in the order of two or three times more who do not have training than people in the same age group without a disability. It is a gigantic social problem and a gigantic problem for a great many. We know that lack of training has a major impact on employment opportunities for people with disabilities. This means, of course, that it is important for the individual's ability to have a good and meaningful working life, but I also think it is worth mentioning here that not so many people have mentioned the fact that it is also a question of giving people with disabilities a much wider perspective on their social life, participation in our democracy and in society at all, where we know that the opportunity to act in society becomes much stronger when you have an education in baggage. As a society, therefore, we have an important obligation to ensure that people with disabilities can train on an equal footing with others. In fact, it is also an obligation arising from our accession to the UN Convention on Disability. In practical terms, when it comes to the possibility of taking vocational training, I think it is worth mentioning here that it is of great importance that children and young people with disabilities receive the necessary support in our primary school so that they have the skills they need in order to be able to continue their education. We know here that unfortunately there are a great many problems. Not least after we received the Inclusion Act in 2012, many children's opportunities for special education have been cut. Not least, to give just one example, it goes through for students with autism spectrum disorders who go into ordinary classes. There we know from up to several studies made by the National Association of Autism that there are frequent long-term absences for the group of students. That is why I think it is very important that, in the debate on the possibility of taking vocational training, we also focus on primary education. Then, of course, we should not least focus on the particular focus we have this evening to ensure better conditions for young people who are embarking on vocational training. It is very important that there is good special educational support. It is important that the necessary tools are made available. We in the Enhedslist warmly support the proposal that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl referred to the problem of disability allowances for pupils undergoing vocational training, and we also fully agree that it should be pointed out that when you are on reduced time in your internship, there must be an opportunity or a right to be compensated financially. All in all, I think it is encouraging that all parties here in Things agree that we should strengthen pupils with disabilities' opportunities to carry out vocational training and we look forward in the Enhedslisten to a more detailed discussion of how we are actually doing it when we have got the coverage of the area that we agree to ask the Minister for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221906	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508221919	Thank you. It is absolutely essential that you can become part of the labour market, even when you have disabilities. In my view, the task of the welfare society, the task of the public sector in helping, is of course to help those who need help. It has been decided if you have some kind of disability. We think that, in general, too many people who do not need help are being helped. But the people we need to help are some of the ones we're talking about here. And that is why it is good that this debate has been initiated. I welcome the fact that the government is on the way with an initiative in this area and, of course, we can also support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222014	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222025	Thank you, President. For many years I have had the pleasure of working with many learning organisations for people with special needs through my company, where I validate informal learning. I think we are working with 80 organisations where people with special needs are trying in every way to acquire learning. It can be workshops, it can be more academic things, it is all sorts of learning organisations where people with special needs of course work hard to learn all they can. In other words, I have really had a lot of dialogue about learning with people with special needs. And there are some things they say that I remember so clearly because it has made so much impression on me. There were, for example, Someone who said, "Try to hear, Torsten, even if I have special needs, you can look at me, but I still have a life to live. And that impressed me. And a boy said to me at one point: Try to hear, Torsten, I don't want to be with other disabled people, I just want to be with someone who has the same interests as me. In relation to the statements and other statements and the dialogue that I have had with many people with special needs, each time I experience that people with special needs are exactly like me. They have just as much appetite for life and are just as keen to find happiness and just as keen to work hard to succeed. And so, of course, people with special needs must also have the same opportunities to live a normal life as all of us. And here it is actually necessary to treat people with special needs differently from the rest of us in order to give them the same opportunities as the rest of us. And that is precisely where our proposal for adoption, which we naturally support, becomes concrete, in other words, that people with special needs can have a reduction in weekly working time in practice compensated financially. That is exactly where we give some people a slightly different hand in order to be able to have the same opportunities as us. So, on the one hand, the proposal for adoption, on the other hand, the opinions and other opinions that have come from both ministers and the desire to look at this and develop these opportunities for these people with special needs, I think that is extremely positive. So I hardly know what to say. I think it's completely right-legged. The alternative, of course, supports the possibility for people with special needs to be admitted to and to undertake vocational training, and we will go a long way to ensure that people with special needs feel at home in society in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222339	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why I am looking at the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222357	I would like to thank you for the debate and once again acknowledge that we were given the opportunity to debate this issue. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl to focus on a very important issue that we all have an interest in finding a good, worthy and sustainable solution to. We must ensure that all people and also people with disabilities are given the opportunity to use their potential and to create the best opportunities for a good life. More and more young people are choosing vocational training. There are good employment opportunities, there is access to good and exciting young people's lives, and young people with disabilities must also have the opportunity to be part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222449	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222455	I should also like to thank those who are behind this debate today. First of all, we owe it to us to make an extraordinary effort towards some of those who have the greatest difficulty in our society. Not least, they are people with disabilities. That's what it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen said, which I fully agree with, that we can do more there. One of the reasons why we have a welfare society is precisely to ensure that we take care of those who are having difficulty. I have also announced before that the government will come up with a disability policy initiative. It is, in fact, just an outstretched hand for, among other things. The Danish People's Party has called for it. In the past, the government has had to discuss this during the SU negotiations. The SU negotiations will probably not take place today or tomorrow. That is why I would also like to mention that it makes sense for the government to reflect on this discussion in this proposal for a new disability policy paper which I expect to present before the summer recess. This will then form the basis for a political debate after the summer recess. That is why I think it is obvious that this element should also be discussed politically. The proposal for adoption that has been put forward is quite excellent and, in fact, it falls well into the political process that we are now going to have with the parties of the Folketing. And in this area, I think, we all agree that there we can make an extraordinary difference in terms of what the conditions are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222626	Thank you, Minister. Then it is to the end of the debate one of the rapporteurs for the questioners, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222638	On behalf of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is a very good idea that the whole parliament can gather together on the same proposal for adoption and that we can now hear from the government that the government's disability policy is coming before the summer holiday and that therefore there is plenty of time to reach agreement in the autumn on what is in this proposal for adoption. So thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222702	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 5 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180508222728	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 9 May, at 9 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
