ParlaMint-DK_20181101100031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on taxation of electricity and the Law on tax-free compensation for increased energy and environmental taxes). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of secondary school districts). Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 24 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of entrepreneurship companies). Bent Bøgsted (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 25 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to tighten the admission criteria in the Business Administration's RUT register). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 15 (What can the Minister say about the consequences for the Danish labour market model, including connection to the unemployment benefit system, professional organisation and wage development, when many people are made poor because they lose benefit rights or are prevented from obtaining them because of the introduction of a residence allowance requirement as proposed by the government?). Christian Juhl (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Request no. F 16 (What can the Minister say about his position on the Committee of Experts on the review of the recommendations of the Working Environment Action in the report •A new and improved working environment • Considerations and recommendations • published on 27 September 2018 and what will the Minister do specifically to strengthen preventive work and reduce the number of people working under stressful working conditions?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100132	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100155	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100211	The purpose of the bill here is to create the legal basis for the transfer of persons convicted under the Greenland Criminal Code who have been transferred to custody in Denmark to the new hospital in Nuuk, which will be completed in the spring of 2019 and which, moreover, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs had the pleasure and the honour of visiting a few years ago. The new institution will have to include, among other things: contain a closed ward that can accommodate the prisoners. And so far it has been the case that Greenlandic people sentenced to detention have been placed in Herstedvester Prison here in Denmark because they have not had the right security measures in Greenland. As it is now changed, it is natural that the Greenlandic people who have been sentenced to detention and who are serving in Denmark will have the opportunity to serve in Greenland in the future if they consent to it. The consent can be undone for up to 6 months after the transfer to Greenland and will, by regret, mean that the person can then be moved back to Herstedvester Prison in Denmark. This means that the prisoner can choose to transfer to Greenland and has 1⁄2 years after it to regret his transfer and return to Herstedvester Prison. Then he can choose to come to Greenland once again, but then the right of withdrawal ends. If the serving person chooses not to be transferred to the new hospital in Greenland, he loses the right to Greenlandic food and services. We in the Social Democratic Party believe this to be acceptable and quite reasonable in that it also actively elects Denmark over Greenland. The Social Democratic Party welcomes the fact that people sentenced to detention are given the opportunity to serve in Greenland if they so wish. It is clear from the consultation answers to the bill that about half of the people to whom the bill is addressed have indicated that they want to be transferred to the new institution in Greenland. We also find it positive that you have a chance to regret if it turns out not to be what you thought it was. That is why the Social Democrats support the proposal and I should like to welcome our friends in the Radical Left and the SF and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100445	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100457	Thank you. This Amendment Bill sees Dansk Folkeparti as a result of this new institution opening in Nuuk in 2019, partly with an open department and partly with a detention department. As a result, it allows Greenlanders who are currently in custody in Denmark to return to Greenland if they wish to do so and receive their treatment there. It will be so that in future judgments are based on the fact that they are also in the Greenlandic institution. We can only welcome that. We note that there is a small cat hatch in relation to whose special medical considerations cause a person to need to come to Denmark. That is also open to us. Of course, we support that too. Finally, there's this authority to allow the court to transfer prisoners between the open department and the detention department, which we also think makes a great deal of sense. So I will not stick it much more than to say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. And I should like to welcome my colleagues in the Danish People's Party and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100628	I got a little nervous, I must say. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100639	Thank you, President. This bill is about strengthening Greenland's justice system and ensuring better conditions for the Greenlanders in custody. Unfortunately, since the 1950s it has not been possible for Greenland itself to house prisoners. This has resulted in sending them to Denmark, far from family, friends and networks. As the Left's Greenland rapporteur, I am therefore pleased that we can now meet Greenland's request for a new and improved facility in Nuuk, which I myself have also almost visited, we could not get in completely because it was not quite finished. It is intended to ensure that Greenland can accommodate in future those in custody the Greenlanders who would otherwise be sent to Denmark. With the bill, we are not only ensuring that any future detention-judged Greenlanders can remain in their domestic area. We welcome the fact that, at the same time, the bill offers the Greenlanders who are already serving in Denmark to be transferred to the Greenlandic detention centre. This leads to a better restoration process in Greenlandic society. But, of course, we should not force already imprisoned Greenlanders who are in Denmark to move back to Greenland against their will. Wardens who, after many years in Denmark or less time in Denmark, have gained a possible greater connection with Denmark, must of course have the opportunity to stay in Denmark. Thus, it should be up to the conservational Greenlanders themselves to decide whether or not to transfer them back to Greenland. And that, of course, is also the purpose of this proposal. The draft law is thus further proof that we in the Left prioritise Denmark and Greenland's close cooperation when we together with Greenland ensure better conditions for the Greenlanders in custody. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100826	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl is not present? No. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101100842	Thank you. The fact that Greenlanders who have been imprisoned for the last 60 years have actually had to serve in Denmark is simply due to the fact that there have not been facilities for it in Greenland, so when next year we have a nice new institution finished in Nuuk, it is difficult to see why it should continue to be that way. We could then decide that all the Greenlanders who are currently serving mainly in Herstedvester are going to Greenland, but there are of course other considerations to take in this connection, because when you have spent the past many years in a prison such as this one. In Herstedvester and in Denmark, you might rather stay where you are already. It may be because you have your routines, you know the staff, and you know other inmates too. Therefore, I think it is a very good solution to do so voluntarily, whether you actually want to be transferred to Greenland. Then I understand that there has been criticism that the prisoners who chose to be transferred to Greenland did not have the opportunity to regret their decision, and the Minister of Justice has then chosen to listen to that criticism, and the Liberal Alliance is quite happy with that. All in all, therefore, it is a good proposal that the Liberal Alliance supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101011	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101022	Thank you. We have L 19, and the draft law has been examined very well by the previous rapporteurs. It's nice to have a new asylum in Nuuk. This is good for legal certainty for the citizens of Greenland, and it is good for the equal cooperation that we are working to extend in our Parliament. The Council of Lawyers, the Institute of Human Rights, the Greenland Council for Human Rights and the Prison Association welcomes the fact that transfer from Herstedvester Prison to the new asylum in Nuuk can only take place with the consent of the prison judge. To this I must say that the Lawyers' Council, the Department of Human Rights and Greenland's Lawyers and the National Association SIND also recommend that there should be a requirement for consent in cases where there is a transfer of detention sentences from Herstedvester Prison to an open department in Greenland. I do not know whether it is something that has been addressed or addressed by the Minister for Justice, but otherwise it might be interesting to hear that reflection too. In short words, of course, we can support the opening up of the new institution and that we now have the opportunity for those sentenced to detention in the Kingdom community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101137	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101146	Thank you for that, President. It has long been a great wish from Greenland that the Greenlandic prisoners can serve their sentence in Greenland. The desire to stop placing prisoners in Denmark is based on the concern of the sentenced person, of course, and not least the family of the convicted person. It has really major consequences for children in Greenland if their parents are doomed to be placed in Herstedvester in Denmark. The children's speaker in Greenland therefore also stresses in his hearing answer to the bill that it will be of real importance to the children if their parents can have the opportunity to serve in Greenland. With this proposal, we are now creating the legal basis for them to do so. There's a new facility under construction in Nuuk right now. The installment is expected to be operational in 2019 and will be available among other things. to contain a closed ward that can accommodate the prisoners. It will therefore also be practically possible to live up to the intention of the bill in the near future, which is why the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101256	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101305	With this bill, the positive thing is that there will now be an opportunity for a group of prisoners to serve in Greenland in the future. It has been a political wish in Greenland for many years, including inuit Ataqatigiits, and it is very positive that it can now be realized with the new institution that opens in Nuuk in the new year. The bill mainly contains positive measures that Inuit Ataqatigiit can support. However, we have a number of comments which we also consider to be extremely relevant in this context. We have noted in particular that a unanimous legislative committee in Inatsisartut has approved the bill submitted by the Ministry of Justice, but it has done so with two comments which I think we need to be aware of when we deal with this bill. The first point I would like to mention is that there has been a broad political desire in Greenland that the inmates who are moved to the new asylum in Nuuk should also be able to reverse their decision. That wish has been met in this bill, and in Inuit Ataqatigiit we support the possibility for this bill to reverse its decision to serve in Greenland so that the inmates in the new institution can return to Herstedvester in the future, if that is what they want. This has also been expressed in the past by Inuit Ataqatigiits, just as the Greenland Self-Government Institute for Human Rights and the Greenland Human Rights Council also notes it in their hearing response. And it is important to note, because it is an important element of the bill itself, that the inmates are given the opportunity to consent when there is a change in where they are to serve. Another point to which we also think it important to draw attention is that a unanimous legislative committee in Inatsisartut has noted that inmates who choose to stay in Herstedvest should retain the special offers of Greenlandic education, Greenlandic diet and the opportunity to see their relatives. And this bill provides for this right to lapse when the new institution in Nuuk opens. Therefore, it is important for us here in the Folketing to be aware that this bill means real deterioration for the Greenlandic inmates in Herstedvester, who may choose to serve their sentence there. Greenland's Self-Government Institute for Human Rights and the Council of Lawyers, together with a broad political majority in Inatsisartut, recommends that those sentenced to detention, who choose to stay in Herstedvester, also retain the previously mentioned offers as Greenlandic inmates. Just because you choose to continue serving in Herstedvester doesn't make you less Greenlander. That is an important point on our part, and we therefore also believe that the right to continue to exercise our culture is a right which we should not remove by means of this legislative proposal. Typically, we hear that the government refers to government being negotiated. That is to say, it is the government that is negotiating with Naala Suisut, which is why I also think it is important to stress that it is indeed a special sight when we see here that the desire that is both from the Naala Suisut, but also from a broad majority in Inatsisartut, that the Greenlandic inmates in Herstedvest, who also choose to stay there, can preserve and guarantee the right to exercise their culture, as is possible today. We believe that depriving them of these rights is, in fact, contrary to, among others. ILO Convention No. 169 and that is why we in Inuit Ataqatigiits strongly urge the government to reconsider this part of the bill and thus ensure that the current rights are preserved for the Greenlandic inmates who continue to serve in Herstedvester. Another important element of this bill is the provision of health and employment services with the establishment of the new institution in Nuuk. Inuit Ataqatigiit considers it most welcome that the establishment of the new institution allows psychiatric, psychological and health services, at least to a lesser extent, in the institution itself. It is important to bear in mind that there has never been such an increase in institutions in Greenland before, and that is why it is also an important increase in the Ministry of Justice for the inmates of the criminal services in Greenland. However, we have also indicated in the past that there is still a lack of responsibility between Greenland and Denmark when it comes to health care in the general Greenlandic health care system. Similarly, it is also unclear which general services in the Greenlandic community the inmates will also have access to. Finally, I would like to say that with this bill we have a natural focus on the offenders and the criminals, but we would really like to see Inuit Ataqatigiits, that there was also an even greater focus on the victims. We have 34 times as great a person-dangerous crime in Greenland as in Denmark, and it is a huge responsibility that we have here in the Folketing and which I think we need to do something more out of. But I see time's up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101840	Thank you. There's a question. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101844	Thank you, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, in which the rapporteur also referred to the fact that I mentioned myself, namely that the Minister for Justice has actually responded to this with one, we should call it a right of withdrawal for Greenlandic prisoners who choose to be transferred to Nuuk. As I also said in my own speech, it is very good that the Minister for Justice chooses to accommodate it. A tiny detail, which I perhaps did not hear the rapporteur mention in this connection, is the length of the right of withdrawal. I can see that Mrs Aleqa Hammond has, after all, come up with some ideas that the period for the right of withdrawal should actually be longer than that which the Minister of Justice has then accepted and proposed. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101101938	Thank you very much for the question. I think it is a pity that my Greenlandic colleague, Mrs Aleqa Hammond, is not in the negotiations here today, because of course we have important negotiations on behalf of Greenland. I think that is important to say first of all. What Mrs Aleqa Hammond has proposed is one year's right of withdrawal, and I think that this proposal before us is a very sensible one, and I do not necessarily think that this is where we need a lot of strength. On the contrary, I think we should devote some effort to those who choose to continue serving on Herstedvester, and then have a greater focus on the victims. It is so that when I was a child, I was at one time in Narsaq for New Year's Eve, where there was a mass murder in town. These are some of the ideas that came out a little when I was sitting with this bill because I think that we care a lot about the offenders, but we forget that there are some violent, traumatic incidents that are taking place in an entire society, but also in families of relatives of the victims, but also, of course, of the victims, which we do not talk about very much about. I think we need to focus more on that here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102049	Thank you. There are no more questions. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond isn't here, and it's gonna have to be the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102104	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the very positive contributions we have heard today. There seems to be full support for the proposal here to amend the Greenlandic Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm really, really happy about that. I also believe that today is a milestone in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. Today we have the opportunity to make up for a more than 60-year practice of sending Greenlandic prisoners from Greenland to Denmark, far away from their families and networks. It has long been a great wish from Greenland for the Greenlandic prisoners to serve in Greenland for a long time. That is a wish which we have listened to and which we share. The bill is a visible proof that we are serious when we say in the government base that we want the Kingdom Community. We are serious when we say that we will continually give priority to updating the legislation for Greenland in areas for which Denmark is responsible. We are serious when we say that the standard in Greenland must correspond to the standard in Denmark, with the special derogations which Greenland's conditions now require. When I was in Greenland in late summer 2017, the new hospital in Nuuk was a construction site. The building is now taking shape, and I look forward as Minister of Justice to a state-of-the-art facility in Nuuk that is ready to house the Greenlandic prisoners in the spring of 2019. With the bill, we are creating the legislative framework for anyone sentenced to detention under the criminal code to serve in Greenland. In parallel with the legislative work, the Department of Justice is working at high pressure to ensure that the building and content framework are also put in place and that staff are recruited to the institution. The draft law contains several elements, and I would just like to mention two of them here today. Firstly, the bill will ensure that persons who are in custody under the criminal code can be placed in the new asylum in Nuuk in the future. Secondly, the draft law will provide a standing offer to people who have already been given custody under the criminal code and who have been placed in Denmark to be transferred to the new institution in Nuuk. When we propose in the bill that a detention sentenced person alone can be transferred from Denmark to Greenland, if the prison sentenced consents, it is because some of the detention sentenced persons have now served in Denmark for many years and have therefore been associated with Denmark. Therefore, it should be up to the prisoners themselves whether they want to be transferred from Denmark to Greenland. This is a major decision for the convict and I believe that we should support those sentenced to detention in the best way possible in that resolution. We do this by allowing consent to be withdrawn for up to 6 months after the transfer, so we also respond to an explicit request from Greenland's Landsting. In addition, the Department of Justice will thoroughly inform those sentenced to detention of the content of the service in the new institution. The information campaign will, of course, be supplemented by an individual guide to each prison sentence. With these comments, I would once again like to thank you for your positive reception and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102416	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102419	Thank you very much for the comments of the Minister of Justice. As you know, sexual abuse of children in Greenland is a really big problem, and when I talk about personal crime, sexual abuse is also part of that area. This is an area which unfortunately seems to be increasing in Greenland, at least in 2017 there were a lot of reviews. It may be an indication that we are paying more attention to it. Naalakkersuisut has made a strategy called Killiliisa, which is about combating sexual abuse of children in Greenland, and there have been 10 recommendations in relation to justice, where one of the recommendations is to ensure that convicted offenders also receive treatment when they are in the asylum. Is this something the Minister of Justice is aware of, and is it something that the government is working on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102517	Thank you. After all, there is a proper dialogue on this. As far as health care is concerned, two posts have been opened: a post as a psychologist and a post as a psychiatrist for those sentenced to detention in the future institution, and they must be in charge of the talks, and if there is a need for treatment that goes beyond what the institution can offer, the inmate will be referred to the Greenlandic health service, where you will have the same requirement for offers as everyone else in Greenland. There are some requests from Greenland, and money is put off on the Finance Act, and then we have a dialogue on how we can jointly prioritise these things. That's how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102604	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102607	Thank you very much. One of the things we have discussed here in the Folketing in the past is gender-retardant medicine for the offenders, and I think that medical supervision is extremely important. We know that there are a number of challenges, both in relation to psychiatry, in relation to psychotherapy in Greenland, and that is why it is very positive that there are these new initiatives in the institution, but I can be concerned that we will also ensure that we provide adequate treatment, especially anti-sex drugs, to former invaders. Is this something that the Ministry of Justice is aware of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102649	Now, of course, the discussion today is quite specific about the new institutions and the law there, but it is important to take action on treatment and to try to help those sentenced to detention out of their crime, and it can of course be used by some people who have been sentenced to imprisonment. There is, of course, the question of financial responsibility for dealing with the prisoners, and the questioner knows as well as I do that there is an intense discussion about this with Naalaksuisut, and work is being done to find a solution, and the Department of Police will also be thoroughly informing those sentenced to detention who are serving in Herstedvester about this. I fully understand that this is a very, very relevant part of dealing with the prisoners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102743	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102756	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101102811	In Denmark we have freedom of association, and that means that as citizens we have the right to form associations for any purpose. It is a cornerstone of our democracy, but freedom of association also has boundaries. We cannot have associations that act by violence or instigate violence, and that is why, as a society, we have the opportunity to dissolve such associations by judgment. The upcoming trial for the dissolution of the violent and criminal gang Loyal to Familia, which has several times shot in the streets, has made the need to look at the framework for the dissolution of associations particularly topical. Associations that create insecurity and put the lives of ordinary peaceful Danes at risk, we must look at very seriously. The draft law we are discussing here today must help to ensure that the police and the prosecution have the necessary framework when the court has to decide on the dissolution of an association, and that is why we are creating with the bill an opportunity for chance finds to be used as evidence in court during such a trial. This means, of course, that evidence which the police have legally collected during an investigation of a criminal offence by, for example, a search or a wiretap can be used as evidence in cases of dissolution of an association. Associations like Loyal to Familia have no other purpose than to commit crime and create insecurity, and we will not tolerate this in Danish society seen with social democratic spectacles. This also means that we want to provide the police with the best possible framework in terms of providing evidence in legal proceedings for the dissolution of such criminal groups, and that is why we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103002	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103012	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here is basically about what framework we should give our police and our authorities when it comes to bringing gangs to account, gangs that we do not want to have in our society, organisations that are banned, and that is what this proposal is an expression of. I mean, the police have to have the opportunity to use these coincidences in the case of gangs. The Socialist rapporteur specifically referred to the case currently under way, namely the case of Loyal to Familia, which, for us, is the first step on a long road on which we are heading, in order to make Danish society more secure. I would like to stress, as rapporteur for the party which was initially involved in the ban on gangs, that we regard this case as the first case out of many cases. After all, we are not going to solve the problems in the gang sector with a single ban on a single gang. We would like to see this rolled out and turned into a tool that could be used far more against these criminal organizations. These are not associations which, as such, fulfil what we understand in the Constitution as associations. These are criminal syndicates, which must be combated with all the means at our disposal in our society, within the framework provided for by the Constitution. There I just want to make it clear to the Minister for Justice and to the parties of the Danish Parliament that when it comes to going further along this path, we in the Danish People's Party are fully ready to follow suit to ensure that we can hit these organisations hard. But we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103146	Thank you. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103155	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is about coincidence, and perhaps we should start by sketching out what a coincidence is really about. Yes, it can happen in the context of the situation in which, for example, the police. has received a wiretap warrant, that is, a warrant to be able to listen to a phone call because you may suspect that there is real, really serious drug crime. During the telephone conversation, the police can then be aware that there has also been a small shoplifting, which does not give much punishment. This could not in itself have been given a wiretap order to go in and investigate, because it is not punished enough, if I may say so. And what could then happen in this situation was that the police could also use the wiretap to solve the small case and prove it in court by detour, that is to say through the big case. That's why the rules are so designed that you can't. Of course, you can get wiretap orders about what meets the conditions, i.e. typically a six-year prison sentence, but not for smaller things. The specific proposal concerns the fact that we have to deal with a ban on LTF, Loyal to Familia. It must be dealt with in the city court, and the question is whether the police should be prevented from presenting evidence that has come up as side evidence, if I may say so, during, for example, a telephone intercept. They would probably be cut off because there is no six-year prison sentence attached to Loyal to Familias's existence. But fortunately, the government is very keen to have this thing banned, this criminal syndicate, and so the police must of course be able to present all the evidence that the police have, no matter how they are provided, from the investigation of previous cases. This also means that the police must be given the opportunity to present these coincidences, and it will often be small things from old cases, which can now be proof in the LTF case. It may be that the police have bugged a telephone conversation which can prove in some way that the association works and that it works by violence and as a concerted practice; it was not in itself the basis for doing anything when the wiretap took place, but it is very much a good proof. The wiretap, the conversation, is a good proof during the LTF case. That evidence could not be presented in court before, and so it can now, if the Danish Parliament adopts this bill. I hope so, because it certainly has the warmest support of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103449	Thank you. There's no one from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103505	I am a substitute for Mrs Christina Egelund, who unfortunately could not be here today. The draft law here removes the current doubts about the interpretation of the provisions of the Code of Procedure relating to the use of so-called random finds in cases of dissolution of an association. It makes good sense for us here to propose that coincidences which the police have acquired in connection with, for example, a search where the discovery of the evidence is random in relation to the offence which justified the search can be used as evidence in court. Of course, the prosecution should not be cut off from being able to provide relevant evidence which the police have in their possession. We must ensure that all relevant findings legally held by the police can be used as evidence in cases of the dissolution of, for example, criminal gangs. That is why the proposal here is meaningful. In the end, of course, it will be up to the courts to assess whether the finding can be used as a relevant evidence. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103624	It is my first day as the legal rapporteur for the alternative, and I am very pleased about that in itself. It could have been nice to be able to vote green for the first thing you had to talk about. I can see that the total opposition in relation to a completely different bill now supports consent in rape cases as the burden of proof rather than violence, and I would be happy to do so instead. It will be my green yes from here today, that is to say there is a consensus on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103655	We shall deal with the proposal under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103656	I'm gonna do that, too. As far as this draft law is concerned, I would like to say that, as a new legal rapporteur, I will listen even more than I do in those areas where I have been a little longer in the yard, to the good arguments that are in favour, because I think there are, in fact, a great many good arguments for voting in favour of this. However, as a starting point, we read the draft law in such a way that what you really want to achieve can be achieved in relation to existing legislation. This is just going to be more smooth, and it seems to be a little less bureaucratic for the investigation if you get the opportunity not to have to seek concrete acceptance every time you have to go in and exploit such a coincidence. If it is correctly understood that it can be done, we maintain that we are opposed to the proposal. But I am going to look into it further, and so far I have put emphasis on Amnesty International and the Institute for Human Rights's hearing answer, in which it is actually said that what you are looking for can actually be achieved today, but with this extra specific question as to whether you can use the chance found in this particular case. In fact, we think that is a sensible case law. It may be that I am getting smarter during the debate. I apologise to the President for taking an errand in the first place. I took the liberty of doing so because it was my first time as a legal rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103810	Thank you. There are no brief comments on this. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101103817	Thank you for that, President. In the Radical Left, we share the Government's desire to put an end to Loyal to Familia. It is awful how it has been able to intimidate ordinary people, schoolchildren and their parents, and therefore it is important to do something about it, and therefore we would also like to look at this proposal with open eyes, even though it raises some very fundamental, legitimate issues for me as a radical one. When it is the case today that we do not just use coincidence finds, it is, of course, to protect people's privacy, so that we do not have a situation where we run the risk of being snatched suddenly in all sorts of cases, and that is the protection that is so important in principle. That is why one of the things we will also be interested in in committee is the legal problems that have been raised, among other things. It is important for me, as a radical, that this should not become a slippery path and that we should not be able to open up the possibility, for example. have access to intercepts in situations where it would otherwise not be possible to access them. So there are some things here that we would like to drill a little bit into to make sure that we have legal certainty if the Radical Left is to be able to see itself as part of this bill. I promised to say hello to some red friends. First, it is from the SF, which stands very much in the same place as us and is waiting for positive. And I would also like to welcome from the Enhedslisten, which is against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104010	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is Mr. Is Khade not present? Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104022	Thank you. The second round is due solely to an oversight during the first round. Sir. Nas Khader asked me to say that he could endorse the remarks of the Left. It is therefore the case that for small parties with few members of parliament, who must be in many places at Christiansborg at the same time, it is not always possible to achieve everything. That is the case today, but Mr. Nas Khader agreed with the remarks made by the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104041	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104049	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the most positive speeches we have heard today. After all, the purpose of the draft law is to establish that so-called chance finds can be used as evidence in court during a case for the dissolution of an association pursuant to Article 78 of the Constitution. Random finds are evidence that the police have come in possession of in connection with, for example, a search, but the discovery of the evidence is random in relation to the offence which justified the search. It is therefore a question of the police legally having been found. It can, for example, be done. the police carry out a search on the basis of suspected possession of firearms and that the police find drugs in this regard. The discovery of drugs will be relevant to a new drug possession case, and in this respect it should be considered a coincidence finding. The reason for the draft law is that there are doubts as to the interpretation of the provision of the Code of Procedure on the use of chance in cases of dissolution of an association. Procedure focuses in particular on the investigation and prosecution of specific crime, while cases of dissolution of an association are not specifically regulated, and this is probably due to the fact that a resolution case has not been seen for nearly 100 years. A case for the dissolution of an association under the Constitution is among other things: linked to criminal offences which may be attributed to the association. It is therefore quite natural in my optics that the evidence provided, for example. in the context of criminal investigations, may be used in a subsequent winding-up proceedings. An example may be that, in connection with a search or interception of members of the association, the police find evidence that the criminal acts of the members can be attributed to the association or what the purpose of the association is. Of course, the prosecution must be able to use such information. Let me put it another way: it is important for me to be able to walk safely on the streets without having to fear the ravages of criminal gangs, and it would be problematic in my view if evidence from, for example, searches or interceptions which the police legally possess cannot be used in dissolution proceedings against, for example, criminal gangs. The proposal is, moreover, fully in line with the general principle that proof is free, that is to say that appropriate evidence can be produced in court without further permission. In this respect, it is important to bear in mind that the draft law does not change the fact that it must be up to the courts in each case to decide whether a certificate should be rejected if, for example, it is to be rejected. not applicable. It is also up to the courts to determine the weight to be attached to the proof. With those comments, I should like to thank you for your contributions. I look forward to further consideration and will answer any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104341	There are already a few questions, now from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104344	Thank you for your statement. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I fully agree with the intention of the draft law. It is right and proper that we should have done away with the gangs that house and make it uncomfortable to walk the streets. However, as I also hear the Minister say, this is, of course, a legal weighting, as it is today, and that will not be changed. Where I have been a little nervous, even in relation to some of the hearings, is that in the process leading up to the trial itself, one has the opportunity to use such a coincidence finding in concrete terms, for example, to start monitoring where, in the alternative, we would normally say that there should be a court order. Is it correct to understand that this is actually what you say yes to here, namely that you do not have to ask every time? It may be the intention is good, but we're a little out to find out if you have to ask each time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104436	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104438	Thank you. No, that's not what this is about. It is the case that the police can already use coincidence discoveries today, but we are in doubt as to whether it is possible to do so when it comes to the dissolution of an association. Well, it's just to be safe, as to whether you can use it there too. And that is, of course, because, as I also said, we have not been trying for nearly 100 years to have a case for the dissolution of an association. It's not a carte blanche for you to just keep going. You still have to get away with a warrant. However, as I said, it is also possible to use it in cases of dissolution of an association if you find something. It is simply because we are in doubt whether the rules that exist today can be applied, and we just want to make sure that you can. That is how it is, if I may put it very briefly, what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104522	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104524	It is good that I have been so openly in doubt in our work before, and I will look into it in committee. If that is the case, it will be a discussion within us and certainly with many others whether there should be other practices in relation to associations. And that would immediately sound strange, even to me, who is standing and arguing against.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104543	I'm really glad to hear that. I hope we can clarify these questions, because I understand that, just when you hear what this is all about, you are thinking: what kind of gate are we opening here? But it's a long way along the way, just trying to equate this with all other cases. And that is because it is another piece of legislation that has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104601	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104604	I note that the Minister said: 'Of course, you must be able to use random discoveries.' So I would just like to ask: does the Minister not see any legal problems at all in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104619	No, not in relation to this, not at all. Well, we have to remember that if it's a search, it's something the police have legally obtained a warrant for. You've got a warrant for search and maybe you're looking for a weapon, but then you find drugs. Then it'd be a little crazy if you couldn't use the discovery of drugs to make a new case. That is why I say, of course, because it is simply my political position that if you discover crime in connection with a legal search, you should of course be able to use it. And if it were any other case, there would be no doubt that it could be used. But because we have specific legislation on the dissolution of associations, it is that I ask just as quietly: an association should not have a special status compared to everyone else! I mean, I kind of think we're gonna get a more equal legal position for everyone with this bill. As I have said, the legislative proposal has been made because we have simply doubted whether the same rules could be applied. After all, and we all agree on this, this is a very special situation we are faced with, with a case for the dissolution of an association, which we have not tried for nearly 100 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104721	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104724	Among other things: After all, the legal community raises some criticisms in the hearing response. Wouldn't the Minister say what he thinks about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104736	After all, it is the case with consultation answers, and there are many consultation answers every time we have a legislative proposal, that people come up with different concerns in their consultation answers, and that is what you answer. Sometimes you can have a concern that really does not turn out to be there in the legislative proposal. That is why I find it very difficult to fully understand the concern, and I do not share it in this way, because we are trying precisely to adapt what we know far along the way today. I think it is appropriate, then, that we take it up and give some clearer answers in committee so that we can all, hopefully, meet on this proposal. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104815	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104830	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101104848	We are living in a time of rapid technological development. We use our smartphones to pay with, to be on social media with, to take pictures with, yes, we use them all the time and are online all the time. This is, of course, positive in many ways, but technological development also means that we are facing new challenges. I get a lot of inquiries from both young people and their parents who, unfortunately, have been subjected to the taking of pictures that have been published without consent. Sharing private images and videos without consent is therefore part of the new reality. It used to be the case that you had to take a picture with your camera. Then you had to go down and have it developed in the photo dealer, and if you wanted to share it, you had to ride around the community and hang it up with drawing pins on notice boards or maybe with some tape on some lampposts. It's not like that anymore. With very, very few clicks one may have taken a picture and published it, which means that it is available to thousands, even millions of people. It is therefore a development that requires that we also relate to it in this Parliament, not least because there are many people who experience this type of violation. And that's what the bill here is intended to address. The proposal we are discussing here updates the rules in a number of areas in order to ensure better protection of individuals' privacy. I would like to start by saying, before I go to the legislative text, that although we adopt legislation here, and I think that is very important, and I have been calling for this for a number of years, it does not change the fact that we all have a responsibility to use common sense. By that I mean that we both have a responsibility not to share pictures, but equally a responsibility not to sit around and clap our hands when others share pictures, not to like other people's pictures and to share them. This is a common good education and therefore means that we all have to think carefully and carefully about young people and older people. Then for the bill: with the bill, we are modernising the criminal code's provisions on violations of peace and honour and tightening the penalties. That means, among other things, that... an extension of protection against the transmission of nude images. Another important step is that the person convicted of sharing information or images that have violated someone else's privacy is also required to remove it from the Internet. So one can say: Yes, how important is it when it is spread far and wide? In fact, it is of great importance to the victim that a simple google search does not pass over these unpleasant images that have already been shared. So far, it's actually been the case that it was the victim himself who was going in to remove these pictures. It is not a fair thing to experience a huge offense that may be put out naked pictures of a person, and then you have to write or call those who have them, and ask: Will you please remove them, for it is I they imagine. That's not fair. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105217	I would just like to say that the balances should not continue to be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105220	I will not do that, Madam President. President. - Thank you very much. At the same time, we triple the compensation we receive when we are subjected to violations of peace and honour. One of the last elements is that in the draft law we also have a provision in the penal code for unjustified monitoring of other people's behaviour through GPS. This is something we have been asking for for a long time, not least because it is being used by insurance companies. Then there is this last element, which is also very, very important: the responsibility and role of the media in defamation. This means, therefore, that the fine for violations of peace and honour committed by the media is tripled and fivefold for editors in charge, while the fine for infringement of minutes and name bans is also fivefold. And that is something that we have seen several examples of, including recently, namely that there is no respect for when there is no name in a case. There is a reason why the courts are imposing these bans, which is why it is important for the media to respect them. These are all important measures that speed up our legislation in this area, and that is why we support them in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105341	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105356	When you legislate about something that has to do with the media, you have a duty to think really well before. And that is also why we are very pleased that the Minister for Justice has had this bill on the wallpaper before. There has been plenty of time for us to have been able to discuss it and deal with it, and now we are so ready to legislate. For the media have a very special role in a democratic society such as the Danish one and therefore also a special responsibility that goes with it. I really think it is sensible to think about how old some of these provisions are, looking at the legislation that exists and updating it. This is, in fact, one of the major points in the draft law, and we think that is a good thing. We are in a new reality where things are going incredibly fast, where the speed has been completely changed and where the consequences can be much greater, compared to the fact that the stories that are being made may be on the Internet forever; they have not disappeared when the newspapers are thrown out the day after they are here forever and can be brought forward with very few clicks. And that is why it is also a very great responsibility that lies with the free media in our democracies. That is why the initiatives in the media field here are very good. In concrete terms, the government is proposing fivefold the level of fines for violations of peace and honour... something that could affect editors or editors in charge of magazines, magazines, and, indeed, media in general. It's very reasonable. It's even really responsible, I think. We have examples from the Western world where some media have gone far beyond the line. I think we have the benefit of seeing the ugly examples that have been seen in, for example, Britain. Fortunately, we have them to see in Denmark. I hope that will not happen, but I think it is a matter of due diligence that we should, of course, take care to bring our legislation up to date before dealing with these issues, which can both be very cross-border and have enormous consequences for the lives of those who may suffer. In addition, it is proposed to increase fivefold the penalty for infringement of the minutes and name bans. In the first case, the fine will be 25 000 kroner, and I agree that it sounds loud, but I also think it is only fair, because the consequences will be very great for those who may suffer. It proposes a threefold increase in the level of compensation for victims, which is also extremely positive. And then you introduce an opportunity for you to be required to delete articles and images again. In fact, I think that the government has thought a little out of the box, because of course the Internet does not forget, but what you can do at any rate is to see to it that the original texts, which may be the source of a story, are removed. And that is where I think the media have an obligation. So all in all, it is a very good proposal that we in the Danish People's Party have decided to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105703	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101105715	Thank you. That's usually my superliberal colleague, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, rapporteur on this proposal. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has been prevented from attending today, and therefore the honour has been passed on to me. I am actually proud to be standing here because I am not, of course, going to put character on the government's proposal, but I cannot help mentioning it: a super-good proposal with a lot of different details that we have been waiting so much for to clean up and get delivered to, as it is called in modern Danish. In fact, we were already discussing the proposal back in May, and it is now retabled with a supplement, after which the transmission of nude images entered the public space is also specified to be punishable. Otherwise, however, former rapporteurs have gone through the details, and I shall not tire the House any further, but just make it clear that we are not moving the border when we change the consequences for the media. When they bring false information, yes, that does not mean that we move the limit of what must be brought and what must not be brought. It is not a question of moving freedom of speech one millimetre, but we are imposing even more sanctions on the media which cannot comply with the rules of the game. It has simply been too cheap in the past. In my view, the most important thing in the proposal is that it is now the public authorities, now it is the prosecutor who, in the course of the criminal proceedings against the media, ensures that claims for compensation are made for the damage suffered by the wrong agreement. I think many of us remember a terrible case from Herning, where an innocent person is in custody for a murder. He can then, as the merchant drives by in the hallway of the prison, buy the Ekstra Bladet, where on the front page, and there is a nice portrait of the person himself, then says: Shy and girlsky. And there is also a description that this person is now in custody with strong, strong indications that he is, of course, the killer. The killer was found 14 days later. There was DNA that showed that it was a very third person, and he also confessed, and of course our first person was released. He was entitled to a higher amount of compensation from the media that had referred to him and put a picture of him on the front page of this situation. He says later that he didn't have much time to get to work on the case. He had to take the case for himself, and the costs awarded to the other party rarely cover the costs of a case. He gave up getting compensation. This is the end of this proposal, if it is adopted by the Folketing, because now it is the government that is running the compensation case. That's great. Then it is the case that the sentenced persons must be able to be imposed on themselves, i.e.: The newspaper typically deletes defamatory material. It is said that we triple the penalty for violations of peace and honour and five times the penalty for editors in charge, mass media. Many media see an interest in breaking name and record bans. Maybe that was wrong. I have to say this in another way: at least in some cases, even if the judge during the trial has banned names and minutes, the media do not fail to indicate in one way or another who is now on the dock. If that happens, we'll have to say it doesn't cost $5,000. In the future. Then it costs 25,000 kroner, and I hope it can dampen the desire. One should have no doubt that one could indeed have considered looking at what profit the media have from bringing false references and breaking, for example, name and record bans. The problem is that it's a little hard to make up, and that's why we're using fixed numbers here. We also triple the level of compensation for the damage it has suffered. It has been too small in the past, and now you have the opportunity, if you do not let go of injury, to get a Band-Aid on the wound here. So this is quite a good proposal, and I should like to conclude by noting that a provision has now been supplemented by a penalty for the person who transmits nude images recorded in the public domain. Of course, it can be said that it is the person's own risk to bathe naked on the beach, and there may be good reason for this. We must just say that it is not being made illegal to take a picture of them either, but it is being made illegal, if I may say so, to continue to colport the picture to an unlimited circle. That is what will be illegal for the future. The Left can support the proposal one hundred per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110213	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur. Enhedslisten is not present, so this is Mrs. Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110239	In the Liberal Alliance, it is our clear position that a free press should have as wide a framework as possible. That is the way it must and must be in a free society, fortunately. It is also the clear position of the Liberal Alliance that we must ensure that privacy is protected. It is important that people cannot just have their privacy violated without having consequences for those who do so. That is the way it must and must be in a free society, fortunately. The legislative proposal we are discussing here is about modernising and strengthening the criminal justice defence against violations of peace and honour, as well as strengthening the protection and assistance of victims of peace and defamation. It is important, especially in a modern digital world where information is rapidly disseminated, that the provisions of the Penal Code on violations of peace and honour are up-to-date and best protect the privacy of individuals. It is important that we can live in security and with certainty that there is respect for our privacy. The bill contains a large number of elements. Some of the most central elements of the proposal are the more up-to-date protection against the transmission of nude images and the tightening of penalties for breaches of the provisions on violations of peace and defamation, as well as raising the level of compensation in these cases. In this way, the punishment better reflects the extent of the damage and thus affects those who exhibit and violate the privacy of others. We in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a positive step, as it strengthens privacy, and that is why we support the proposal in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110413	Thank you. The next one is sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110421	Digital development, including for the media, is completely incalculable now and has been so for many years. It is important to have in the back of your head when you legislate. That is why we also very much agree with the government that this is a good legislative proposal and I would simply like to lean on the fine rapporteur's speech which my colleague Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left gave before. I can't say that much more professionally. The points of interest I have had in relation to the proposal are the Danish Journalists' Association, which has raised a few index fingers. There is a battle side, I think, in terms of interest, in terms of where they stand and how they look at the proposal. However, I also believe that we are obliged, particularly when it comes to freedom of expression and the role of the press, to read those answers once more and, for my part, as a new rapporteur, to have a dialogue with the journalists' association. However, I do not see that this is going to change our position here, so it is a big yes on our part to a good legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110515	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110523	Thank you for that, President. This bill raises a very important issue. Well, of course it has to be that you can lie on the beach without having to worry about whether someone takes a picture and it's suddenly divided all sorts of places. That is why I think it is very good that we should now focus on the division of images. In the Radical Left we are very concerned at the fact that we are simply getting something done to stop, that right now there is just a culture where there are many people taking pictures and recording films, and then all of a sudden there are nude images of oneself that are flourishing in all sorts of places. And that is why we would very much like to go further, namely to ensure that vengeance porn and the like are equal to sexuality crimes, in other words rapes in general, so that we can close the doors and give anonymity to the victims. But here we are taking a first and important step. That is why I would just like to focus a little on one thing, namely that in this draft law we are proposing higher penalties. And it is very rare for the Minister of Justice to hear from the radical legal rapporteur that we actually think it would be sensible to set up penalties. For, in general, we in the Radical Left believe that we should do punishment that works, and in many areas it seems the opposite to putting up the penalty; it just makes people become even more criminal while they are in prison. But right here there may be a good reason why the responsible editors who sit around and are responsible for what they print in their newspaper should know that it has a cost. And that is why we can see the reason why we are setting the penalty right here. So, for once, the Radical Left would like to contribute to the punishment. So we're going into this committee work with our eyes open. And I should also like to welcome Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten's legal rapporteur, and say that they are awaiting the work of the committee before taking a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110746	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110754	Of course, SF fully supports the extended protection in relation to the transmission of nude images. We fully share the view that the people who use vengeance porn must be severely beaten. We also think it is good to extend the media liability law to cover media that are not currently associated with the Press Office. However, we are somewhat hesitant about another part of the bill, namely the issue of raising the level of compensation from the DKK 100,000. $300,000. We believe that there should be a broad framework for the public debate, and one might ask, as the lawyer Leif Donbæk has done in the Ekstra Bladet: Should Mother State really defend your honour? In conclusion, I would like to say that the SF is what we can call a positive wait for the draft law, and later in the committee work we will make our final position known.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110855	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110857	It is simply out of ignorance, because the last point may be something I have overlooked. But can the rapporteur just elaborate on the scepticism that existed and that Mr. Leif Donbæk had lifted his vows in relation to your honor?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110911	As it is today, your prospect of obtaining a limited compensation may help to dampen the huts in relation to conducting legal proceedings. As I said, we are reluctant to do so, because we would just like to be absolutely sure that we have examined adequately whether the prospect of a substantially higher compensation will be able to speed up further legal proceedings, and is it really our state that will have to go in and defend your honour? We are not completely rejecting it, but we are thinking that we should have it checked out completely, because we do not want further support to be given to court cases in relation to statements, because we are saying that there must be a broad framework in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101110953	Thank you. There are no further comments. There is no rapporteur present for the Conservative People's Party. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111005	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the proposal. As you know, the bill was already presented to Parliament in the last parliamentary assembly as bill no. L 240. We had a very good debate in this Chamber about the bill back in May and then it was sent in public consultation. Now it has been retabled with one major change and, in addition, only with minor adjustments. Overall, the aim of the draft law is to continue to modernise and strengthen criminal justice against violations of peace and honour, as well as to strengthen the protection and assistance of victims of violations of peace and honour. We can all imagine what it must be like to make the front page of a magazine or newspaper with private information that you do not want to share with others. Everyone must be able to live safely and expect respect for their privacy. However, with the digitalisation of recent decades, information can spread very quickly via the Internet, and the whole population can potentially get to know them in a very short time. At the same time, it is difficult and in some cases completely impossible to get data deleted again once they are spread on the Internet. Therefore, there is a greater risk of major damage and more persistent violations than, for example, there is a risk of serious damage. is in violation through printed newspapers or the like. As mentioned, a single major change has been made to the draft law compared to the last session. It now also provides extended protection against passing nude images taken in public spaces. This is something that I have said several times I will look at, I am glad that with the bill we ensure a better balance and protection against the transmission of nude images. The change here means, among other things, that in future it will in general be a criminal offence to pass on a picture of a person who bathes naked or sunbaths topless on a beach. It is my clear view that everyone should have the opportunity to appear naked on a beach without having anyone other than those present to see him or her and, above all, without having to go and fear that others will share pictures of it. The aim of the proposal is therefore to hit those who want to expose others and violate the privacy of others. I do not see that there should be an interest in protecting such behavior. Another key part of the bill is the tightening of the penalty for violations of citizens' privacy. The penalty today does not measure up to the extent of the damage, when information on private relationships or private images has been distributed to the whole population. And it must not be the case that the media can ultimately make money by violating citizens' rights to privacy. It is simply not worth committing violations of peace and honour. The average penalty for fines for violations of peace and honour is up to DKK 5,000. This is by no means a level reflecting the infringement of the offence or the benefit that illegal information may give to the medium. The level is far too low. This also applies, although journalists and editors in particular are in some cases fined a little higher. It is therefore proposed that the penalty be tripled for violating the provisions of the criminal code on violations of peace and honour. This is generally the case, regardless of who committed the infringement. That means that this applies not only to journalists but, for example, to journalists. For example, for private individuals who violate some of the provisions of the Treaty on European Union, for example the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European In relation to editors-in-chief, who have a special responsibility to ensure that the media do not violate privacy, the penalty is proposed fivefold. The penalty for infringement of name bans is also fivefold, regardless of who committed the offence. The draft law also ensures better protection for victims who have been the victims of an infringement. It can, for example, be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This will mean that the victims will receive financial compensation that better reflects the violation they have been subjected to. At the same time, the government wants it to be easier and simpler for victims to remove the insulting information from the Internet. It is therefore proposed that judges be given the opportunity to require the person who has violated someone else to delete the offending material from the Internet. If others have available material on the Internet, they may be required to delete it. Another initiative aimed at ensuring better protection for victims is that, at the request of the victim, the prosecution should have access to cases of grosser defamation. Nowadays, you have to conduct the case yourself and possibly pay the costs. The bill also contains a number of other proposals. This applies, among other things, to: a criminalisation of unauthorised surveillance of a person's movements by means of a GPS or similar apparatus. Digital development has created a need for the criminal code to provide protection against such surveillance. It is also a proposal that is involved in the fight against psychological violence. The crisis centres see examples of the use of GPS, such as: may be placed in the children's teddy bears to track people hiding in a shelter. With some exceptions, the bill does not change what is a violation of privacy, but we change the sanctions if there is an infringement and we help the victims. That is what is essential to me, namely that we can take these measures without restricting freedom of expression. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111530	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111554	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111605	This is not the first time we have dealt with a proposal here in Parliament on the legalisation of pepper sprays, actually we have dealt with it many times in recent years. In the Social Democratic Party we still do not believe that pepper spray should be legalised. We do not believe that the idea will be better simply by discussing it several times or the proposal that we are discussing here today, which is a partial legalisation. For us, the basic attitude is the same. We do not believe that small arms should be legalised in order to create greater security. We listen to the police when they strongly advise against legalising small arms such as pepper spray and have done so several times. Indeed, there is a great risk of criminals arming up if pepper spray is legalised as small arms. It highlights all the experts in this field. In the worst case scenario, it can mean more knives and other weapons in perpetrators who can cause great damage. That is, again, what the police say, and we are listening to it, and that is why we are voting against the proposal. For the Social Democrats, the safety and security of the Danes is absolutely crucial, it has a very, very high priority, but we do not believe that the solution to the growing insecurity is to legalise small arms, but rather to combat crime and the causes of crime. And not least, we must ensure that there are enough police to come when the Danes call, and we must ensure that there are enough police to create security. However, we do not believe that the solution to insecurity is to allow everyone over 18 years of age to be free to buy small arms and store them at home, as the proposal here is about. And here I am particularly sensitive to the fact that the comments on the draft law state that legalisation will increase accessibility, including for persons who are deemed to be able to abuse access. One thing is that you can acquire it to have it at home, but it will tempt some to bring the pepper spray in the public room, where it will not be legal with this proposal. And it is therefore quite incomprehensible to me that the government believes that the solution to the Danes' insecurity is to make access to weapons easier when the Minister of Justice himself recognises the increased risk of abuse. In addition, legalisation could lead to accidents at home. In Germany, where conflicts between spouses have ended in hospital visits for a number of children. And it will also mean that ordinary Danes may wrongly end up using them and being punished for violence and thus turned into perpetrators because they have used them for illegal purposes. So, in my view, this proposal does not, under any circumstances, contribute to more security and is something that we in the Socialist Group reject, so we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101111924	Thank you. The Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party disagree very much on this very point, but it should not stop me from asking a few informative questions to find out exactly what the Social Democrats want here. What I am interested in in the first round is that the government is suggesting that special groups should have the opportunity to bring this pepper spray. If the Social Democratic Party could decide everything, would it also have provided that we adopt it here, it's the plan said this group should be taken off the pepper sprays again at a later stage? In other words, would it be possible to maintain the possibility for special groups of stalking victims, rape victims, to be allowed to wear a pepper spray?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112009	Well, we're against the adoption of this proposal. And if I understand, sir... Peter Kofod's question is correct: if it is adopted, at a later stage we will choose to change the law again. My answer is that it depends on what the majority of Parliament wants, because of course we respect that. But the Socialist position on this is very clear: we do not think it is a good idea. However, there may be some things that already make it impossible to roll back such legislation when you legalize it. Because the number of pepper sprays has become so large that it is impossible to involve them all, so it would make no sense to start changing the law. That is also why I am using my speaking time here today to strongly warn against our first legalisation of small arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112103	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112105	Let's call it what it is, namely pepper spray. When you say handguns, we all think of a gun. So let's call it pepper spray. Well, I got the answer to my question. My next question is what can be done to enforce this to some people whom I do not think should have it • some who probably already have it to this day. Well, it's a fact that a few kilometres from where I live, you can drive to Germany and buy them completely legally. I could imagine that part of the Danes are already doing so and some of them are not doing so with the right intentions. So the question is, can you make this arrangement better for Mr. And Mrs. Jensen, who would like to have one in their home? And can you hit them harder that you don't want them to? There I want to hear the Socialists: will you help to say that people who may abuse this system, who cannot find out, must have a harder blow with the Crabian, that is, if it is up to the Social Democratic Party? Is that something we could work together on, that is to say, to look at that part of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112157	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112200	I think it makes very good sense that, whatever a majority here in the Danish Parliament may choose to introduce, we look at what the consequences of this are. We are happy to take a look at: How does this work? Is it being used beyond purpose? And what can we do to limit it? We are happy to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112240	I shall not hide the fact that I have been waiting for this bill for a very long time, that I have been looking forward to having it dealt with first, and that I look forward to having it dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and that, of course, I am also looking forward to having it adopted, hopefully, and that it will enter into force. I might as well start with the most important thing, and that is that we in the Danish People's Party are going to support the bill. We have tabled resolutions on several occasions on the legalisation of pepper spray. Our proposal seems to me to have been more ambitious than what the government is proposing. In other words, the government's solution is to say, and there may be arguments for being a little cautious in the first place and gaining experience from other countries. After doing so, they say that we start with a home solution, which is about people being allowed to own a pepper spray, have it at home and use it, in case someone had to try to break in or jump through a window, or what do I know to force access. So it is our impression that it is a very good means of defence. The alternative to a pepper spray that is, I just have to say, quite harmless, because it is an extract of cayenne pepper that would be that you had a baseball club standing or a kitchen knife lying down, that is weapons that would have caused permanent damage, chronic damage, and in the worst case could end up killing people. It is our impression that this is the most peaceful and best solution for the Danes. We would probably have been more ambitious. We really believe that when the people of other countries can handle this, well then the Danes are probably not so different from our neighbours south, where you have a very easy availability of pepper sprays; so that way I don't think we should be so worried. The Danes can do these things themselves, but we want to see that. Our approach will be to adopt what is here and then to evaluate the scheme in a few years' time and to see whether it could be as dramatic as some people predicted, but in which I did not believe, and that we will take the debate when we reach that time. I am convinced that when we reach the day when we're going to evaluate this scheme, the answer will be that this is what the Danes have been able to find out, and that many probably want us to be able to take one more step. I think there is the small, fine opening in the proposal that the government is suggesting that if it is about stalking victims, you will have the opportunity to carry this pepper spray with you. There are things that we believe can do better in committee than that. So, could it not be imagined, as one of the hearing answers says, that the customs officers who stand on the border line and have colleagues who carry not only pepper spray, but real handcuffs there, of course, I am thinking of the police guns or the armament and equipment that is given to people in the defense and the Home Guard • could also be allowed to wear a pepper spray? If we could decide, yes, then we think we could. Could it be imagined that prison officers who have been subjected to quite unreasonable pressure could be allowed, when driving to and from work, to carry a pepper spray in the public space? Yeah, we could see that too. So there are some things where we think that, within the limits of fairness of what has been put forward by the government, we could adjust some things that could make this even better. I think that we should have two approaches to this question: there is the whole question that concerns Mr Seligman. and Mrs Jensen, who just wants the pepper spray in the kitchen drawer at home or where they want it and who doesn't intend to use it for anything other than self-defense. Then there are all those people who already had to have a pepper spray to this day, and here, of course, I am referring to people who are criminals. In other words, they will have bought one of these in the border trade in Germany or where one can now be bought. So the wrong people already have this pepper spray today. The question is whether we can differentiate it in some way, so we say: on the one hand, we would like to take account of Mr. and Mrs Jensen, on the other hand, perhaps we would like to go further and hit even harder on the people who are not supposed to wear pepper spray in public space. We could see there that this could be another element in going harder for gang members, so if there is a gang member who had to carry a pepper spray like this, we could do something to turn extra heavily on the penalty screw, if you have been punished in advance, to make it less attractive for some of those who could be out there who might have wrong intentions and who already today have to carry around on such a pepper spray. So if we could do more for it, that will be one of the things we will be looking at in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The bottom line is that the government is taking small steps, but we recognise that, because we are moving in the right direction, and we have time to wait for that. We support the proposal, but will of course also see if we can do a little better when we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112732	Then there are questions. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112740	I fully hear the rapporteur's arguments as to why pepper spray is good. Then I can disagree. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not right that it can escalate a conflict, in other words when the awareness that there may be more and more people with a pepper spray is there. If there is one who commits a home robbery and comes in and suspects that there may be such pepper sprays, if I am not to call them small arms, in circulation, does the rapporteur not think that we might resort to harder action from the start? I do not know, but that is at least one of the things I have read in some of the hearings, in other words, if we legalise and legalise the presence of media, we can escalate the conflicts. I'm not saying it solves the problem, because if you're an assailant or a robber, you can come in and do something terrible anyway. But one of our concerns is that it simply escalates the conflict, even if it is only at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112837	That is also what I have read in some of the hearings. I have to say that I disagree. If I were a burglar and wanted to break in with Mr. Cole... René Gade, what would I do most to prepare for Mr. René Gade has a pepper spray or a kitchen knife or a baseball bat or possibly a hunter and has access to real weapons, i.e. guns? What would I prepare most for, what would I have to step up in advance? I think the pepper spray might have been what I'd been least afraid of. I think it could be seen precisely from the other side, that this could help people to have a tool that does not, at least in very many cases, damage both the attacker and potentially, if it is reversed, the defender chronically. I think that is very positive. You can never know if there will be any case, and there will be any type of legislation, but I do not see this as a major breach in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112932	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101112935	We're talking about a big bill, but now I'm just talking about some very low-practical consequences, so you can understand it, because that's what I might be interested in. If I was attacked, unfortunately, it's limited how much I can do. I'm not violently agile in corporal warfare, so I guess I'd just go a long way and say, "Okay, do what you have to do." If this is something that is actually against me as a person and not a robbery, I am afraid that this will just escalate the conflict because it may still be the weakest party, and that is why it may become a false security. We cannot know that, but it is a question of false security, in which at the same time we see that it may be a slippage in the legislation we are worried about here. But I hear the rapporteur's arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113020	It is clear that this will also be the case for some people who use it. There'll be someone where it's safe to know you have it. That is also what I see the government has justified some of these things in the commentary and in the comments. I think that's fine, because that angle is also there. I just don't think you do anything really violent or crazy about this. I don't have to decide if people want it either. Sir. René Gade did not think he could be corporal, and there I can say that I am also an arm of cake, and I do not know whether I should have the pepper spray at the end of the day, so people have to go all the way if they want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113055	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any comments. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113104	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I have spoken in this case and in the previous cases on behalf of Mr Seligman. Nas Khader of the Conservative People's Party. It is such for small parties that it can be difficult to be everywhere in Christiansborg, so many things happen, and therefore I am also authorised to speak on his behalf. The proposal we are discussing here today concerns the purchase and purchase of pepper spray, and the government will, with the agreement of the Left, allow people over 18 years of age to use at home and for use in a possible self-defence situation. I must say at the outset that it is not the case that we are forcing people to buy a pepper spray. It's still clear. There will be the possibility that those who seek some security by having a pepper spray may acquire one. Personally, I do not think, in order to stay in the last debate here, that I will be acquiring one, but there are people who are looking for some security, and it is not reasonable, in my view, that they should not be allowed to seek it; they can actually go to Germany to a large extent today and buy it. This means, of course, that it alone must be used in a self-defence situation, that is to say. the situation referred to in section 13 of the Criminal Code, where one must therefore defend oneself, but of course not in any way attack. I definitely don't think it's gonna cause any trouble. I think that once the situation has arisen, a court can then find out who is the attacker and who is the defender and can also judge whether you have gone further in your defence than you actually had to. For some people there is some security about this, but I must just say and indeed also warn that when we allow the purchase of pepper spray and the purchase of pepper spray and that you can have it at home for self-defense, that does not mean that you have to leave the front door open. Because in some situations pepper spray can give a false sense of security. But I repeat, I do not have to decide that. On the contrary, I have to decide whether people who want to buy a pepper spray themselves can acquire it, and we would like to allow that. On the other hand, I also think that it would be a good idea for such an acquisition, which can only take place through arms dealers, to be supplemented by a guide, perhaps a guide that tells people how far one can go in the given situation. Now one of the previous speakers, the Social Democrat rapporteur, said that it could also be used in marital disputes. Yes, so can a plate, and so can the kitchen knife, I have to say. For example, the guidance could then clarify what is also stated in the observations made by the law, that the pepper spray is used in, for example, a marital dispute or in any other way, where there is no emergency defence, it is a serious use of force, it is a gross violence, and then it is a punishment under section 245 of the penal code, and it is a severe punishment. Perhaps there is some reason to point this out to potential buyers. I assume that this is something that we can look at in committee to see if there is a need for some easy guidance to supplement it with the purchase. In addition to the possibility now being created to acquire it for self-defence at home, the proposal means that those who find themselves in a rather insecure situation, for example. to be stalked or similar, may apply for police permission to wear a pepper spray in the public room, but that is the exception, I have to say, and it will certainly be managed by the authorities as well. It is at home that you are allowed to have a pepper spray, and in the public room you are not allowed to have a pepper spray unless you have obtained the permission of the police, a permit which is only given in very special situations. So I would say that on this basis, and as the law has now been drafted, we have discussed it in the past, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber, the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113528	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113533	That is because the rapporteur of the Left said something like: there are people seeking the security of having a pepper spray, and it would not be fair if they were not to have that safety. Well, that wouldn't be fair. So I'm just thinking, what about the people who would seek security in a stronger weapon? In other words, would it not also be unreasonable for them not to have that security?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113603	Thank you. It is possible that I said so, but let me correct: I think there are people who will see it as a safety to have a pepper spray. I think I also mentioned my own example, and I do not think I should have one, because I am not quite sure that there is the security that many people think there is about it, but that was a side remark. Can the same argument not also be used to release machine guns and other items for private use? No, it can't. As was correctly produced by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, we have here a weapon in the eyes of the goose that is as innocent as it can possibly be. That is why I am certainly not concerned that it is being released.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113637	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113641	Well, what's the difference? Well, when the Left argues that it is, because people will feel safe by getting a pepper spray, what is the difference? Should not the Left be in favour of legalising other weapons if it makes people feel safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113702	No, the difference is the nature of the weapon. That is what I said earlier, namely that pepper spray is, however, the least possible remedy that can be used when it comes to defence at home, if you are not equally roaring. The strong and the big will be able to defend themselves, but there are people who can't do it. René Gade mentioned himself earlier, and we are others who can also supplement by saying that we are not so strong and therefore there are some who will seek security in having the opportunity. And I have to say that this is the least possible means in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113734	Thank you for that and then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Lene Foged, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113753	It is one of our most important tasks as politicians to ensure the safety of the Danes. It is crucial for the Liberal Alliance that the Danes can feel safe everywhere, wherever they live and wherever they go, but of course especially in our own home. With this proposal, we are taking a big step in the effort to make the Danes feel safe in their own homes. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the fact that the bill we are discussing here provides for citizens to now have the opportunity to protect themselves with a pepper spray. By partly legalising pepper spray for people over 18 years of age for self-defense in their own homes and for vulnerable people travelling in public spaces, we make some citizens actually safer. We ensure security for the ordinary citizen who fears home robbery or is attacked at home and who now has the opportunity to acquire and possess a pepper spray for self-defense in his own home. This gives some a tremendous sense of security. We ensure security for the vulnerable who have been attacked or the like and who can now be allowed to wear pepper spray in the public room. It can also provide an enormous sense of security. In this context, it is important to point out that the general ban on pepper spray in public spaces is not lifted by this bill. One thing is the physical function of the pepper spray, another is the very awareness of being able to defend itself. It is consciousness itself that creates security for many. That possession of a pepper spray can give some Danes a special sense of security, we in the Liberal Alliance have a great understanding of. It has therefore long been the position of the Liberal Alliance that the possession and ownership of pepper spray should be legalised. That is why we welcome the proposal here, which partially legalises pepper spray, and we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113949	Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101113954	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. In many ways we are in the Danish People's Party in this case linked up with the Liberal Alliance in such a kind of community of fate that fights for the safety of the Danes, and I just want to hear: Now that we have evaluated these rules in a couple of years, does the Liberal Alliance not still believe that it should take the step fully and say that it is not only in private homes, so that law-abiding Danes we have so much confidence that they could carry it on the street as well? Will the Liberal Alliance help to take the step fully when we come to an evaluation at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114033	Thank you for the question. I'm guilty of your answer, unfortunately, but it's something we might be able to investigate and return to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114042	That's fine, thanks for that. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114052	As one of the parties that is not the most important in the Folketing, we enjoy being able to go to the platform like some who have listened to the others. I can then say that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, quite well explained our point of view as well. We are also opposed to the bill. So I'll just allow myself to dive into some elements where I think it's interesting as a court rapporteur to look at this particular bill. I asked Mr. Peter Kofod a little earlier, in terms of whether it is a false sense of security that you get from getting legalised pepper spray, to the extent that the government is up to here. That is, after all, a more limited scope than what has been discussed in the past. That is what we are priced and think is sensible in the alternative. We're still away from this, but anyway if it's within the four walls of the home, it could be a kitchen knife, or it could be anything else instead, as I've heard arguments about, and that's a fair argument. We simply believe that it is a false security and we believe that it might escalate conflict. One of the things I prepared for was looking at Helping Victims of Victims' Hearing Response. We have an idea that when we come up with a position on such a bill and when I go to the Chamber, I also have to find two good arguments against, that is, something that could actually get us across to the other side. And when Help Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims speak of the possibility that there might be a system for the particularly vulnerable to be given the opportunity to do so, frankly, I find it a little difficult to argue against. But I choose to do it anyway, because I believe in principle that we should not do this in relation to allowing weapons or pepper sprays. So we are against, but I can already feel that it will then be one of the most exciting areas in which to be rapporteur, because my sense of justice is constantly being challenged, in terms of what is research and legally the right thing to do, and I will continue to shed light on that and to learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114237	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114246	Thank you for that, President. Trump would be proud of you. Well, this is the first step towards American conditions. And what are you imagining? The Danish People's Party talks about having it in the kitchen drawer. You could also have it standing on the toilet with the toothpaste. And then I'd like to ask, do you really think that people will feel safer? I think it might actually be the opposite. I think that when you have to get a potter or you have to brush your teeth, and you see that pepper spray, you will be reminded of your own insecurity, and then it may actually seem the opposite. The question is, what if someone actually came? What would the pepper spray do? There I feel the same way, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said earlier, with reference to the police's concern. I believe that such a pepper spray could actually help to escalate, so we will just see that there are stronger weapons coming from the other side and that we will therefore risk getting some much worse situations than there are today. That is why it is a little interesting when the rapporteur of the Left argues that this is the smallest weapon, or when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party argues with what the alternative is, and that is that we have a baseball bat standing. It depends whether this is really the case, i.e. whether the situation in the Danish homes is such that everyone has a baseball bat standing. Because that would be right, perhaps the pepper spray could be a smaller weapon, but that is not the alternative. The alternative is that we do not have weapons in Danish homes, because we do not want them. I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we are opposed to this proposal, and I welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they are also against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114453	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mr. Peter Kofod, I would just like to say that you do not have to address the Members directly. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114504	Thank you. It is always exciting when a rapporteur's speech starts with Trump being proud. When that is the starting point, one knows that there is something in store in the good bag. I cannot understand why the Radical Left, which is usually a party that is immensely concerned about looking out at Europe, can come to the conclusion that Trump would be proud after the Ministry of Justice has done the great review of other countries. Now I know that the Radicals have a weakness for Macron, and he would say that in Denmark they are a little relaxed; it is not right that the Radicals should get on the beat. For what is really in the government's proposal is more relaxed than what is in many of the countries that would normally be compared with. So in order to put Trump, Macron and also Merkel in whose countries they also have a different harder policy than this one, can I ask: does the radical rapporteur really believe that this is going to be so dramatic? So, do you have such low confidence in the Danes that you don't think they can handle the same thing that the Germans or anyone else could handle?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114609	We believe that this is a step in the wrong direction and therefore we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114619	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114621	I promise the radical rapporteur that we will not come at a later stage and propose to legalise machine guns or real handguns. I do not think that a pepper spray can be referred to as a real handgun. In any case, the deodorant suddenly turns into a handgun, and then all sorts of other things in a private home turn into a handgun. But I'll guarantee we won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114647	I do not really know whether to think that it is in some way a bit of comfort that the Danish People's Party will already write off that possibility in advance, because we risk facing the situation that if it is quite common that people have pepper spray, then if they are going to do a home robbery, some will bring stronger weapons. And then you would find yourself in a situation where you would have to discuss from in here whether you would not have to re-arm, so that people would feel secure with the words of the rapporteur of the Left, and whether it would be unreasonable not to give them the new security. So this is a slippery slope, and that's why we're in the Radical Left against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114729	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114737	Then we will have to discuss the arms race again, which will certainly end in the opposite place than where they say they want to go. Pepper spray, like other weapons, won't provide any more security. On the contrary, we run the risk of the arms race creating more insecurity. What is the next weapon to be approved? Who really recommends the legalization of pepper sprays, except for those who produce them? At least we can see an attitude here from the Crime Prevention Council that says: "It can also provide false security. When pepper spray is legalized at home, everyone gets easy access to it. This means that it also becomes more accessible to robbers and people in confrontation with public authorities. It was the Crime Prevention Council, and then we have received a hearing answer from some who, at least, cannot generally be called a part of such a left-wing wing. It is from Dansk Erhverv who writes: "It is therefore to be expected that there will be much more pepper spray in circulation than we see today. A pepper spray is a weapon. A weapon can be used for both defense and attack. Several weapons in circulation can therefore increase the uncertainty and insecurity of the retail trade. They also write: "With this proposal, the availability of a tool that can pacify shop workers is made significantly easier." The last thing I want to quote is from Danish Women's Society, which says: "In short, we in Danish Women's Society are concerned that the use of pepper spray can escalate a conflict in a home and thus lead to more harm than good. It can have a counterproductive effect in our optics to allow you to acquire a pepper spray. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114922	Thank you. And then it's the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101114930	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. The security of the Danes is one of the highest priorities of the government. This is especially true of the individual Dane's safety in his own home. A home should be a safe place where you as a citizen decide who you let in. As a result, domestic assault, home robberies, and burglary constitute a particular violation of the security and integrity of the victims. We therefore want to strengthen efforts to ensure that all citizens in this country feel secure in their own homes, and that is why the bill is being proposed. The aim of the bill is to allow citizens to buy a pepper spray that will be able to be used for self-defense in their own homes. By legalising the possession of pepper spray in your own home, you are given the opportunity as a citizen to be in possession of a means that can be used as protection against hardened criminals. It is the government's view that the awareness that it will be possible to protect itself in the event of, for example, a home robbery can help to increase the security of the individual's home. And what we are actually proposing with the bill is a partial legalisation which means that people who have reached the age of 18 can legally acquire a pepper spray and possess it in their own homes. Pepper spray may only be used for self-defense in the context of legal emergency guardians. The draft law does not mean that the general ban on pepper spray in the public space is lifted. Furthermore, in order to ensure that all citizens are free to move around without fear of assault or the like, we propose that it should be possible for vulnerable persons to obtain permission from the police to wear pepper spray in public spaces. For example, it will. could be persons considered by the police to be at risk of assault in connection with honor-related conflicts or similar. This part is not formally part of the bill we are discussing today, but will be implemented administratively by amending the weapons order and the arms circle. We in the government are aware that partial legalisation of pepper spray will increase the availability of pepper spray and thus also the risk of a greater spread of pepper spray in society. This also applies to the risk of pepper spray ending up in the hands of people who might use pepper spray as an attack weapon and thus for anything other than self-defense. In order to counter that risk, this bill also proposes raising the penalty for violation of the general ban on the possession of pepper spray in public spaces for persons who have previously been sentenced to prison for violation of arms law or the provisions of the criminal code relating, inter alia, to: violence or robbery when possession has taken place in places or in circumstances where there is a high risk of violence in experience. It may be evening and night hours in the restaurant environment. And specifically, it is proposed that in these cases the penalty should be set at prison for 14 days in the first case. I believe that this proposal has struck the right balance between, on the one hand, the right of citizens to safety in their own homes and to move freely without being attacked and, on the other hand, the risk of misuse of pepper spray for anything other than self-defense. With those comments, I would like to thank the speakers and look forward to the further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115242	Thank you. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115245	After all, we must always try to find the positive, and I think it is very positive that the Minister for Justice is rejecting the fact that pepper sprays should be legalized throughout society, that is to say, a general legalisation of pepper sprays, so in this context I would like to ask the Minister for Justice how he envisages obtaining a pepper spray when you are not allowed to have it in society. I think that is interesting to clarify so that we do not risk a whole lot of citizens legally buying a pepper spray to carry them home in their car and then being stopped on the way home with a pepper spray in the car and being convicted of having it illegally. So how does the Minister of Justice think it will work in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115334	I think it should work in practice like any other thing you can buy. Well, you can't drive around with big knives, for example, but you can drive in to an hardware store and buy a large kitchen knife and bring it home. It is clear that you cannot just say that I just bought a pepper spray and then drive around with it in the car. I'm thinking it's kind of a thought example. I understand that this is being asked because it is so classic: how are we going to document it? But just as we can with other cases, I'm not so afraid of it. I think more that the challenge is, of course, that there may be criminal types who want to use it in public spaces, and there you can say that if they want to, they might have run over the border and bought one already, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115419	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115423	What will the Minister of Justice do when there are beginning to be examples that there have either been accidents at home or that a pepper spray has been abused?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115435	As with so many other legislative proposals, of course, you look at what the consequences of this will be. I don't have a glass ball I can look into and see what happens in the future. There is no place, as far as I have seen, in other countries where lasting but or damage to this has occurred. Of course there may be accidents, but I feel that if you as a family choose to say that at home we want a pepper spray, I also assume that you have so much sense that you want to have it in a place where it is well secured. It's up to the individual family. There are also people who frivolously drive around in a car and do not drive properly. That is why we are not banning cars either. This is also about people taking responsibility, and I do feel that a family will, of course, make sure that their children can't get anywhere near one of these. So what might happen, we'll have to see if that happens, but why should it happen here in particular?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115531	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115533	In fact, the Minister may explain this to me, in other words, that he imagines that the pepper spray will be placed in a place where it is well secured. I assume that if pepper spray is to work, it must be a place where you can get to it very quickly, otherwise it is fine that it is buried somewhere up behind some duvets at the top of the cupboard, but then you won't find it. How does the Minister think we should avoid domestic accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115607	One can imagine that Mrs Lotte Rod had asked the question: how does the Minister envisage avoiding accidents with kitchen knives hanging in the kitchen? I have to assume that if you're a parent, you knock on your brain and think about how to keep this thing in your home the best way you can. I don't want to get involved in that. I don't want to get involved where people have their things at home. If you choose to buy a pepper spray, where should you have it? I suppose you think if you have small children, just as I suppose you think if you have small children and you have knives in front of you. Well, I don't understand why this is such a special issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115645	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115650	The fantasy of the left wing is sometimes amazing. I do not know what to call it admiration that a pepper spray, which is such a small spray can of a few centimeters, suddenly sounds like a hand grenade to be kept under special conditions and preferably locked in and at least away from children. I'm so impressed! But I just want to ask the minister 'cause it's not a dangerous weapon in this way... if it might be possible for you to get an overview of what happens in your homes. I mean, what's hurting kids? I read at one point that it was a problem and a very big problem, which had some very serious consequences if children pulled down an electric kettle where there was water, because it could be burned off. There are so many dangerous things in a home that you are deeply surprised. So maybe it could be very good to get some of those numbers about what it looks like in other countries. Well, I just have to say that I can't imagine that there are very many people who are going to get hurt by a pepper spray. I do not know whether the Minister can answer how many children are injured in Danish homes every year because they have obtained father's or mother's deodorant or hairspray. It may be that the Minister can shed some light on it, because the argument against this proposal seems, frankly, somewhat sought if I am asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115810	I sense that the questioner needed to make a comment rather than to ask a question, and I can understand that, because it is a debate that arouses something in us. Then I would like to thank you for the confidence that I have an idea of how many accidents happen with hair spray or deodorants. I simply have no idea, but we could ask around about pepper spray. Can we find somewhere and I do not know how quickly we can get such information around Europe • find examples that it has caused lasting damage and how much damage is actually being done? We can do that, but I think that the bottom line must be that we here in the Danish Parliament show confidence in the Danish citizens who want to have a pepper spray in their homes • that the citizens who want it are also able to think so far that they have it in a place where, for example, they are able to think so far. A 4-year-old child doesn't suddenly get his hands on it and gets hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101115901	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130003	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130039	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start a little more specifically on this rapporteur's speech. I'm actually gonna tell you a little bit about how my week went by. It is a rather special week because, as everyone knows, I have been sitting with my good friend Mattias Tesfaye and negotiating foreign labour. And then on Monday we were thrown out of the negotiations on foreign labour, because the government really wants it in this Chamber, and for the government it is incredibly important to get foreign labour to do so. They could not have the full package in the negotiations, so now they are taking it in the Chamber. It is so important for them to open up to lots of Asians, as they believe that we need plenty of foreigners. The Minister for Integration and the Minister for Employment have toned up with the need for more skilled labour from abroad wherever we could almost see them. Then we'll come to Wednesday. I sat at home and had a cup of coffee, and then it came out on News and elsewhere that 200 Filipino drivers lived in a slum in Padborg and worked for, now hold on, 15 kroner. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. Funny enough, the two ministers I mentioned before could not be seen at all that morning. So today we have Thursday, and I am standing here, and the government is making a proposal to save 1 billion. kr. In addition, there is an increase in the number of unemployed in Denmark. In a small week we have gone from the government to the fact that as much foreign labour as possible is certainly needed for everyone to see the consequences of this, i.e. in Padborg, where wage dumping is seen on a large scale, if we do not take care of the time and then until now when the price has to be paid by unemployed Danes. I'm just thinking, what happens tomorrow, because the week isn't over? What is happening in the context of the Finance Act? What Danish unemployed people are going to suffer now? I can't help thinking that. It could be a long week. Why do we have to open up to everyone else from abroad while at the same time saving the opportunity for Danes to get to work? I think it's ridiculous. I think it is obscene, and everyone can see that this is the wrong way to go. This will lead to even more wage dumping, and it will put our welfare system and also the Danish labour market model under enormous pressure, under higher pressure than it already is. We must then ensure that all Danes who can get to work. We're gonna get them trained and get them to work. It's good for them, it's good for their families, and it's good for society. Therefore, we must always focus on those who just need a little more help than others, a little more qualification, a little more support, and we must always believe that an extra effort helps. Rather help ordinary Danes who need help than just invite even more Asians to the country. But this week is a pretty good picture of what the government is thinking; where it wants to go with this society; and what result it can give if you don't think very well about. That is why I have to say, just as several people have done in the hearings: if the government really believes that all the labour we can find is needed, why will it save on activation once again? Why will they not do all they can to get ordinary Danes going and give them an extra chance? Why, in this case, should a proposal be made which means that there are 120,000 Danes who do not get the qualification they need? I simply do not understand it, and I believe that the government should sit down and go in the completely different direction. The direction in which the government is heading, I think, is devastating for our country, and that is why we are voting against it. We cannot stand seriously in here and say that we are now saving the opportunity for unemployed Danes to get to work while opening up plenty of Asians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130509	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130513	Thank you. The rapporteur may forget a few elements of this bill, because the draft law is designed to simplify the employment effort, which is today marked by the fact that there are municipalities looking more at the rate of reimbursement than they look at the measures that are most effective to get the unemployed going. So it is not about saving employment efforts; it is about using the tools in the municipalities that bring the unemployed as soon as possible into jobs. That is what the draft law is all about, and I understand that the Social Democrats are very opposed to it. I find this a little difficult to understand, that is why the Social Democratic Party today wants the municipalities to continue to speculate more about reimbursement rates than getting the unemployed more quickly in jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130607	There's a lot of things you don't understand. Nor do I understand that the rapporteurs are so concerned about saving in this area and that they are more concerned about getting foreign labour into the country. But I just have to look at the hearing answers. The National Association of Municipalities provides the answer. They say: "It will have the consequence that in future the municipalities will have to reduce the costs of the efforts of the unemployed and other beneficiaries by almost a billion. DKK KL himself points out that I have to say to the rapporteur that this is a saving, and it is the National Association of Municipalities that has to deliver on this. They point out that this is a saving. They also believe in the National Association of Municipalities, where there are also the Left and others, that it is not the right way to go in a business situation like this. So I just have to say that what you do now in the government is against common sense. Nobody understands. And I'm having a really hard time hearing the government explaining that, too. Because I would like to hear: why is it so important to open up all sorts of Asians and then save on ordinary Danes? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130706	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130708	No, I have to say that the Social Democrats say one when they are in government, because that is where they want to ensure that companies can get the highly skilled workforce they need, but when they are in opposition, the pipe gets a different sound. I just have to say that. But this is all about ensuring that the municipalities use the measures, the tools that have the most effective effect, and so we can make sure that they do so by ensuring that there are no different rates of reimbursement depending on which offer you offer to the individual citizen. That is what we need to get away from, and I understand that social democracy is so much against. They want municipalities to continue to sit and speculate on reimbursement rates instead of getting unemployed people into jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130752	What we are doing is simply saving a billion sentences. Then you can call it simplification and all sorts of other things, but you save a billion, period. There we clearly have a different picture, because there are those of us who will do everything we can to get ordinary Danes into work, and then there is the government that doesn't give a shit about it just want to open up Asians and others from abroad. That is the picture that is right now in Danish politics and I think that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130819	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130821	Thank you. Well, I would just like to thank the rapporteur for a very good speech and also for some good answers to Mr Tugendhat. Hans Andersen. That is what this is all about: saving a billion. This is not because I expect to have a real debate with the rapporteur, but I would just urge the rapporteur not to be so concerned about whether it is Asian. It might almost sound as if that is the problem, i.e. that it is some Asians that the government wants to import. Besides, it's not just Asians. After all, the government has appointed a large number of countries, all sorts of nationalities. But I think that if we are going to win this debate, we would be well advised not to turn it into a matter of skin colour and nationality, etc. What is the problem is that the government will import some labour that is not really needed and that the government cannot prove that it is needed. That only leads to one thing: pressure on wages and that part I think we agree on. Then I hope we can agree that we do not make it a question of what nationality that labour then has.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101130927	No, but I fully agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen. I'm just trying to draw a clear picture of the situation we're in. Well, sir. Finn Sørensen knows it himself. We have a host of companies that say they need manpower. They're not looking anywhere, they're not looking in the a-boxes, they're not looking anywhere. Then the government says on the one hand: Fine, then you'll have a lot of foreign labour. On the other hand, ordinary unemployed Danes who just want those jobs will be saved. That is the problem I am trying to draw up, because everyone knows it. But you could also listen to the questions I was asked by Mr. Hans Andersen, that the problem will not be recognised. Then I can use the word Asian and everything else. I just think that there is a huge problem and I do not think that we should have more foreign labour as long as we have Danish unemployed who can take these jobs if we get them up-qualified and help them get started. Anything else would be foolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131021	Thank you. I can confirm once again that we agree on this problem, and I am also pleased that we had a common front when we were sitting at the negotiating table. We stuck to it despite attempts by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to scare us in different ways and portray it as if we were opposed to helping companies. After all, she was the one who was opposed to helping companies, because we had together a large number of points in the government's presentation that we wanted to make an agreement on. So my only appeal is just this: let's just hold on to the fact that we don't have anything against foreigners... we can't agree on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131104	We must avoid wage dumping for all things in the world. We can see the result of it down in Padborg, and that is also what I said in my speech. It's just typical that it's very, very difficult to get the government to tell exactly why it wants more foreign labour. I haven't understood that yet. Well, then, sir, I'll try. Hans Andersen to make a billion savings sound as a rule simplistic. Well, I really think you're out in some weird attempts to explain this, but everyone can see that it's completely ridiculous.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131134	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131140	Thank you for that, President. This agreement is, as has been said, a matter of removing the possibility for municipalities to obtain reimbursements from these 50%. for indicative qualification, mentor support. In this context, it is also worth looking at how the municipalities have used these opportunities. The opportunities they have had have not always been as good, because we have seen that there are people who have come into some activation that is totally misleading. Only last month we have seen this example of mentor support, where there was a very large abuse with mentor support, for which the municipalities were reimbursed, even though the individual might only get 3-4 hours out of perhaps 50 hours. So the rest was actually something the municipality paid to the mentor, without the individual citizen benefiting from it. That's the kind of refund that's being removed. But I can also see that there is something in it that is good for the individual Member State where the reimbursement is removed. But that does not mean that the municipalities should not make the effort. What then lies in it is that the municipalities should be much more involved in directly helping the unemployed to get into jobs and give them the courses that can give them a job. So far, this indicative qualification has not done so. That is why, in the context of the simplification effort, we have also attached great importance to the fact that the municipalities must match the unemployed with the unemployed and then give them the courses that can provide a job. It can't help saying: Well, you can get into activation, and then we'll see how it goes, and then you can get back into activation, and then we'll see how it goes. The local authorities' job consultants should therefore be much more targeted to look at the individual and say: What can help you get into a job? What kind of courses do you need? And then, of course, the municipalities have to go in and give them the courses that can give a job and make agreements with the employer, and then the municipality gets reimbursement over the budget guarantee. How it works, I will not go into it further. But it just doesn't help to think that it's all well and good, just because the municipalities can get a refund, and then they'll do the job they're supposed to do. The municipalities talk a lot about wanting self-determination and wanting to make that effort themselves. But if it is the case that they only make the effort that the citizen should have if they receive a large refund, then that is not so good. After all, it is not so long ago that we made a refund change, in which we reduced the reimbursement in relation to the efforts that the municipalities must make for the various citizens in relation to benefits. But I think that since the municipalities want self-determination, they should be much more obscene to look at how we can get these citizens out. For the biggest gain for a municipality is precisely that they get their citizens into jobs. It may also be that there are some who need training first, get a vocational training perhaps, but it is about getting them on and off the system in which they are. It applies to benefit recipients, cash benefits recipients and integration benefit recipients alike, that you have to look at what they can do and what it takes to get them into a job, instead of saying: Well, you can get some guidance here, and then you can get some upskilling, by sending you into a job offer, in activation, which doesn't provide jobs, and then it's back. I have met many who, when they have been sent out into activation, after a few weeks are on the same again instead of having a more handheld effort that can provide a job. This is what we are aiming for in the Danish People's Party. That's what we believe in. That is also why, in the simplification effort, we were directly informed that municipalities should match the unemployed to the available jobs and that they should provide them with the courses that can provide a job. I am not quite as nervous that this should fail as the previous rapporteur was. I understand that, when you look at it, there is something about 6 weeks of self-chosen course if municipalities cannot receive reimbursement when they send benefit recipients on 6 weeks of self-chosen course. I've always wanted to do away with this six-week course of self-chosen training, so that they should have the courses that provide jobs. Whether it is 6, 7, 8, 10 or 12 weeks, they must have the courses that can provide a job. That's the way we're going. But in any case, we are closing down the approach that it is state money that goes to abuse mentor support. And that's one of the really positive things. But it is also positive that more attention will then be paid to the fact that what the municipalities are putting the unemployed in is something that can give them a job in a targeted way. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131654	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131659	Thank you. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted as a good and proper guy, and I actually very, very much agree with Mr. Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted on many points, but I just have to say that there is something that puzzles me here and that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has to make me smarter. I have looked at the answers from the Minister to Questions 88 and 89, and if you add the figures that are in it, it turns out that with this proposal, which the Danish People's Party has agreed to, there will in future be 120,000 who will not get an upskill and that there will be 60 000 who will have no activation whatsoever. So I have to ask: how can the Danish People's Party, which has boasted several times that they will do something for the little man and the one who has difficulty getting to work, that is to say the ordinary Dane, agree to this? I am simply very surprised by what I know about the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131753	Well, I'm not gonna be able to tell you if I can do that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is smarter about it. I'll leave that unsaid. It is not certain that he can learn more about it, and that is only positive if it goes in that direction. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen focuses on the system as it is today in terms of indicative qualification, which means that according to these figures they do not get the indicative qualification. But that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen forgets that in future the municipality will need to focus more on helping them find a job to give them the courses that can provide a job. And that's why there's a lot of them, like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions here that comes into a new system where they are more specifically helped to get jobs. This is certainly the task of the municipalities, and of course we will follow up on the fact that the municipalities are living up to it. So you can't say they get nothing at all, it's just another way they get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131856	No, that cannot be said, and that is not what I am doing, but the Minister is doing it in these answers. The Minister says that it has been calculated that some 120 000 people will not be trained; that somebody will be in business practice; and that there will then be 60 000 who will get nothing at all. It's kind of just something the minister says. That's why I have to ask that again. How can the Danish People's Party agree to this? I also hear that the rapporteur is now saying that you are not as nervous about this as you could hear I was. But what do you say to these people? Would you say, "Look, we've made an agreement that now you can't get any activation and qualification in the future, you're actually gonna have to take care of yourself?" What will the Danish People's Party say to the people, ordinary Danes, who just want a job, but now cannot get the help needed? What will they be told?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101131945	Well, it's a little too bad there's only 1⁄2 minutes to answer in that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that a question has been asked to the Minister about the question, and the Minister is faithfully answering the question: how many people cannot get an indicative qualification according to the old rules if you remove it here. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has not asked what it is like when it is removed according to the new rules, i.e. how many people can get upskilling in connection with the effort being made in the municipalities. You get answers that you ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132016	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132019	Thank you. We can quickly agree that it is a scandal that many municipalities have not managed what these mentoring costs were used for and that in reality they have simply put money in the pockets of some private actors. Unfortunately, there is far too much of that in the field of employment, but that can never be an argument for removing the money. Mentor support is a good idea, so it should be a requirement for the municipalities to ensure that the money is spent properly. So that's a lousy argument. Excuse me, sir. rapporteur. Then I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur has even read this bill and has taken note of what it is all about. It is as if the rapporteur thinks that there will now be more guidance, retraining and training for the unemployed. How is that supposed to happen when you remove 1 billion? kr., i.e. 1/6 of the amount spent on the employment effort of the municipalities? In other words, how could more skills, education and guidance come out of it? That is not what the Minister is calling for. He calls for and hopes that the municipalities will spend less money on this, because it is costly, and instead spend more energy on what is free for the municipalities and totally free for employers, namely company practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132138	I have to say that we probably don't read it the same way. Because what is involved here is not to say that it is hoped that the municipalities will not make an effort for the unemployed. It's another way they make the bet. Well, it's like sir. Finn Sørensen thinks that when the municipalities don't get a refund, they don't do anything; then all these people just sit at home and don't get any qualification, no help of any kind. That's actually it, sir. Finn Sørensen says that when you remove the 50% refund, the municipalities themselves will not pay, so that they will only do so if they are reimbursed. The municipalities do the same thing and can do the same work, because then they get money in addition to the budget guarantee. That's what's in this. It is just the money that is being sent out in reimbursement that disappears, but the municipalities still have to make an effort, and a municipality can still make money every time it gets a citizen into the job; the big gain for the municipalities is still gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132241	Would the rapporteur not agree that this proposal is about removing 1 billion? kr. from the employment efforts of the municipalities? That is what the proposal is about, and there is no hiding there. That is what the rapporteur has to deal with when the rapporteur is about to press the button at some point. Then I will just try to convince the rapporteur of what the government's intention is to do this. Apparently, he didn't understand. I quote what the Minister writes in a reply to question 411: • It estimated revenue of 1 billion. kr. the consequences of expected changes in behaviour in the municipalities. Municipalities are expected to make less use of costly activation processes as guidance and upgrading when municipalities bear more directly the costs of activation. At the same time, it is expected that the municipalities will make more use of business-oriented offers....It is clear, and business-oriented offers we all know what is. It is primarily business practice which is free of charge to the municipality and free of charge to employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132340	Well, then we're a little closer to the heart of the matter. Because if you look at what the municipalities have to do and can do, then it's still gone that the big gain for the municipalities is every time they get one in a job; get given a course that can give a job; get an agreement made with an employer. It is also proven that if you are in business practice, you have a greater chance of getting to work than being sent out into a hopeless activation that does not lead to anything. That's what we're gonna change with this. It may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen has such faith in the municipalities that he says: The municipalities will not do anything if they do not get it paid by the state. It is the self-determination of the municipalities that we have to look at there. It's gonna be great if we go after all the municipalities because they don't want to do anything in the job centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132425	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132433	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the elements of the draft law. As I have said, this bill translates an element of the agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives between the government and the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. And with the bill we do two things, as I said. Firstly, we are abolishing the state reimbursement for employment initiatives, as we know it today. We are creating a less detailed system in which the municipalities themselves have financial responsibility for a number of employment offers. Instead, the employment efforts of the municipalities in the future are supported by the block grant. Our ambition is that the proposal should create greater municipal incentives to organise the employment effort for the individual and to create a much less complicated system. This must mean that more people get the right help more quickly and probably and hopefully get more quickly into employment, not least because the municipalities are given greater freedom to plan the process for the citizen. At the same time, the economic incentive to choose one effort is removed over another. The aim of the proposal is therefore to ensure that more people have the right work to do. Should anything else be the case, we shall of course look into it. For the Left will not accept that citizens are parked on public breadwinners, because the municipality pays more attention to matters than the right help for the individual unemployed. The second part of the proposal can be very brief. This allows the Minister to establish the framework for EURES cooperation in relation to other actors as a result of the implementation of this Regulation. We want the Minister to be responsible for the detailed implementation of these requirements and rules, as this task is of a high administrative nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132641	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132646	Thank you. Now, even when the rapporteur asked me questions, the rapporteur makes it seem as if this is a simplification that it is to make it much, much easier for everyone, and it is almost a whole gift to society. I just have to ask the rapporteur something. The KL's consultation reply states that the consequence will be that in future municipalities will have to reduce the cost of the effort for the unemployed and other beneficiaries by almost 1 billion. kr. Can the rapporteur then confirm that this is 1 billion? kr., which has been saved and thus put in the growth agreement that has been made with the Danish People's Party, Radical Left and the government? Is it true that it is 1 billion? kr., have you taken from the activation effort and put into a growth agreement you made with these parties? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132734	Now we have to read, I think, the draft law carefully, and it says that it is the assessment that, in the future, there will be money, in other words, that less money will have to be spent on employment efforts as a result of changing behaviour. This behaviour comes out in the municipalities as a result of the fact that I expect them to use more company practice and less guidance and retraining as a result of the fact that company practice is the best tool to get the unemployed into work. And that is the behaviour that triggers the future spending of less money in the field of employment. That's the deal we made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132813	So that means choosing to put it differently, but the rapporteur said, after all, that less money must be spent through a change in behaviour, and that is of course the same as saving some money. You can also see the answer from the Minister, which is that then there are 60 000 who get no activation. So I just have to ask the rapporteur something: can the rapporteur not understand why ordinary people are wondering that the Left with one hand would like to have more foreign labour, while with the other hand saving ordinary Danes and their chances of getting a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132848	Now the rapporteur makes it sound very, very simple. I am delighted that with this bill we are ensuring that the municipalities use the tools that are most effective in getting the unemployed in jobs and that with this bill there are no rights for the employees who are affected as in no one. So this action is in this way helping to make the employment efforts of the municipalities more effective, and that is what is needed. We cannot be served by having more focus on the reimbursement rate than on getting the individual unemployed in jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132925	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101132927	Thank you. It is true that, with this bill, there is no change in the rules in the employment effort as to who should have which offers when it is the same. However, the rapporteur will have to confirm that it will come shortly when we have to deal with legislative proposals for simplifying employment efforts, for that is something that is being removed, for example. the offer of mentoring schemes in many contexts just to take a simple example. So we need to get this straight, that is to say, that the deterioration in rights will come later. First you take the money and then you cancel the rights afterwards. But what I really wanted to ask the rapporteur was why he keeps talking about the municipalities spending money on what works, and then he mentions company practices. Can the rapporteur then tell me how many people actually get into jobs after the end of business practice? How many get an ordinary job?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133019	There were two questions. It is true that a broad agreement has been reached on the simplification of the entire employment effort, which strengthens the employment effort in relation to the individual unemployed, but where there are also some elements in which we change the rights that individuals have to offer. I'd like to admit that, but it's just not part of this bill, and that's why I think it's kind of untimely to start linking it to a discussion about these changes that are going to take place exactly in relation to this bill. Then there's the business aspect. If the rapporteur can explain to me that indicative qualification is a more effective tool than business practice, then I would like to hear it. The figures I have show quite clearly that company practice is the most effective way to get unemployed in jobs. And I could stand here and be slightly in doubt, both in relation to the policy of Social Democracy and the policy of Enhedslisten, about what exactly it is about. Is it to keep the unemployed in unemployment as long as possible, or is it to use the tools that most effectively get the unemployed back into jobs? And the Left is preoccupied with doing the last thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133131	The latter can of course be answered very briefly: the most effective tool to get unemployed in jobs is to offer them an ordinary job. That's just pretty much never gonna happen. The unemployed are sent in all kinds of internships and courses that do not bring them closer to the labour market. I asked the rapporteur: what really is the effect in terms of jobs? How many get an ordinary job when they have been in company practice? But then I can inform the rapporteur on the basis of some figures that the Minister of Employment gave me in some answers at the end of 2017 that it is 11% that after the end of business practice comes into an ordinary job. How effective is that? But thank you for confirming that the rights thing we're gonna take after. It was the rapporteur who brought it into the debate himself, in other words, that we do not undermine any rights here. And then I had to remind you that this bill doesn't do that. It'll come next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133232	I think the questioner should stay too good to speak the job centres and the job consultants so far below the floorboards. There are plenty of unemployed people who are offered jobs in the job centres through the daily work of the job consultants. So it is not true that the unemployed are not offered jobs. Then you have even bought the tool that you can use business practices, and that is a very good method. It helps to get into a company instead of perhaps getting into an upskilling/guidance course that doesn't lead to anything. That is what the statistics show, and that is why I am pleased that the municipalities are actually using company practice. And I expect them to use it further in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133322	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133333	For the second time, since the Government of the Left was formed in 2015, the municipalities must now save heavily on their efforts towards the unemployed. At first it was approx. 400 million kr., which was saved on the municipality's mentoring efforts towards cash benefits recipients. Now it is a whole billion kroner that needs to be saved by cutting further government reimbursement to the employment efforts of the municipalities. The savings agreed on the governing parties and the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party in the so-called business and growth package from November 2017. What's it about? It is about the fact that again the unemployed have to pay tax relief to shareholders and, in addition, to facilitate taxes on nuts, alcoholic drinks and other goods. The government does not hide the fact that the savings must force the municipalities to spend less money on alleged costly activities such as guidance, education, qualification and mentoring. Instead, they must concentrate on the so-called business-oriented effort, which, according to the Minister, has a much better effect in terms of getting the unemployed into jobs. Or, to put it another way, the municipalities are being pressured by economic pressure to do less of what the unemployed need, namely help to get a job or to get started with an education. Instead, the municipalities must do more of what business owners need, namely provide cheap or free labour in the form of business practices or wage subsidies. I do not know how the Minister measures the job effect of the various forms of activation, but he will have the opportunity to explain that during the committee procedure. Until now, he has not been able to demonstrate any significant employment impact of enterprise-oriented action, quite the contrary. The figures I received from the Minister at the end of 2017 say exactly the opposite. It is true that wage subsidies jobs in the private sector have a positive effect. Yes, in fact, more than half of the people who are in payroll jobs are going to work subsequently, i.e. ordinary work. However, wage subsidy jobs represent by far the smallest part of the activation. I guess it's about 10 percent. of those activated who get the chance to get into a wage subsidy job in the private sector. The vast majority of people come into business practice, and here is a very poor job effect. This shows the figures I received from the Minister in 2017. Only approx. 11% I'm gonna get to work after that. We have looked at the figures for Looking at the big consumers of the company's showcase, namely Dansk Supermarked and Coop, then it looks even worse. Here only one in 30 gets a part - time job after the end of activation, and one in 25 gets a full - time job. The two supermarket chains each have so many activated in one year that it corresponds to approx. 1,200 full-time jobs or a saved wage cost per year. chain of approx. 360 million kr., and as I said, the figures are not very different for 2017. Overall, there were approx. 145,000 internships in private companies. This corresponds to approx. 14,000 full-time jobs. It could give a real job to two out of three job-ready cash benefits recipients and then even to collective pay ^ that says everything. With the company approach, the unemployed are forced to take an ordinary job away from themselves. The many activated in company practice in 2017 correspond to the fact that companies save their wages at a total value of just under 4.3 billion. kr. So enterprise practice is a pure jackpot machine for private business, a machine that will spit out even more gains to business owners once this bill has been implemented. For the unemployed there is no perspective in it, on the contrary. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133734	Thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, there are no brief comments, so thank you. Even if you're not standing? ) You've resigned, go ahead. The next speaker is Mrs Lene Foged as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133755	Thank you. I am a substitute for our rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl, who could not be here today. The proposal provides for better economic management of active employment efforts, with a view to better targeting. In the Liberal Alliance, we think this is the right way to go. Instead of forcing through all kinds of concrete efforts for municipalities, which carry out the task in a good way, the municipalities alone should be measured by whether they deliver the goods, namely to ensure that the municipal employment effort means that the unemployed get to work more quickly. If the effort is successful, the municipality itself should be the master of how the effort is to be combined. Technically, the proposal means that the reimbursement of mentor costs and the costs of activation of a number of beneficiaries will instead be transferred over as block grants. The municipality will therefore have the same economy as today, but will have better opportunities to organise the work. The Liberal Alliance can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101133912	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we have nothing against company practice as a starting point, but we would like there to be a job at the end. We see, for example. in the area of people with disabilities, that if companies make a qualification course with job guarantee, you can get almost anyone at work. Then it gives amazing results. But to do what we call chain smoking of company interns, as it works far too many places, and which, as I said before, only gets 11%. in work, we think is an exercise that is a little humiliating to a lot of unemployed and unemployed people who go into this with the expectation of getting a job if they deliver a real job. We also have nothing against good, strong, handheld municipal interventions, helping people who are ready for activity but who are not ready for work by helping them solve their biggest problem first: getting them on their feet, helping them get new teeth, getting to the psychologist, getting the relationship with the family back on their feet, bringing people back on their feet, so that in the long run you can start looking at a job goal. So when things are right, we are always involved in making agreements. However, I think that this proposal saves some of the support that is used to bring the unemployed to work. I recognise that there is a debureaucratisation that is wise, and I would also like to help stop the box thinking. But this is gonna cost 1 billion. kr. It costs a lot of the bets that are better than nothing, I almost said. It takes so much money out of the system that it also looks a little like a saving exercise. So it is too expensive; I do not think it is ambitious; and I do not think enough active efforts have been described. That's why I think this should be changed really, really much before the alternative will look at it with a little milder eyes. We shall not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134112	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Helveg Petersen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134127	Thank you. Well, the Radical Left is part of an agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives. The reimbursement rules in this bill are simplified and the incentive for municipalities is changed. It will be more business practice that will be used in the future for activation. It is a cheaper system and hopefully it is also a better system. As stated in the proposal: "The current detailed governance through state operating refunds and operating ceilings is replaced by a more simple model whereby the State reimbursement is abolished and the financial responsibility is fully entrusted to the municipalities. Instead, the municipalities are compensated jointly by the budget guarantee for their employment service expenditure. I think it is a very, very good idea to place the economic incentive and financial responsibility on those who are also responsible for the task. The agreement states that the municipalities must continue to comply with the requirements of the activation and employment effort. The budget improvement is contained in this In other words, as we move a financial commitment to the municipalities, they will also change their behaviour. The initiative contributes approx. 870 million kr. from 2019 to finance the agreement I mentioned earlier that we have entered into. All in all, we think that this is both a simpler system, a cheaper system and that we place responsibility in the right place so that radicals can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134252	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134257	Thank you. Everyone knows that the Radical Left is very much concerned with education, and we had to hear them thunder when we set up an educational ceiling which would then affect those who receive a little better education. But I have to ask the Radical Left: if you now care so much about education in general, why do you care more that there are 120,000 cash aid recipients here who do not receive training? Isn't that a good enough education, or what is it you think when you're radical? Because the Radical Left is helping to ensure that there are 120,000 cash aid recipients who do not receive an upskilling. How can you go into this when you care so much about education as the Radical Left does?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134341	Thank you. As can also be seen from what I have just read, here with the draft law we place responsibility for the municipalities and the financing of the municipalities. We expect that it will make them choose instruments other than what they have done today, and that will be one of them. That means that some of the courses that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen refers to, will not be used. All in all, it is a cheapening, but it is also because money and responsibility are going to lie together with the municipalities, and then they will choose some other instruments. In this way, of course, I am not against it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that education and training are the best protection against unemployment and for a good life. However, the educational provision which lapses here, we believe, will be replaced by a more direct and better response to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134428	They are being moved from upskilling to business practice. So exactly when we talk about cash aid recipients, do you radicals not think that upgrading is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134439	It is our intention with this proposal to create a better system in which the responsibility lies financially with the municipalities, which are also responsible for activation. This will together provide a new way of doing this in the municipalities. I believe and I must stress that this is not going to lead to poorer activation, but to better action against the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134501	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134504	I do not understand how it could lead to a better effort to save 1 billion. kr. This is one sixth, about, of the total resources for activation in the employment effort. That's a huge cut. I guess we can agree on that. So how could you do better after removing 1 billion? kr.? But then I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the Minister on the purpose of this bill. Now I will try to read from the answer to Question 412 where the Minister writes. The municipalities are expected to make less use of costly activation courses as guidance and qualification, including training schemes, when local authorities bear more directly the costs of activation. At the same time, it is expected that the municipalities will instead increase the use of business-oriented offers, which are cheaper and generally have better effects compared to getting unemployed in employment. • What is cheaper is company practice. After all, wage subsidies are not cheaper in the big box, because there you pay about half the wage in state subsidies to the employer. So how could it be better if the result of this were to live up to the Minister's intention that we should have more company practice? And the rapporteur of the Left confirmed that this is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134619	Thank you. Well, I agree with the Minister. I agree that municipalities will probably change behaviour when they themselves have financial responsibility and that they will choose some other instruments. I do not agree with the underlying comment from the questioner that the current instruments are automatically better than the instruments that the municipalities will then use. Because it is implicit in the questioner that what we are doing today should be better than what will then come. In fact, I do not agree with that. I think we will have just as good or better results from the fact that local authorities are free to choose tools here and to look more closely at what works and to a lesser extent lean on reimbursement schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134656	There are certainly many examples of the fact that local authorities' offers to the unemployed when it comes to counselling, retraining and training are not very good. We can quickly agree on that. But that is not what we are discussing here. We are discussing changing the behaviour of municipalities, so that they use very, very little guidance, qualification and training, and instead they use something in which there is no perspective for the unemployed, namely to act as free labour for the business owner. That is the choice to be made by the rapporteur, and if the rapporteur presses the green button and votes for it here, then the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have chosen the last one: the one for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134747-2	Thank you. I have to say that we do not necessarily see it as the poorest solution for the unemployed that we are giving the municipalities an incentive to get as many unemployed people into work as possible. Not in other words that company practice is in all circumstances a better solution than what has been used up to now. The opposite is not true either. We would like the municipalities to have as direct an incentive as possible to look at the unemployed getting into employment as soon as possible. That's the real intention of this bill. That at the same time it throws a saving of itself, I'm not sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134820	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101134826	Well, that's actually a great word. And yet a word that has so many misfortunes on its conscience. Well, simplification sounds so sympathetic. But in the case that we are going to talk about today, it is just a smokescreen of deterioration, quite specifically a billion. kr. the equivalent of 16%. of the operating costs of the municipalities in this area. Simplifying is being said, and that is the word that then finds a 30 per cent saving here. the activation effort, guidance, qualification and mentor support. Now it does not have to be taken for good goods, because SF says so, so let me try to quote the LO. You say that the LO is highly critical of the proposed amendment. During a period of increasing need for qualified labour, the LO finds it counterproductive to implement legislation leading to significantly less training and guidance for the unemployed in Denmark. • 3F complements and says: • Training is an effective activation tool. The consequence of limiting this offer may prove to be very short-sighted. All other things being equal, the public cost of daily allowance and activation will increase if the unemployed are maintained longer in the benefit system. We can also see that the Danish Social Advisor Association says, among other things, that they... is concerned that this will mean that the most vulnerable unemployed will not get the right offers in terms of getting back into the labour market. Then I very much like the fact that the Social Affairs Council just has a sarcastic tone in the way they respond, where they put it up with each other, that the government says that it has to organise the employment effort according to the needs of the individual, and then they write: "The Council does not believe that it is clear from the draft law how a saving of approx. 850 million kr. and a 30% decrease in activity. must benefit the citizen or result in efforts that better meet the needs of the individual. There's a sarcasm going down on it here. KL also says: "KL finds it very unfortunate that the conciliation parties behind the decision on business and entrepreneurship initiatives have chosen to reduce the funds for counselling and retraining by a total of 30%. At the moment we are seeing a lot of companies complaining that they lack labour in some industries in some places. And actually, they would rather do such a jumping act, where they can access a phone hand in hand with the government so that they can just call for cheap and disciplined people from abroad. But instead of that, we should get everyone who lives in this country going on a job. The last thing I want to say is that, if the legislative proposal were to be split up, we could be positive about the EURES regulation if, at the same time, the cashiers were to be opened up at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135127	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Erik Lund as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135133	Thank you. I must admit that when we started the debate here and that was Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who was on the platform, I had to go down and see if this was the right bill I was going to deal with. Because we have different views about how the bill is knitted together. After all, the legislative proposal we are about to deal with is a simplification of the economic governance of employment efforts, as well as an authorisation to lay down detailed rules for an access system for other players in Denmark as a result of the implementation of an EU regulation on European recruitment cooperation. After all, the municipalities of the country have been beset by the fact that the current rules are both complex and opaque, and we are doing something about that here. After all, in connection with the reimbursement reform in 2016, we have already given the municipalities incentives to get the unemployed back on the labour market as soon as possible. After all, that is what this is all about: the unemployed must return to the labour market. The draft law now provides for a further simplification of the economic governance of the employment effort, which concerns the cost of activation and mentors. In this way, we ensure that the municipalities focus their employment efforts even more on what makes sense for the individual and not on what is most economically advantageous for the municipality. It is true that there are some savings of perhaps not 1 billion. kr. kr. is close to the billion. But if, at the same time, we can achieve the same result and perhaps a better result, then it would be very good that we should also take such a saving. Because it is important to make it clear that the draft law does not change the rights and obligations of the individual, since citizens must continue to have the offers that can help them in jobs. It is now planned that the individual municipality will organise its own efforts according to the needs of the individual citizen and not according to what efforts will be reimbursed. And that's quite reasonable. The second part of the legislative proposal with regard to other market players we fully agree with. And that's why Conservatives support both elements of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135339	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135343	But I have to take the floor, sir. Erik Lund, when the rapporteur mentioned my name and asked whether we have actually understood the same thing and thought the same thing about the same matter. Actually, I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Erik Lund is a huge thank you, because the rapporteur is actually the only one who has said directly that this is a saving. No one else did. They wrapped it in that it was just money and the rapporteur says it is a saving. So I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for that. So I just have to ask again: Does Conservatives mean that it's quite okay. to save 1 billion. kr. to ordinary Danish cash aid recipients, while at the same time wanting to open up to foreign workers? Does the rapporteur think that is quite appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135436	I think it is wrong to link the two things together. In fact, we believe that the saving of the 870 million. kr. is quite reasonable when we can get the same result out of it. What is important to us is to get the unemployed into employment. In fact, we think that company practice is a very good way of getting the unemployed into employment. We have seen mentoring schemes and various activation projects, which may not have been very successful in some cases, and we therefore believe that this will at least produce the same result, and we hope that it will produce a better result.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135508	In other words, the rapporteur cannot understand at all that there is a Danish cash aid recipient out there right now who cannot get upskills, and is now taking care of his forehead and saying: 'I can't get help because you just want to get more foreign labour in?' The rapporteur does not understand at all that he thinks this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135526	No, no, I don't understand. I can hear that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen thinks this, but I am quite sure that the unemployed person who sits there and wants to work may be able to get a job placement instead and get to work along that path, and I think that is very sensible. I think that what we should focus a great deal on is getting the unemployed into work and not in activation projects or mentoring schemes, etc., which may not quite work as intended. So we don't agree here, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135554	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101135610	Let me start by thanking you for the many good comments that have fallen from the platform here today on this draft law, L 76. And let me also thank the parties that support the proposal in particular. After all, the draft law implements the part of the agreement on enterprise and entrepreneurship which is about simplifying the economic governance of employment efforts. In addition, the draft law provides for an authorisation to lay down detailed rules on an access system for other actors in Denmark as a result of the implementation of the EU regulation on European recruitment cooperation. However, if you start with the part that really raises a debate today, then that is the whole question of the economic management of employment efforts. We know that the municipalities find the current rules very complex and opaque. Repayment rates are different across target groups. There are various so-called operating ceilings for some expenditure, but not all. And I guess that's what Mr. Torsten Gejl touched upon in his speech, at least the complexity of the rules. With the reimbursement reform in 2016, we have already provided municipalities with clear incentives to get unemployed people back into the labour market as soon as possible. With this bill, there is further simplification in the economic governance of the employment effort, which concerns the cost of activation and mentoring. Simplification must help to ensure that the municipalities focus their employment efforts on what makes the most sense for the individual citizen, and not on what in the short term gives the most state cofinancing. I guess it's basically hard to be against it. The proposal removes the direct State reimbursement of the municipalities' costs of activation in favour of total compensation through the block subsidy. The proposal covers the municipalities' mentoring costs and operating costs for the activation of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, cash benefits, training grants, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, integration benefit not covered by the integration programme, and invalidity benefits. I think it is important to point out that the draft law does not alter the rights and obligations of citizens in the employment effort. Citizens must continue to have the active offers to help them in jobs. That is also what was emphasized by the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Bent Bøgsted, in his speech, and it is important to make it clear that it is still valid. Then it is also the case that if a municipality considers that guidance, qualification or the use of mentor is the right thing for the individual, then the municipality can and must continue to offer it. However, we ensure that the municipality does not opt for it on short-term economic grounds of direct reimbursement. As a result, the municipalities are given the incentive to organise their efforts in the future according to the needs of the individual citizen rather than steering by which efforts can potentially trigger reimbursement. I have no doubt that the freedom which the municipalities will now have, and not least with the agreement that we will deal with later in this parliamentary assembly, namely the Act on Active Employment, that is, the LAB agreement that was concluded here on 23 August, will give the municipalities much more muscle, but also that we in the Danish Parliament, the Ministry of Employment, must make sure that the development takes place. Of course, it also means keeping a close eye on the efforts of the municipalities, as I think has been the case in the time I have had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment. The second part of the proposal is a much smaller part, and I would like to say that with the proposed authorisation, detailed rules can be laid down for an access system in Denmark for the inclusion of other actors in the European recruitment network EURES, including that it is the Agency for the Labour Market and Recruitment, which is the authority which approves the other actors. The intention to provide other actors with access to the European recruitment network, EURES, is among other things: to increase the volume of the number of vacancies exchanged and CVs on the European job placement portal, the EURES portal. This can help create greater transparency and mobility in the European labour market, and the EURES network has so far been made up of European public employment services and the Commission. But summa summarum: I look forward to the committee reading. There is no doubt that this deserves to be dealt with in depth by the committee. This is a comprehensive change which takes place but which, of course, is based on ensuring that a more intelligent way is made to ensure that the municipalities use their funds appropriately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140058	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140103	The minister says it doesn't change the rights of these people, but it does change their chances of getting to work. And now the minister himself said that the municipalities are in agreement and would like to do so here, and then I tried to look at the consultation answer from the Municipal Association, which is the voice of the municipalities, and they say: "At a time of initial labour shortages, savings will reduce the possibilities for municipalities to ensure the necessary upgrading of the unemployed, as upgrading offers are typically relatively more expensive compared to other types of offers. KL does not believe that this is the right way to go in the current economic situation. In other words, the Minister is well aware that the municipalities do not agree with the minister on this. They do not believe that it is the right way to go, now that we have a shortage of labour, to save the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140156	So, I think it is a very strange way in many ways that KL expresses their position, because KL knows very well that there is a great deal of variation between municipalities, and Mr KL knows that. Leif Lahn Jensen, at least after countless meetings with me. And you can see that if the municipalities are making a plan that is based on more than just thinking one day ahead and that is both holistic and based on the citizen, then it is always a good idea to help the citizen into the labour market or into education. It is both for the citizen himself, it is also for the economy of the municipalities, and it is for that matter also for the companies that lack labour. And that is why it has to be said that the truth is that there is a need for municipalities to take on much more responsibility now, and we can see that, fortunately, more and more municipalities are doing so. And when they take on that responsibility, there is, in fact, also a lot of money to collect for the municipal coffers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140301	Well now it is not the individual municipality that we ask, now it is the National Association of Municipalities that should look at the superiors. The second, I can totally agree with, but that is the overall point. And that is why I have to ask again: when there are more people saying that this weakens the ability of the unemployed to get to work, then you simply have to do it again. How does the Minister actually feel about some unemployed people now sitting out there thinking: Well, now it becomes harder for me as a regular Danish cash aid recipient to get jobs, but the Minister and the government want more from abroad, but I am not getting a chance. Can't the Minister understand that they're thinking that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140331	I hope that those who sit and follow the debate here know that as a minister I am concerned to ensure that we look at whether there is progression in the municipalities, whether they make a difference. For the truth is that today there are a large number of municipalities, in fact, with the current rules that do not comply with the law, either in relation to benefit recipients or cash benefits recipients. You have to look at whether the offers you then make make sense. And I have no doubt that we need to have a more focused political position, including for local city councils, in order to find out how to help people more out in the labour market. And there is a big difference between what works and how the effort has been prioritised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140413	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140418	Thank you. First of all, we need the Minister to confirm that this bill is about saving in the first place 870 million. kr., some money that has already been spent on tax cuts, and in the slightly longer term 1 billion. kr. a year. That is the first question. I would just like the Minister to confirm this because some people want to make it as if the municipalities have the same money they have always had, they just come from somewhere else and come down here. Let's get this straight. The second is that the minister says that this is about the municipality doing what is best for the individual citizen. That's just not the principle of this bill. The draft law clearly has a declared intention that municipalities should change behaviour so that they do not spend money on something that is a little more expensive than anything else, namely education, guidance and qualification. It is explicitly stated in countless replies from the Minister that that is what is intended. They need to spend money on what is cheap and preferably free of charge for the municipality, namely company practice, and there is no perspective in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140527	Yeah, I actually think that sir. Hans Andersen from the Left gave a very good answer to this question. Of course, sir. Hans Andersen is not a minister yet, so I can therefore also give a similar answer and say what Mr. Finn Sørensen knows very well that it will be more expensive for municipalities to use the services that have the worst employment effects. This is also why we expect the municipalities to turn up the company-oriented efforts, which typically have good effects and which are also cheaper. That's why I'm not buying the argument Mr. Finn Sørensen is very concerned about this, because the truth is that the municipalities still have the opportunity to make the effort that they consider best. Mr. Finn Sørensen quite well too. And we can see that in the municipalities where an investment strategy is being drawn up, where it is actually also a priority to make a greater degree of hand-held action, it also has an effect. Then you can ask if it's great science. No, it's kind of just common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140621	Of course, the municipalities have the opportunity to spend money on everything the Minister does not want them to spend money on, they do, if they can find the money. But at the same time the Minister is in a government that is doing everything it can to ensure that the municipalities do not have the economy needed to meet the growing challenges that come from the so-called demographic trait, i.e. that there will be more children and more elderly people and more dependent elderly people. So the choice the minister is going to put the municipalities in front of with this bill is that they have to choose from, whether they want to spend money on the unemployed that they no longer get from the state, or whether they want to spend money on nursing homes or on day care institutions. And since it is a fact that this government is driving the municipalities in a very tight financial straitjacket, that is what will happen, namely that in many cases the municipalities will refrain from taking the offers and giving the offers to the unemployed who can really help them, namely in the form of some upgrading and some training. That is what this is all about, and this is actually very clear from the Minister's replies to the various questions we have been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140734	After all, we do not have a discussion like this today about the total economy of the municipalities. I also think I will leave it to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to answer the question which Mr. Finn Sørensen asks whether it is a fact that this government is running the municipalities hard. It is not harder than the previous government, as Mr. Finn Sørensen added voices. I think that deserves to be made clear in the open as well. Then I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen should be pleased that we have record employment. It's going really, really well in Denmark. Never have there been so many people in jobs. That is why we must also say that the truth is that it is in the present situation that we must make every effort to ensure that even more people come along, that more people become part of the working community. And there I also have the expectation that, when the municipalities can now see that employment is increasing and that the number of transfer income is falling, there is even better chance of investing in those areas where additional resources are needed, and that is also in the area of employment, if you consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140830	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140846	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Leif Lahn Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101140908	Thank you. I think we have a very good system in Denmark with quite a lot of benefits where you can get help if, for a period of time, you are either ill, unemployed or in some way cannot take care of a job or get a job. It is a good safety net and it is a safety net that we must and must preserve, because, as I said, we all need it at some point. But I have to say that there are also stingy vessels in this net. There are people who do some things that make me incredibly angry. When I hear about all these bandits running around in the gangs and making all of us insecure in everyday life, people who feed themselves through hashish and drug trafficking and other financial crime, while they get public services, I get angry, yes, I almost get angry. We shouldn't put up with that and we shouldn't put up with it and stop it. That is why I think it is a small fine proposal that we are now giving them a quarantine of three years, where they can receive maximum benefits at the level of integration and where they cannot receive, among other things, benefits. cash benefits and early retirement. But when I say that this is a small fine proposal, it's because these gang members get money from everyone else who happily goes to work every day, who pays their taxes and who just wants to keep a system with the safety net we have. Therefore, we would prefer that if you're still a member of these gangs, you shouldn't have a penny of the public. Therefore, we will try to go further than the government in examining the bill and see if we can stop all support for them. Then, of course, there are some disputes in this, I am aware of that. What if they're part of an exit program and no longer part of a gang? So what are we gonna do, and then they're still gonna be in quarantine? With these words, with these concerns, we shall vote in favour of the proposal, but we shall ask in committee for the possibility of removing cash aid from them and going further than the government. At the same time, we will also look at the problem of those who are leaving the gangs, i.e. how we can tackle this and how we can possibly help them on the right path. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141132	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141135	Thank you. For the sake of all those who are listening here, it may be necessary to clarify: this bill is about people who have been convicted of gang crime and who have endured their sentence, however long it may be, i.e. if there is a prison sentence or other detention; 2-3-4 years, I do not know how much one gets for it on top of that sentence, and after the punishment has been carried out, must have a 3-year period, where there are a number of benefits that are not even entitled, and a number of benefits that are reduced to the level of integration benefit. That's what this bill is about. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur going to achieve by giving these people a double penalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141227	We also have to remember that that's also why I said that there were those disputes... that if you're getting out of these gangs, we have a problem we need to look at. But in the case that they're still in these gangs and they come out and feed themselves on hashish and drug trafficking and other financial crime, that's still doing it, it's not gonna work. I simply do not want to be involved in this; they must have a public service. That simply cannot be done. And I cannot defend the fact that we have to maintain a system where we have to give money for such a thing. I can't do that. And that's why I just want to say, if this helps get them out, it's fine. But they don't need a penny.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141306	This bill is not about the fact that if they are still a member of a gang and so on. It is about people who have endured a punishment that they have been given in the courts, having to have a double financial penalty on top of that. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur going to achieve about this? My assessment is that we will achieve something that is absolutely, absolutely sure, and that is that the people's incentive to withdraw from the gang and get out of crime is reduced to virtually zero because they are down to a benefit that the rapporteur himself has stood in this Chamber and called a poverty benefit, which, of course, has the consequence that people become poorer by it. That will, of course, be the consequence of this. Will the rapporteur please consider whether it is now so healthy to run after the Danish People's Party for fear of being reproached by them; that we agree to something that will be absolutely devastating to the possibilities of getting those people out of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141409	That is why I also said in my rapporteur's speech: if these people are on their way out of the gangs, what do we do? If they're part of any exit program, then I should also ask the Minister what do we do? But if they're still in these gangs, if they're still feeding on that stuff, then I don't give a shit. Then they don't need a penny. Why, though, should we give such people a bent penny when they do not really care about other people and make a living on it? I just think that should stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141436	There are no more questions, so thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141451	Thank you for that, President. The law here came into being in connection with previous legislation on foreign fighters, where you can punish Syrian warriors for committing illegal acts, even if they are subject to unconditional punishment. This means that gang criminals who have worked with firearms in conflict will have a 3-year period after punishment. In this context, it is also important to look at the fact that the 3-year period in question means that they cannot earn cash benefits and educational assistance after punishment. In the Danish People's Party we think it is fair to have a spanking when you go around using guns to settle conflicts with. And then there's this thing about how you can ask if you hit them unwittingly, in case they say that we have regretted it. But I just think these gang criminals should think about it before they start running around shooting around. If they run around bothering people and shooting around, where there are also people who can unwittingly get hurt, then we think they deserve the punishment that they can get. Does this mean that they do not need that help afterwards, when they get out of prison, in other words, that they are going for a quarantine period? Yeah, that's fair enough. We have the clear position that people need to think before they start joining criminal gangs. And if they can commit crimes with firearms, they must also be answerable in the hour of reckoning when they are caught and punished. It can't help that they should be put on with velvet gloves, that is, that they say that well it's also a pity for you, and we're gonna help you move on, and it's unfair, but now we're gonna take care of you, and we're gonna give you a performance. But then the Danish taxpayer is ridiculous, that is, if you give the criminals a service. So we support this proposal and look forward to the discussion. Perhaps there may be some inappropriateness in that, which Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has said this is where if they are on their way out of the gang environment and are part of an exit plan from there. But that is, of course, after they have endured the punishment. Because if they're part of an exit plan before they get a penalty, then they haven't been given unconditional prison, and they're not covered by this quarantine. Only those who have been given an unconditional prison sentence. I think they should think a little bit before they start running around playing robbers and soldiers with a gun that's loaded, and then suddenly it's not a game anymore, but then it's really serious when they run around with a sharp gun and shoot away to the right and left and hit random people. If they need to react that way, they could join some club where they run around with a splatter gun and play a little instead. But this crime and that way we can't stand by and just accept, so they'll have to put up with the punishment they're now being charged with. The Danish People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141842	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141846	Thank you. But then the rapporteur says quite plainly what this bill is about. You are not satisfied with the punishment they receive in the courts. They're gonna have to get a financial penalty on top of that. It is even a penalty in which we do not have the opportunity to make a concrete assessment, as we do in the courts. When a sentence is to be pronounced, you look at the person, make a concrete assessment and measure the penalty accordingly. Such a general principle of law is completely gone now. Now we are punishing a whole group of people who even served their time. I mean, what kind of attitude is that about the rule of law that's sticking its head out here? I would like to hear the rapporteur comment on this and then I will take the second question afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141934	Well, I don't understand why, sir. Finn Sørensen wants to defend gang criminals who can run around shooting at people, so why it's okay for them to be spared. So I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen should encourage them to think before they join these gangs, and before they get a gun or whatever they're gonna be shooting around with. I don't have anything left for somebody running around shooting at me on the street, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101141959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142001	Neither has the Enhedslisten, nor have I expressed it in any way. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what opinions are behind such a draft law and its support for it in terms of the rule of law. The rapporteur will not answer that question. So I have to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe that it promotes the possibility of getting gang criminals out of gangs, that they are made poorer, or that it increases the possibility of staying in criminal environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142031	Well, to punish them financially it's probably wrong, but I have such a suspicion that Enhedslisten would like to reward them. If you get out of here, you're gonna get a big sum of money, and we're sure you're gonna get out of this gang criminal environment. I'll give you x number of crowns, and I'm sure you'll improve. That is the system we are in favour of. But we just have an attitude that we don't want to put up with running around shooting at people on the streets. And then you have to take that punishment, and if the penalty is too small and Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks this is an extra punishment, so be it. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142111	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142120	Thank you for that and thank you to the previous rapporteurs. Gang crime poses a major threat to Danish citizens and to Danish society; we have seen this with a sad and long series of serious cases. We must not accept this, and in the Left we will take active action to ensure to gang criminals that it has tangible consequences when setting aside the standards and rules of society and, above all, the security and security of innocent people. Therefore, the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, has among other things. an agreement on a new gang package to stem biker and gang crime. And with this proposal, we add another initiative on the list, so that gang crime also has consequences for your public service. In the past, gang criminals on an equal footing with ordinary Danes have been able to receive public support; they have been able to create insecurity and chaos in the streets one day while raising cash assistance the other. That is simply not fair. We believe it is perfectly reasonable to introduce a quarantine period in which convicted gang criminals are excluded from receiving a number of benefits for three years. And we can then spend much better on other measures that will benefit the Danes and Danish society in general. We must send out a clear signal that under no circumstances will we tolerate criminals with one hand receiving public support paid by taxpayers and with the other hand perhaps committing gang crimes. That is why the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is voting in favour of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142309	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Well, someone came here. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142316	Thank you. I drove a little autopilot. I thought the President should know that I would ask Hans Andersen questions. I'm sorry! I just have this question: why is it only gang criminals and Syrians who should have deprived or reduced their services when they have been convicted of something?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142337	Now, in the conciliation circle, we have found that for the first time syrians, but also now gang criminals, there must be a consequence of their actions. They are so harsh in relation to the society we have built up that there must therefore be a tangible consequence. And now I have been listening to the rapporteur's questions to the previous rapporteurs who have been on the platform, and I have to say that I am astonished that Enhedslisten has, as I must understand it, not yet heard the rapporteur's speech. So, I simply do not understand that the Enhedslisten is opposed to there being a noticeable consequence of the actions taken as a gang criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142427	We are by no means opposed to that. But we leave that to the civil courts; that is what we have the judicial system to do. In the Folketing we make the laws, and then we leave the courts to decide what punishment the citizens who cannot comply with the laws we make should have. That is the normal way to approach it in a Danish democracy. However, this is the way the rapporteur and the others who support this proposal are moving away from it. I asked the question: if there is to be a noticeable consequence of violent and reprehensible acts such as walking and shooting in the streets or to participate on the wrong side of a war illegally, why should there not be the same consequence for violent criminals, for rapists, for some who empty the treasury of billions of dollars? Why is it precisely Syrienskriger and gang criminals who must have a double sentence measured by the Folketing? Or is it the case that the government and the rapporteur in the bag have a number of other groups which must also be poored and which must also either have deprived their entitlement to benefits or have reduced the benefits they receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142543	Now it is the case that you are guaranteed the right to a benefit, and that is the integration benefit, according to the constitution. So it's not like we take people off a performance completely. But we're saying that this is a reasonable level, that is, the integration benefit and thus not the cash benefits anymore. And then I guess it's about us thinking that as a gang criminal one has broken so extraordinaryly with the moral standards we have in Denmark that we find that quarantine is a fair consequence of the actions that have been carried out in Danish society. In other words, shooting around in the streets and settling disputes in this way, we simply want to distance ourselves sharply, and this is one of the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142632	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101142644	Thank you. I do not want to spend precious speaking time saying something that everyone knows and which goes without saying, namely that the Enhedslisten of course believes that it is deeply reprehensible to run around and shoot in the streets and that it should be punished, and we have the penal code for that. But what is going on here is that the government and a majority in the Folketing are taking another step towards a fight with fundamental Danish values and with a fundamental principle that the Folketing makes the laws, but leaves it to the courts to decide what punishment the citizens should have. In June 2017, the Danish Parliament agreed that people who have otherwise been punished should be deprived of all or part of the right to receive transfer income for a period of three years. It was the law of the so-called foreign warriors. This law is now being used as a justification for extending the group of citizens who, in addition to being punished, must be reduced or totally deprived of the right to receive transfer income for three years. A number of benefits are reduced to the same rates as the integration benefit, which is the lowest possible social benefit in Denmark, perhaps not the lowest possible, but so far the lowest social benefit in Denmark. I'm sure some people are thinking about bringing it down even further. It is a service which a majority in the Folketing apparently believes can be lived for at a decent level, but which we in the opposition have agreed to call a poverty benefit at least until now. For a single resident, the integration benefit is barely DKK 6,000. per month before tax, i.e. for a person over 30 years of age, for a single parent it is almost DKr 12,000. per month, and for a married provider it is about 8,000 kroner. per month. For the group we are talking about here, the following benefits will be reduced to these low amounts: training aid, cash assistance, resource development benefit, unemployment benefit, public pension, early retirement and flexible pay subsidies. In order to add spot to injury, the three-year quarantine cannot be included in the residence requirement to be met for cash benefits. That requirement is per. 1 January, that you must have been in Denmark for 9 years out of 10 years plus a requirement for 21⁄2 years of work. So the citizens in question are at risk of having to live for up to 12 years for benefits that we in the opposition otherwise agree to call a poverty benefit a benefit which was, moreover, reduced by 3%. per July 1st this year. But apparently that's not punishment enough for the government. During the three-year quarantine period, the sentenced persons will completely lose their entitlement to unemployment benefit, holiday allowance, early retirement, maternity and sickness benefits and flexible allowances. This bill is a serious breach of democratic fundamentals. Normally here in society, when a convicted person has endured his or her sentence, there is a clean table in relation to society. Then you have to have a chance to start over. We also usually agree that we should leave it to the courts to decide what punishment the citizen should have. We usually boast of being a community of law where there is equality before the law, but now the Danish Parliament takes the right to impose in advance on certain groups of citizens an extra financial penalty which, moreover, the citizen has no opportunity to defend himself against for the simple reason that the punishment is measured by the Folketing and not by a court of law. It's a scary piece of shit going on here. The government is not even hiding that it is precisely to punish those concerned. That is the only reason given in the draft law, that is to say to punish those who have served a prison sentence as if it were not enough punishment. The draft law is, in any case, characterised by an arrogance of ugly power. You do not even want to tell us how many people are expected to be affected by it, and you do not want to answer the factual objections in the hearings. Here they write that if you want to help people out of gang crime, this is the wrong way to do it. It is clear that they will only become even more dependent on the gang and on crime simply in order to survive. Nor do we want to see the penalty imposed on the whole family, including the children. So what exactly is the government and a majority in the Folketing doing here? First it was the Syrian warriors, now it's the gang criminals. Who will be the next group of citizens to be sentenced by the courts, on top of a long sentence, to reduced or deprived of the right to transfer income? Is it really part of an overall strategy in which, under the guise of wanting to hit specific, rightly criticized groups in society, increasing sections of the population will be impoverished so that more tax relief can be provided for the best-off and even greater pressure on wage developments in this country? I have no doubt that is what this is all about. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143125	No one has wanted to ask for brief comments, so we thank Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen and proceed in the series of speeches to Mrs. Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143143	I think it offends most people's perception of justice when you see bikers and other gang criminals abuse our performance system over and over again. In the Liberal Alliance, we think we should go as far as the fight against this abuse that the Constitution allows. It is reasonable and reasonable to limit the possibility of receiving benefits for a group of people who have resigned so seriously from the surrounding society. You cannot both undermine society and then expect understanding and generosity when you stand with your hat in your hand. We think this is unproblematic in terms of legal certainty, and that is why we are happy to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143228	No one had any comments on that. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. René Gade. The alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143236	I've just taken over the bill from my colleague, sir. Torsten Gejl a moment ago, and that is why I shall be giving a rather brief rapporteur's speech. But as a starting point, I have been handed down that we would really like the bill to be divided into two. Because there is an element of active social policy which guarantees citizens' rights in relation to payments that we would like to support from the outset. That should be two thirds of the proposal. Then a significant part has also been discussed here, namely about the legal position of former gang members. Yeah, we're against that. My colleagues and I were just having a little talk down there about whether gang crime is worse than so many other forms of crime. It will be a difficult judgment, and I very much agree with the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten, since we have a legal system to assess when it comes to it. So, immediately, we are opposed to that part and to what we have put together as the active social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143337	Nor did it give rise to brief comments. Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143350	Thank you. In preparing this parliamentary procedure, I read the hearings to L 77, and I realized that the LO, the National Organisation in Denmark, had been kind enough to write my rapporteur's speech. So now I would like to read a little from their hearing answer: the LO in Denmark has stated that the bill is an expression of the fact that the sentence is now officially covering employment and social policy, which is a slip in the welfare system. The LO also states that the overall view of the organisation is that social benefits should not be part of the penalty for gang members or other convicted persons and groups. In this context, the LO states that social services are social security networks and part of the welfare society, which should not be undermined by introducing reduced benefits for ex-punished persons. The LO states that a person who has received a conviction and has endured his or her sentence must be treated on an equal footing with other persons seeking or receiving social benefits. In addition, the LO states that if it is the government's aim to further punish gang members, this must be done through the criminal code and not by reducing social benefits. I fully agree with that, and it is precisely with the reasons that the Radical Left will not support the bill. There are other things in the bill that I am not very happy about. In its reply to the hearing, the Association for Legal Affairs stated that it should be considered whether the length of the quarantine should be adapted to the length of the sentence, so that it does not always automatically involve a three-year quarantine. If you have violated the gang code, you will have a three-year quarantine, whether the crime has been large or small. To that end, in the answer to the question, the Minister for Employment says that the quarantine system is being introduced in order to send out a signal that gang crime is not acceptable to society, regardless of what crime is committed as part of gang relations. Apart from the purely fundamental statement that I do not believe that we should use the benefit system as part of our criminal code, I do not believe that we should give a blank-card penalty where we do not look at the crime when imposing the penalty. So for a lot of reasons, I think this bill is wrong. We will, of course, vote against it. I hope this is something we can one day roll backwards. I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there is no particular objective justification for taking out exactly two categories of crime and saying that these very ones should trigger a punishment that is outside the criminal code and also over there, for example. the daily allowance system. So no thanks from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143619	Nor did it give rise to questions for the rapporteur. We'll thank you, and we'll move on to mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101143629	After all, it is a good day for me to be both rapporteur for employment and for the area of justice. Let me say first: what is it that some rapporteurs are trying to make this a competition for who can say the most ugly about the gangs, who puts the most distance from them? That doesn't make any sense. I have not heard that there is any difference at all between how much we abhor the gangs and their crime, so don't try to take some easy points by derailing the debate, as if you're in favour of this bill, you really, really don't like the gangs. The rest of us may in fact be the ones who are watching over them. Stop being manipulated like that! I am just as hardcore in fighting the gangs as I am hardcore in defending our legal certainty and equality before the law. If you have endured your punishment here in our society, the tablet is to a certain extent washed clean. This is a double sentence against certain criminals. What about the criminals who lead their way in these weeks, the bandits in the suites, the bank gangs and their hangarounds who have robbed society of values, shouldn't they also have a quarantine and a double penalty? What about other serious criminals, murderers, rapists, not to say paedophiles? No, they should be allowed to have public services, or what is the difference? And this isn't about some people here more or less enjoying these different types of paedophiles or rapists or murderers or gangs. It is about a basic principle of the rule of law about equality before the law. Then there is also the fact that when we talk about people who have endured their punishment, we have an idea that they are, like, going back on course. In fact, we have an idea that, after punishment, you can get some former criminals running into a crime-free life. Now we're doing the smartest thing by taking the money from them? Is there anyone here who can figure out how they might get for the day and the road? And, of course, there is a fundamental difference between whether we fight against gang members' opportunities to receive benefits while they are committing crime and while they are gang members, because then we have to fight it hard, and this is where we are talking about taking benefits from people after they have endured their punishment. That is why it is no LO that I too hope that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will listen very carefully to the fact that the draft law is an expression of the fact that the punishment now officially includes employment and social policy, which is a slippage in the welfare system. We can see that the Crime Prevention Council has stated that the proposed regime risks maintaining the criminal group. The FTF writes that the organisation is opposed to the proposal and would like to stress that the right to benefit must follow the rules laid down by the unemployment insurance law. We can take the LO, which has stated that the three-year quarantine regime is on the verge of human rights, because there is discrimination against those who have endured their punishment, and the LO does not believe that there are factual reasons for this discrimination. This bill is a grotesque breach of a fundamental principle of the rule of law on equality before the law, and it even makes the situation worse for the people who you think you could prevent crime. There's one answer to this bill, and that's to vote no and shake your head at the same time. I can see, however, that there is one element in the bill, so if the bill could be split, we can vote in favour of what has to do with the fact that people who receive help for housing deposits and move out later than 3 years after the granting of the aid should not keep a grant paid, on the grounds that the municipality's refund claims have lapsed. I mean, if the bill gets split up, we can vote for that part of it. The rest get a resounding no from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144035	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144040	President. - I call the rapporteur. Karsten Hønge said that SF is as hardcore compared to gang criminals as the rest of us are. Sir. Karsten Hønge also said that this is an expression of a double sentence. These are two opposing points of view. I mean, if this is an expression of the fact that that punishment is tougher than sir... Karsten Hønge and SF want, is Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF the more soft in terms of gang crime than the government and the parties that support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144120	It's really quirky enough to put it together that way. The question here is that if you are to have such a double sentence, you must also have one for all other criminal groups, otherwise it does not make sense, or you could take out groups other than gang criminals. I wonder how sir. Joachim B. Olsen will explain why a gang member should not be able to receive public services beyond the level of integration, whereas the paedophile can go and get benefits and cash benefits. I wonder what the explanation would be for the two groups and why one should be treated better, namely the paedophile, than the one who has been a member of a gang. But this is simply a basic principle of the rule of law, in which I am frankly surprised at how liberally-minded people, like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is, can accept such a distortion of our rule of law. I think that is frankly contrary to what is under the liberal approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144215	There is a follow-up question for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144217	Thank you for that, President. If it's such an invitation that we expand it here, so that it's also going to apply, for example. Pedophiles or murderers or others, I just want to say that we are completely open to it. We can agree that this should apply to more people, who have thus broken a basic social contract, who have committed perilous crime and organised crime. Well, in our optics, we don't see why they should have access to services afterwards. So we are all in favour of that, and it sounds as if it could also be part of SF to create equality, because SF is just as hard on crime as the rest of us, we have to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144304	No, because sir. Joachim B. Olsen to my astonishment along with other liberal-minded people has gone down a dead end here because it is without end what we can find. Now we can find some paedophiles or murderers or rapists, or I could suggest people who have cheated society have done what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that he has broken the basic social contract by committing crime or by cheating society for money, tax payments and everything else. That means that it will be endless how many people will be punished twice, so why not stick to the rule of law. The courts are doing very well here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144337	There is no further request for short comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144346	Thank you. In the debate we are having here, I am not hearing what several rapporteurs are hearing. I do not hear that we disagree that gang crime is deeply unacceptable; I think that everyone here has put a lot of emphasis on it. Where we disagree is whether or not there should be the punishment that we have here and that is quite fair. I simply do not think that we should accept that a small hard-boiled core controls the streets and creates fear among ordinary citizens. With this bill, you could say that we are introducing a supplementary sentence and peace with it. We are introducing a three-year quarantine system, which means that a person convicted of serious gang crime will be excluded from a number of benefits for three years after punishment. We in the Conservatives think this is quite reasonable. This means that a convicted person who has endured his or her sentence and is on cash benefits or early retirement may receive a benefit equivalent to the integration benefit for a period of three years. We're totally, totally on board with that. What we sometimes think is: why should a gang criminal who has endured his sentence have cash benefits or early retirement when he gets out? Why don't you go work and earn your own money? Perhaps that is what the whole thing should be about: earning your own money and not by crime, at least not by crime. It is a bit like you, once you've endured your punishment, must be against our society, and with this bill I think we are giving a very good signal that we will not accept the ruthless behavior of many gang members. That is why Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144533	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144536	I would like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely even for starting his speech by saying: I can hear that we do not disagree that it is totally unacceptable to make the type of gang crime for which you can get these severe penalties. Thank you for that. It's a good basis for a discussion. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what, in the rapporteur's view, is the purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144604	Well, the purpose is to give a signal that we don't want to do this. The aim may also be that, before entering into such a gang crime and before using firearms etc., you might think twice and say: I am perhaps on cash aid now; I am perhaps on early retirement, so I may have to stay away from this, because I know that this will have some additional consequences; that, in addition to the punishment given to me by the courts, it will also have the consequence that I am going down to an even lower benefit and may even get even harder to get a real job, i.e. because you are a convicted criminal. So I think there are good intentions in this. It gives a very good signal that you should stay away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144644	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144646	If it worked in the way the rapporteur imagines it could work, then perhaps I could follow the rapporteur, but that is just not how it works. For there are already severe consequences and harsh, severe penalties for committing the actions we are talking about here. And it does not seem to prevent young people, which unfortunately is the main issue, from entering such gang environments. So why would this on top of that help? I have to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think this will lead to? Will this make it easier to get young lost people out of gang crime? Or, on the contrary, will it lead to their becoming even more dependent on the criminal environment, because the support they can get from the public sector, if they become unemployed and cannot get a job, is so much less than it is here? What is the rapporteur's view of the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144739	I think there are two things in this. I think that will prevent some from going into it at all. That's one thing. The second point concerns the question: why do we have to give people who continue crime afterwards continue to commit gang crimes, continue drug trafficking, etc. Now we are reducing the benefit to what is equivalent to the benefit of integration. But the most important thing for Conservatives is that we actually believe that this can keep some people out of this environment, that is to say they think twice, because they can see that they are not getting the benefits they have received so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144821	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks, so we thank Mr Seligman. Erik Lund. So we move on to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101144834	Thank you for the broad support for the draft law, L 77, which we are discussing here in Parliament. I believe that anyone who has followed this debate has realised that the bill envisages the introduction of a three-year quarantine system in the benefit system for convicted gang criminals. I would like to emphasise that gang crime is one hundred per cent unacceptable and also an extraordinary threat to ordinary citizens and the values on which our society is based. If you are convicted of serious gang crime, it must also have consequences for your public services. The three-year quarantine scheme means that the sentenced person is excluded from a number of benefits for three years and, for example, if he was convicted. is on cash benefits or early retirement, the person may receive no more than a benefit corresponding to the integration benefit during the three-year quarantine period. The quarantine scheme includes gang criminals who, by final judgment, have been sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence or other criminal proceedings of a detention nature for an offence covered by Article 81a of the Criminal Code, the so-called gang section. It is the government's view, as I have said, that gang crime is extraordinary and a serious breach of moral standards. There is a clear need to indicate that this is totally unacceptable and that it must have tangible consequences. Gang crime is damaging our societies, and that is why the convicted gang criminals must also feel that it has consequences for access to our welfare societies. So in other words, it is, in fact, a very clear political signal that lies in this legislation that we are discussing now. I would also like to sign for the broad support for the legislative proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145023	There is a request for just one brief comment, and it is from Mr Van der Klaauw. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145028	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I'd like to try to figure out what the government really wants to achieve with this bill. They say it is to send a signal, but is it now also a signal to the criminals and those who are members of the gangs? After all, they have been given one signal after another for years, one gang package after another, with the tightening of penalties and sanctions and all sorts of other things, and this has obviously not helped. So what's really the point of this? Is it not rather to signal to the public that we are very tough and we are tough on crime and what else is said over the other side of the great water? Is that what this is about? Or is it about wanting to have the opportunity to use the welfare system's services more as a penalty against certain groups of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145130	As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party very clearly answered that part of the question at first reading here. Sir. Erik Lund said quite aptly that there is a need for when you have endured your punishment, then to come out and work in the surrounding society. In fact, I think it is very healthy if you are convicted of gang crime or, for that matter, have served a sentence in general that you come out and contribute to society. I guess it's not absolutely crucial that you have to take a deep interest in the detail of whether people need cash benefits. I think it is very healthy to contribute to society. However, having said that, I would also like to say to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, I think this is an important political signal to send to people who commit such a serious form of crime that they are judged by the gang paragraph. I think that gives a good natural reason for setting up this quarantine system, not only to send out a political signal, but also to say that we would actually like to ensure that there is a greater preventive effect. It may also prevent others from going the way that some have unfortunately done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145239	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145242	Yes, and it will probably make it harder, much harder, to get others to go on the right path that leads into society and into the labour market. I would like to ask the Minister a slightly larger question in principle. Does the Minister agree with the LO that this is a serious step forward in our view of the welfare society and the services we have, and why they are there, that they will now be used as part of giving certain social groups a double penalty, and does the Minister have other social groups in mind, which could also deserve to be subjected to such a double penalty, for example? other crimes, where it can be difficult to explain why these criminals should not also have a double sentence when the gang criminals should have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145330	Yes, I have others in mind. We've just made a model for Syrian warriors. That's right, sir. Finn Sørensen said they got it, but that's exactly the model, that's why I have it in mind. I have to say that I am one hundred percent as in one hundred percent in my world they break the social contract that is, and therefore I think it is quite natural that they do not receive public benefits for a 3-year period. Well, you can do it, as Mr. Knox did. Erik Lund said take a job. It's not that bad to take a job. It's actually very healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145417	No one else has asked for a brief comment. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145434	The debate is now open and I give the floor to Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145531	Thank you. A little shorter I would have said that today we have to deal with two double taxation agreements with Armenia and Japan, a change in the agreement with the Netherlands and a supplementary agreement between the Nordic countries. For the Social Democrats, it is good that we enter into these double taxation agreements with several countries. It provides clarity on taxation and can thus also help to promote trade. It is important that citizens do not have to pay double taxes and that Danish industry also has fair and transparent conditions that are in line with companies from other countries, but, of course, also other conditions that the update of the agreement with the Netherlands reflects, in relation to ensuring the taxation of pension payments. For the Social Democrats, it is also important to say that we should not be able to avoid paying no tax at all, and that is why we must insist that we do not, of course, enter into agreements with financial centres without tax on income earned outside the financial centre, in other words, popularly speaking tax havens, and that we have a number of themes that are not open to negotiation in order to protect the competitiveness of Danish employees and companies. Right now, I believe that there are a great many Danes who are following the tax line and who are concerned about how to protect themselves against more tax scandals, and many are rightly really angry and frustrated by the scandal of profit tax, which we have also discussed as recently as today outside this room, and which is quite unheard of, and we have also seen repeated examples of tax candals, where especially those with the highest tax base try to avoid paying the tax as they should. That is why it is important that we continue to fight hard and, with the agreements that are on the table for negotiation today, I particularly welcome the two renegotiated agreements, that is to say with the Netherlands and between the Nordic countries, which are an update and an expiry of the BEPS project that has been in the OECD, i.e. to combat base erosion and profit shifting or in Danish: tax base erosion and relocation. It is important that Denmark takes the lead in supporting international efforts to combat tax evasion, and here several of the measures on the exchange of information and recovery of tax claims are important. In the Social Democratic Party, we have proposed to employ far more employees in the tax administration, among others. to a centre that can ensure a massive effort against tax havens and speculation, just as we have suggested that we take a service check of our existing dbos, to be sure, we are getting the most out of them and that they are just up to date. But we also support the agreements as they stand here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145814	It must have been very clear, as no one has any questions or comments on it. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101145826	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur has said, this is, after all, about a new double taxation agreement and a change in some of the double taxation agreements, among others. Armenia, Japan, the Netherlands and the Nordic countries. The fundamental purpose of double taxation agreements is, of course, very natural, as it is also in the wording that we must avoid double taxation, but also avoid double non-taxation, which is of course for the benefit of citizens who live or work in another country and who may be exposed to it here, but also for the benefit of our companies, because it provides good and clear rules, and that is quite positive. One of the things that was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, and which it is important to include in these agreements, is how we exchange information between the various states, so that, among other things, we can do something about it. can make good tax controls and can avoid and combat gross tax speculation or the use of tax havens. Here, too, it is the agreement with the Nordic countries and the one with the Netherlands that follows up on this BEPS project and where new initiatives are being made. Maybe I'll just look at it a little bit wider too. Because there are a lot of times when you sit and say that this has to be resolved via the European Union. It must then be common tax rules via the European Union, which must be drawn down over the countries where this is, of course, a clear example of how it can be solved in other ways bilaterally between the countries where double taxation agreements can be made and where these things can also be resolved. That is why, apart from the fact that, of course, we support these four legislative proposals, there is also a call to the tax minister and the government to do more of that. Because it is extremely important that we combat tax havens and gross tax speculation, but let us use the double taxation agreements to do so. Let us try, through the OECD, to change the good recommendations they have, which are used as a standard around the countries, let us use those which are good and active tools, instead of thinking that it is alone in a relatively narrow circle and within the EU framework. Yes, of course, it is a large area so that you look at the countries around the world and where the double taxation agreements, I think, are a good and active tool. So also praise for thinking it into the agreements that are here, but a call for it to be done more. With these words, I must say that the Danish People's Party supports these four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150037	Nor did it give rise to any comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150044	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is a small country, a small but open economy, and Danish exports abroad are very important for economic growth. Danish Industry estimates that abroad provides work to 775,000 Danish employees, just as Danish companies have over 1.4 million employees abroad. Therefore, it is also important that we maintain and continuously develop the framework conditions that ensure Danish exports, and we do so by constantly updating and establishing new double taxation agreements. Double taxation agreements are, after all, what makes it possible not to be taxed twice by the same income, but to ensure that income is taxed. So that's the whole idea of it, that's how it's supposed to work. I am therefore very pleased that we have to work together today on four agreements in the series of Danish double taxation agreements. One might say that the first one we have to deal with is the double taxation agreement with Armenia. It is a new double taxation agreement designed to ensure that individuals and companies are not subject to double taxation in Denmark and Armenia, and it therefore contains rules on the taxation of, for example: dividends, interest and royalties. In addition, the double taxation agreement also binds the tax authorities to jointly prevent international tax avoidance. Then we also have an agreement with Japan, which replaces the previous double taxation agreement, which was from 3 February 1968, between Denmark and Japan. The new agreement provides for a reduction in the rates of dividends and royalties, and this will improve the conditions for investment by Danish companies in Japan. In addition, the double taxation agreement is also adapted to the OECD countries' BEPS minimum standards, which therefore combat international tax evasion. Then we have the draft law on the Netherlands or Holland, as we normally call it. There we are entering into a protocol between Denmark and the Netherlands which includes the two countries having their right to tax pension payments. This means that if a Dane moves to Holland and receives pension payments, you have to pay Danish tax on Danish pensions, and vice versa. In addition, the dbo is updated with the latest international standards for information exchange and recovery. This is absolutely something we need, and then it also involves the implementation of minimum BEPS standards. A little the same applies to the North. There we also introduce a protocol on the double taxation agreement between the Nordic countries and it also includes the implementation of OECD BEPS minimum standards. So we also believe that this can help us to contribute to the hope that we can better avoid tax evasion. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the legislative proposals. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150350	It didn't raise any questions either. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150401	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we can vote in favour of these draft laws on double taxation agreements that we are dealing with. We are fully aware and recognise that a double taxation agreement, DBOs, is important for resolving cross-border tax issues. We are also very pleased that, in particular, it is OECD BEPS standards, as other rapporteurs also mentioned, which lead to several of the changes in existing DBOs. The BEPS standards are precisely designed to combat tax havens and aggressive tax planning, so that is very positive. Now that we are talking about tax havens, we would also like to mention that one of these double taxation agreements deals with the Netherlands or Holland, as we usually say, and the Netherlands is one of Europe's largest tax havens. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are interested in whether in the agreement with the Netherlands, in other words the Netherlands, there is a so-called Tax Information Exchange Agreement, a TIEA, in other words an agreement on the exchange of tax information. And if that is the case, we would very much like to know what information we can get from the Netherlands about any Danish shell companies in the Netherlands, and that is something that is about transparency, in other words our ability to see whether companies have a shell company in the Netherlands and in which countries these shell companies have a final tax, in other words where their taxation belongs. Among other things: it could help with that. So we will be interested in that with regard to L 33 on the Netherlands. But our starting point will be that we are of course positive about these double taxation agreements, but we will then in any case ask a single question about L 33.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150612	It did not give rise to brief comments either. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150627	Thank you for that, President. I believe that all parties in the Folketing can see the benefits of double taxation agreements. They must ensure fair taxation in a situation where tax is levied in several countries. This creates very clear conditions for companies and individuals. And we must close the door to unfairly speculating on taxes, for example. ensure that private pension payments are also taxed in Denmark when people have received Danish tax deductions when they are paid into the pension. The proposal here updates the double taxation agreements with Armenia, the Netherlands, Japan and the Nordic countries. We think this is very positive, and of course we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150719	There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150729	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also positive about all four legislative proposals. In the past, together with other parties in the Folketing, we have tabled motions for resolutions on precisely double taxation agreements aimed at achieving more openness immediately before the negotiations and also during the negotiations. There, too, we have received good answers from the tax minister to questions about what is possible and what is not possible. We are still pushing away to achieve maximum openness here in the Folketing about what can now be contributed, but there is also great respect for the fact that it is not a subject that you can just take up. There are many of these agreements that are being dealt with over many, many years. In relation to the model here, which is the OECD model, we have said in the past that we would like to approach what is called the UN model, which in some eyes, among other things. Ours, to a greater extent, takes account of some of the less developed countries with which we can cooperate. However, we support the proposals. We think it is quite clear that we are making these double taxation agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150829	This did not give rise to any brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I'll see if there's a rapporteur for the SF. That does not seem to be the case, and then we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150841	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we also welcome the development of our double taxation network, which is the subject of the bill here. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is specifically about agreements with Japan, the Nordic countries, Armenia and the Netherlands. Double taxation agreements help to create greater clarity for companies in relation to the tax to be paid, and this is important at a time when we are seeing globalisation, cross-border economic enterprises, and Denmark is, after all, a small, open economy where we live from trade with the outside world, so it is important that we provide good conditions and access for our companies to trade with the rest of the world. At the same time, these agreements also help to avoid double taxation, i.e. unfair taxation in two countries. That, of course, is also positive. I just want to congratulate the tax minister for setting this task force in motion, who's going to see if there's any more places where we can make these agreements, because it's really good for Denmark. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101150953	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151003	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the positive reception of these four proposals in the area of double taxation. I cannot thank you for the debate because there has been no one. That could be good and bad. In this case, it is a good thing that we agree on the value of the DBOs we are dealing with here today. As Minister for Taxation, I welcome the four proposals as they help to develop and improve Denmark's network of double taxation agreements. I believe that DBOs are beneficial for companies, citizens and tax authorities, and that is a value that is only reinforced by the fact that we live in a more and more globalised world. When I took up my duties as Minister of Taxation, I expressed my wish for a • and this was what the Conservative rapporteur also wanted to do to increase the focus in this area, so that we ensure that the Danish network of DBOs keeps up with developments. Danish Occupation has rightly criticised Denmark for having fewer DBOs and for updating our DBOs more slowly than some of the Nordic countries. Of course, this is not a criticism that I can only ignore, and that is why in 2016 I set up a DBO task force, where professional organisations are represented and continuously help to identify which countries may need to have a new DBO and which existing DBOs can be revised with benefit. This in order to focus the forces where the need is greatest. I am therefore also pleased that our work on getting more and better double taxation agreements through again this year has borne fruit and that we can now add new and better agreements in the series of Danish DBOs. It is also my expectation that the enhanced focus on the area has laid the foundations for further expansion and improvement of our DBO network in the coming years. Sometimes other things can also happen in relation to foreign policy and other things that are slowing down some things, but on the broad front I also expect that in the coming years we will be able to reap the fruits of some of the work that has been done, namely to enter into new DBOs. Often it takes a few years to negotiate such a double taxation agreement. So what's the value of the DBOs? But they contribute positively to economic development and growth, and they do so by clarifying the tax situation of companies and persons and ensuring that there is no double taxation so that a company is not taxed both in Denmark and in Armenia, but only in one of the countries. And if there is a dispute as to where the tax should be paid, then there are also ways of getting it settled. In this way, we improve trade for the benefit of Danish companies and of the parties to the agreement. The agreements also benefit citizens, especially those who work across borders, and they can help to close the possibility of tax evasion. That is why, as Minister for Taxation, I have an active and ambitious desire to develop and maintain this network of double taxation agreements. It is a course that can also be heard from the rapporteurs' speeches on which there is support, and I would like to acknowledge that this is not a question we are fighting about; it is a question on which we are working together. With the adoption of the legislative proposals, the Folketing then confirms that the four agreements can be approved. We do so formally only at the third reading, and not at the first reading, but all the indications are that this will happen in the light of what the reports from the various parties have been. Briefly on the individual proposals: the DBO with Armenia will ensure that companies and individuals are not taxed on the same income in both Denmark and Armenia, and the agreement therefore provides for the simplification of the tax law for a number of types of income, for example. dividends, interest and royalties. In addition, the DBO obliges the tax authorities in Denmark and Armenia to cooperate to resolve any disputes and assist each other in, thus helping each other to combat international tax evasion and to recover tax claims. This means that we cannot simply flee to Armenia or another country with which we have a DBO and leave a large tax debt there. We can help each other there. As a tax minister, I think it is positive that Danish companies and individuals will thus have greater clarity and certainty about tax matters when working in Armenia or if they intend to do so in the future. Then there's L 32 on Japan. It is good that we have managed to update the DBO with Japan as a replacement for one of our oldest double taxation agreements. With the new DBO with Japan, a number of improvements will be achieved and will thus meet the current DBO standards. It's something that changes all the time. Among other things: The DBO implies a reduction in the source country's tax law in relation to dividends and royalties. There is therefore a substantial reduction in the rates. What does that mean? This means that Danish companies investing in Japan have improved their framework conditions. In addition, the new DBO contains the four minimum standards resulting from the OECD's so-called BEPS project, which we are obliged to introduce into all our DBOs and as soon as possible. The BEPS minimum standards are important as they aim to counteract the erosion of the tax base by artificially shifting profits to low-tax countries, thus avoiding higher tax payments. You might call it legal tax planning, but morally it is problematic. Implementation of the minimum standards in our DBOs thus helps to combat tax avoidance and, as with the DBO with Armenia, I think it is positive that Danish companies in Japan are guaranteed the same conditions as their competitors from comparable countries, i.e. equal conditions of competition. Then there is L 33, and that is the Netherlands. I am satisfied with the protocol with the Netherlands. First of all, the protocol allows Denmark to tax private pensions paid from Denmark to a pensioner in the Netherlands and the other way round, thereby ensuring that persons who have received a tax credit to pay a pension in Denmark are also taxed in Denmark by the pension payer even if they have moved away. That's fair enough. When you get a deduction for payment, you also get a share in the profit when you have to pay the pension. In addition, the Protocol brings the DBO into line with the latest international standards for exchange, information and recovery. That's the question, sir. Rune Lund also had. I cannot answer the specific question here today, but I would like to call on Mr Seligman to do so. Rune Lund to ask a question on the bill, then we can at least solve it. In principle, I agree that it can be exciting to find out. And we need the cooperation we've got it's important. Finally, the protocol implies, and it is perhaps just as important that the DBO is implemented with the above mentioned minimum BEPS standards, which, as I said, means that the existing DBO is updated earlier than if we were to wait for both countries to ratify what is called the MLI Convention and sign up to the DBO. It is therefore positive that we can speed up the implementation of minimum standards in this way. Then there's the last bill, L 34. This is the Nordic protocol, and it is important because we are implementing the BEPS minimum standard in the applicable Nordic double taxation agreement, which, as is also the case in relation to the Protocol with the Netherlands, means that the DBO is much earlier updated with the minimum standards than if the update were to take place via the MLI Convention, and that is positive. So, of course, I am happy to answer questions about the details of the proposal and the agreements themselves and the impact of them during the committee procedure, and I look forward to the further consideration of these four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151757	There is one question for the tax minister, and that is from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151804	Thank you. I am delighted if, as Parliament, we can stand together precisely to give it extra gas in order to combat tax avoidance, which, of course, is one of them. is in this BEBS project. Now I heard the Minister say that we were very ambitious in relation to the DBOs, and that is really good, even in relation to this BEBS project. So I'm really just interested in hearing how you're going to work on just to make sure that it gets into the DBOs while you're waiting for the implementation of this treaty and what else you're going to take of initiatives to give it extra impetus from the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151844	In other words, we have made an agreement which all parties in the Danish Parliament are behind, about combating and restricting tax havens, illegal tax advice and a number of other things, and there the government is fighting under the auspices of the OECD and the European Union, for that matter also under the auspices of the United Nations, but things are moving rather slowly. It is my assessment that we are doing what we can, also in relation to our DBO work, and that Denmark, if we compare with other countries, is at the forefront. But, of course, there are always areas where it can be improved, so of course I will be open to discussing this as part of the committee procedure and the examination of these four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151929	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101151931	It is wonderful, and we in the Social Democratic Party would very much like to discuss this further with the Minister. One of the concrete proposals we have is that more staff forces should be set aside.That's something we've discussed before.Because we can see how many billions Denmark miss out on when it gets cheated and cheated paying taxes to Denmark. It should, of course, be a common wish that we reduce that tax gap in relation to tax speculation and other things as much as possible. So what is the Minister's answer today, in relation to whether there is a need in the Minister's view for more tax officials to be assigned to this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20181101152012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101152014	I think there is good staffing in negotiating DBOs. In other words, the challenge is to translate the international agreements under the DBOs, i.e. the standards, BEBS projects and other things agreed under the auspices of the OECD, not only into legislation that we are well on our way with in Denmark, but also to enforce the rules and get management up and running. This is a political priority. I shall, of course, be willing to discuss whether we should do more, but that is something that we have jointly prioritised and which I think we will also be giving further priority in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101152052	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has just asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that all four legislative proposals be referred to the Tax Committee. If no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181101152114	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 2 November 2018, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
