ParlaMint-DK_20181108100022	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Morten Bødskov (S) and Nicolai Wammen (S): Motion for a resolution No. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to strengthen supervision and increase protection against financial crime). Marie Krarup (DF) and Martin Henriksen (DF): Request no. F 19 (Will the government explain what has happened in a historical perspective with the integration of people who flocked to from Muslim countries, what status is on the integration of this population in relation to immigrants from other countries, and what the government's ambitions and goals are for the Muslim population in Denmark?). Søren Espersen (DF) and others: Question No. F 20 (What can the government say about the ever-increasing downward pressure which Communist Kina in its day-to-day response to Danish companies and to Danish cultural institutions, on the one hand, against the Danish authorities, against the government and against the Danish Parliament, in its attempt to silence critics of the Communist system and supporters of a free Tibet and supporters of a free Taiwan, and how and in what ways does the Foreign Minister intend to protest against Communist China in this connection?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181108100103	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108100122	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 4 of Trine Bramsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 58 (S, V, LA and KF), against 45 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been adopted. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). V 3 of Morten Østergaard (RV), Peter Kofod (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108100246	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 5 of Henning Hyllested (EL), Rasmus Prehn (S), Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF). The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 5 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108100346	The debate is open and I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 November 2018. After the new forms of work, we need to put the rapporteurs in the front row. It's gonna take a while, so calm down. You also have to be logged in, so we're just gonna wait a minute. Are we in position? Even if you have switched seats, it might be that you should leave the drawers alone. I hope that all the rapporteurs have now also logged in. Do you have a feeling that it's in place and it's all true? We won't get started until everything is in place. I think we're getting there, aren't we? Yeah, we can get started. I think that is Question No F-8, which I have referred to, and that is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead. Haven't you logged in yet? It has to be okay before we start. We've got the whole day ahead of us and we're not gonna have to vote till Tuesday at noon. 13.00. Are we ready? Is that okay? Good. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, draftsman of the opinion of the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108100944	Thanks for that, and good to see that we're all here now. In the SF we are concerned about the persistent savings in art and culture, but we can also see that others are concerned. The Minister has received a joint appeal from the cultural institutions to abolish or, at least, to start phasing out the re-prioritisation contribution with real abolition by 2022. And the cultural institutions feel obliged to warn with a common voice against the serious consequences that the continued savings will have for cultural institutions and, above all, for the supply and development of the art and cultural services that we have in Denmark. That's why we've called this inquiry debate. We would like to see savings abolished and, at least, we would very much like to have a debate on when we can eliminate the savings. And that is why we have asked the government the following questions: What can the government say about the consequences of the re-priority contribution, including the quality level of cultural institutions, and how it affects cultural life in the short and long term? Then I hope we will have a very good and exciting debate about art and culture in Denmark and how we can get rid of the green harvesting savings on Danish culture as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101105	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's an answer from the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101116	Thank you. I am also very much looking forward to the debate, because culture is the foundation on which we stand. First of all, I would like to say a few words about why we have a re-priority contribution at all, because there are good reasons for this. In general, the State has limited funds at its disposal in relation to how many wishes there are for what the State should invest in. This is the case in the field of health, education and education, and that is also the case in the field of culture. It's a basic condition. We cannot find money for everything, and that is why I and the government believe that we must have the courage to prioritise, so that we spend the money properly. We must also have the courage to prioritise so that the state institutions constantly have a look at how to do things in new and more effective ways. We simply need to create economic room for manoeuvre if we want to focus on development and priorities, not least of new initiatives. This has been the case for many years, especially in the field of culture. This means that we sometimes have to cut expenditure in one place so that we can invest elsewhere. Therefore, in 2015, the government decided that the cultural area, like other operating areas in the state, should contribute with a re-prioritisation contribution. The re-prioritization contribution shall include, inter alia: the possibility that we can now give priority to areas where there has been a need for a boost, for example. in health care, police, etc. And it has also made it possible for us to allocate over 400 million this year. kr. over the next four years on the draft budget for special cultural initiatives. The funds will be used to address some strategic areas where there is a specific development need, for example: to ensure that the Royal Theatre reaches a wider audience throughout the country, and to secure funds for the state-recognised museums throughout the country, for the district orchestras, etc. We also provide funds for new interventions, such as: • Know your country • where we send 4th-class children around the country to strengthen their knowledge of Denmark, Danish culture, nature and history. So, of course, there are consequences of a change of priority contribution. This applies both to the individual institutions, which have to adapt to a new reality, and to the whole cultural life. With the re-priority contribution, our cultural institutions have had to think new, and they have had to consider issues such as:: How can we make things simpler? How can we attract new users and enter into new partnerships with others such as: funds and business and municipalities? How can we make our organisations more flexible and less vulnerable? And yes, the institutions have been forced to make very difficult priorities. They have had to reorganise their workflows and carry out a strict prioritization of tasks. They have had to consider where they would focus their efforts, and they have had to find new sources of funding to complement the state contributions. I fully recognise that this is a difficult task and that it is a difficult transition when it comes to linking the economy in a different way than the one you usually do; when you have to convert your organisation into unaccustomed ways of working. But I also believe that challenges create a breeding ground for new solutions that might otherwise not have been reached. I think it's a good thing in the long term that you don't just keep doing what you've always done, but find new ways and adapt to the time you're living in. And you have to have the courage to say, this is a little bit more of what we do, and this is less of what we do. I would also like to point out that the re-priority contribution may lead, but not necessarily always, to a reduction in quality. There has been a potential for more efficient workflows in our museums and libraries, in artistic education and in many other cultural institutions. For example: digitalisation has made it possible to provide better and cheaper services to citizens. We have had our cultural heritage democratized in a number of areas. We see that, for example. on the National Archives, which has digitized the most widely used parts of our common archives. In concrete terms, this has meant that even though the opening hours on the archive have become shorter, several citizens use the archive's materials, which are now digitally accessible to everyone. This is true, for example. the many Danes who have an interest in genealogy. However, the re-prioritisation contribution also offers the possibility of prioritising funds for cultural initiatives. This applies to the over 400 million. kr. in total, in the period 2019-2022, which has been prioritised to the cultural area, and the government has already announced that the re-prioritisation contribution in 2022 will be returned to culture. There is, of course, no discussion on how this should be given priority. And from 2019 onwards, more funds will be provided than in 2018. We don't necessarily bring the money back one to the same recipient. So it is not a matter of green harvesting or the opposite straw extension that the well-known consideration should be given, at least on a case-by-case basis, to the priority to be given to the return funds in the field of culture. We do this as part of the priorities rather than just allocating the funds as has always been allocated, although priorities are not always popular. In conclusion, I would like to note that the Danish state continues to invest a great deal of money in culture. Yes, there is still a re-priority contribution in the years to come, but at the same time the Finance Act provides for over 8 billion. kr. to the culture in 2019. That is not an insignificant amount. I would also very much like to note that state investment only forms part of the overall cultural economy; also municipalities, private foundations, local authorities make very significant contributions to culture. Then you look at the general state of culture, it doesn't actually look so bad. It looks really good. There are, for example: never been more visitors to the museums than today, there have never been more reading clubs than today, and there have never been more art associations. As people and politicians, we can also have a tendency to focus on the negative, what worries, everything that is not tomorrow, as it was yesterday. But Danish culture is doing well, and culture is constantly evolving. The Danes consume culture as never before, both the culture in which the state invests, and that which lives in civil society and is driven by committed fire souls. I think this is essential to bear in mind when we talk about priorities and the development of cultural life. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101842	Thank you. There are some comments and questions. Sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101847	Thank you and thank you for your reply to the Minister for Culture. I would like to know whether the Minister for Culture acknowledges that the government and the Danish People's Party have imposed these cuts, which are running to 539 million, with serious consequences for the cultural services of the Danes and, of course, the cultural institutions. kr., accumulated during this government period, of which over 210 million. kr. of course have been taken out of the province's cultural institutions, i.e. throughout the country, Jutland, Funen, Zealand, Bornholm, places where the government has actually said that cultural offers will be strengthened. Does it not have implications for people's access to cultural services and the quality of cultural services, or does it really matter that 539 million have been cut? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108101946	Of course it has consequences, and we fully support the fact that it has consequences. It is not pleasant to have to save, it is not pleasant to have less money than you have had up to now, so of course it has consequences, but it is therefore a re-priority contribution, and that means that you can choose to give a different priority, and that is what we have done with the proposal for the next year's financial law, in which we return 400 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the subject of culture, in order to be able to make choices and priorities. On the quality issue, I would like to say: yes, in some places it has probably had a consequence in terms of quality, in other places it is actually chosen to use this also as an opportunity to do things in new ways, which may mean better quality and not necessarily worse offers to the population. But of course it has consequences, and neither I nor the government will talk us out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102042	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102045	So that means that the Minister and I are in complete agreement that when, for example, we get there. The State Museum of Art, the National Museum of Denmark, the Royal Library, which are some of our national cultural institutions, must limit the opening hours not only for adults, but also for children, so that they cannot come in and experience the art during their school hours, and that you have to close departments and exhibition places, then it is to the detriment of cultural life and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102118	I have experienced many times that Mr. Mogens Jensen tends to put words in my mouth, which I have not actually said. So let me explain for myself what I'm talking about. The fact that in some places the opening hours are changed and the opening hours are reduced is not necessarily a bad thing if, at the same time, we ensure that cultural heritage is democratisation in the sense of digitising, so that citizens have much easier access to the archives or whatever else they need. If opening hours are reduced in museums and other places, it may be that this means giving priority to new initiatives that reach out to citizens outside the institution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102200	Thank you. Sir. Mogens Jensen took advantage of the fact that I was wrong, and I understand that, but there is only one round for the rapporteurs. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. There is only one brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102217	Then I'll have to be sharp. President Yes). What worries me is that the government is not planning to cut the savings on art and culture. There have been huge savings that have had major consequences, but even out in 2022 what the government is proposing is not to drop the savings, but still to ask the institutions to save, and then the current government must distribute funds according to what the government considers important. And that will mean that the pressure to constantly streamline, constantly saving on what you can deliver, will continue. So what I really just want to ask the Minister: does the Minister recognise that even with that reserve in 2022 you will have to save everywhere? And then I'm gonna ask, does it have an end? Well, can you really keep doing that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102306	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102308	First of all, I would like to reply to the latter, i.e. whether it has an end: it probably has an end at some point. We look here many years into the future. Secondly, I would like to say that it is a natural exercise for any institution or company, wherever it is in society, to be forced to make it more efficient and to look at how to organise and organise work. I notice that Mr. Jacob Mark consistently talks about savings. I should just as consistently like to talk about priorities. We know, of course, that if there is no room for manoeuvre to re-prioritize, it can be done, for example. This means that one cannot carry out such a thing as a museum reform... it has tried so many times. And when there is no room for manoeuvre also to ensure a transition to a new economy for museums, then it becomes almost a political impossibility to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102358	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102402	Thank you. If I took 539 kroner. from my children's allowance and gave them 400 kroner. back and said it was just some sort of re-priority, then I think I'd meet a certain protest. So you can use the word saving. But the question is: when the minister says that you should not continue to do what you usually do and that we have to let politicians interfere a little by taking some money and handing it out in a different way I don't think it's a hard interpretation. I'd like to ask: which institutions do as they usually do? I do not know one cultural institution which does not constantly think about how to rethink how to adapt to time, how to adapt to the needs of getting better at things, not one. But I would like to hear the Minister tell us who it is in the cultural landscape that says: we do as usual, and we do not change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102457	I don't know anyone who does either. You work with development and you work very well with development. But there is something that we need to take a political position on. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Looking at the museums, it is not the museums themselves who decide whether an art museum in North Jutland should have a significantly smaller state grant than an art museum on Zealand. It is on the basis of a political decision that has been taken once, and it is not something the museums themselves can simply change by developing. This requires that we make a political decision on how the museum support in Denmark should unfold. So it takes political decisions. The museums can do a lot, but they can't do everything. We, as politicians, have an obligation to set a framework and make priorities, and we must have the courage to do so, whether it arouses resistance or joy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102550	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102554	What is important when we have this discussion is also to look at what we can agree on are facts. As the Minister says, how much money has been re-priorityd from culture, and how much money will we now begin to give back? It is, of course, a downgrading of culture in general, and then I think it is artificial to talk about a re-prioritisation. Does the Minister still think that this is a re-priority, or is it a downgrade of culture in this government's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102624	It is a matter of re-prioritisation, but it is also obvious that there has been less money. That is quite clear. Anyone can go in and make sure of that. So it's very simple to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102635	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102639	Thank you. Thank you for your reply. I almost said saving, but that's not what I meant. I understand the reasoning of the government and hence the Minister for Culture, namely that sometimes institutions or areas have to be pressured to think new, and that can be done, among other things. by taking some money from them. But we live in a Denmark which has transformed a very, very bad economic situation, as it was in the early 1980s, into a situation in which it is actually doing really, very well economically and in competition with other countries. In other words, we have been through many, many economic upheavals, I would call what has led to us having solved a large number of challenges and getting better. And then you are allowed to believe that once we have a more stable and decent, good economy in Denmark, we can also have a safer approach to both the education and culture areas to name two key areas. I would just like to say about culture: it is impossible to streamline Naples by taking out the third act or asking someone to play Beethoven's 5th symphony more quickly in order to make it more efficient. So culture cannot be compared with other areas of efficiency. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102803	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102809	First to the first, what the economic state is like. It is true that Denmark has become richer societies, but we have been through a financial crisis. The Left Government, which took over in 2015, took over a challenged economy. I would like to say that, and I think Mrs Marianne Jelved is well aware of this with the many, many years of ministerial experience that Marianne Jelved has, that as a member of the government you are sitting with various ministers, but you have seen overall responsibility for the overall portfolio. And that means that if you want to invest in cancer plans, in better health, in education, or whatever it may be, now I know that education is going to be discussed later today and if you want to invest, without increasing and increasing a tax burden, which means that Denmark's competitiveness in relation to abroad is being weakened, then you have to make these priorities. It goes without saying that I have also heard the argument that you cannot take an act out of an opera or ask a symphony orchestra to play faster. I know that very well, and that is why we have to make some choices other than those of absurd choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102917	Thank you. Then there are no more comments and questions, and then it's again, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108102934	Thank you. I think it's great to sit this way; you kind of get to know each other more. That is also what art and culture can contribute to, namely that one gets to know one another more about meeting across, and that one meets about experiences that one had not just predicted one would find wildly exciting or challenging, or experiences that lead to a hard discussion afterwards about whether there was any meaning whatsoever in the works of art that one just saw. That's what I think is great about art and culture. It creates value for our country, tough economic value, by attracting tourists and making people think that Denmark is an exciting place to visit, so that we suddenly have a capital that is number one on Lonely Planet's list of cities to visit in this world. But it also creates value in a way that we forget to talk about sometimes. It creates basic quality of life and joy and the feeling of having something with others. I think, perhaps, that we should start talking a little more about the value that culture creates and which is not just the one we are counting on in the Ministry of Finance. In addition, art and culture help to bind our country together, both because it gives us a better understanding of each other, but in fact also because of something else that I think the Left in particular sometimes tends to forget about the wing I myself belong to, namely that we stand on the shoulders of something in a country, that we have some traditions, that we get out of something and that we can be quite proud of it. And in order to understand what it is we must move towards something better, something more progressive, something hopeful, we must also understand where we come from, and that understanding is our Danish cultural heritage helping to give us. All of this I experience either crumble a little or erode when you constantly save on it. But are these savings or reprioritisations? That may sound a bit like a politician's debate. Because you've had a change of priorities in Denmark. We've been involved in adopting this ourselves in SF where you have said: Now we have an area where we throw some of the money into the air, and then we spend the money in the same area again, but perhaps on some other things. But if you look at the overall calculation, what has happened during this period, both in the cultural field and also in the field of education, is that you have thrown up the money and not let the money fall on art and culture again, at least not all of them. They have been used on other things, such as: was important to the Liberal Alliance. I know that this will be a victory for the Liberal Alliance, but when the President of the Liberal Alliance goes and blisters that one billion has now been paid. kr. I think it sounds a little hollow when you know that, among other things, it is a tax reduction per month for a year. comes from our education and from the fact that we cannot look after our Danish cultural heritage in the same way that we could, when we cannot develop culture in the same way as we could. So, yes, we are talking about savings, even if we are now giving a little back to the elections. Then there's the time. After a lot of savings, a reserve has been set off in 2022. The problem is, I think, that once all the institutions have been asked to save and then in future they will be asked to put such a large share, i.e. 2%, in reserve, they will have to budget again every year for not having the money they thought they had. They need to save 2% and that creates uncertainty about the economy. This will mean that they cannot plan the budgets as they would otherwise be able to, and it will also mean that if you want to distribute it around, some will lose funds every year. So I also think that we can still talk about savings in the future, and I think that if we are to strengthen Danish art and cultural life, it must stop. SF would like to do so, and cannot do so now, so at least at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, when hopefully there will be a new majority, but I really think I hear many people say that they would like to do so. This leads me to the proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and SF, which reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government and Dansk Folkeparti's re-priority contribution, which annually obliges Danish cultural institutions to save 2%, has resulted in cuts in art and culture throughout the country for 539 million. kr. and thus significantly weakened Danish language and culture and deteriorated art and culture offers to citizens. Art and culture are an important foundation for our welfare society... as a strong contributor to the general education of people and the joy of life of the individual, as forms of our historical identity and strong contributor to the Danish community through participation and shared experiences. Therefore, we must protect and support the Danish cultural life, so that it has good conditions for developing throughout the country. The Danish Parliament therefore calls for the savings in art and culture to be phased out and for investment in art and culture, so that the cultural institutions can again focus on quality and development and create good art and culture opportunities for citizens throughout Denmark. • V (6). • V (6). •
ParlaMint-DK_20181108103452	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then we get to work with the rapporteurs, and that's Mr. Knox. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108103512	With this question debate, we will have the opportunity to focus on the major cuts that the government and the Danish People's Party have made on the cultural institutions and also on the cultural offers of the Danes during this period of government as a result of this 2% re-priority contribution, which the government intends to continue with as far as possible. That is why I would like to thank the SF for the opportunity to have this debate today. The negative consequences of the re-prioritisation contribution are clear. There's been a cut of 539 million. kr. on the cultural offer of the Danes during this reign, of which is over 210 million. kr. cut on cultural offers and cultural institutions in Jutland, on Funen, Bornholm and Zealand outside the metropolitan area. The remaining amount has been cut by the national cultural institutions in the metropolitan area. The government and DF have said that it is important for them to strengthen culture throughout the country, but the very opposite has been done, namely draining the province's cultural institutions and dragging Denmark further culturally skewed. It is a wrong cultural policy direction for Denmark, and basically one can say that it is historically large cuts the government and DF have made. Compared with the large cuts of 900 million. kr. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party are responsible for a marked weakening of Danish language and culture on DR and the consequent deterioration of the Danish radio and television offers. And the consequences for cultural life and for the Danes we have seen clearly developed over the past year. I take a few clips from the media that illustrate what the savings have meant. Here it is first the Royal Library, where the then director, when the savings were withdrawn, said: Now we must also cut the core services themselves. And then it says: As part of the savings round, the Royal Library will now drop five out of the library's six cops reading room, reduce the purchase of new materials by 10-15%, extend the processing time, reduce the service to, among other things. The University of Copenhagen and cut in the opening hours of the library. In addition, 43 years' work should be given priority over to the National Archives. As mentioned in Altinget, the consequences are that the opening hours at the National Archives' four reading rooms in Copenhagen, Odense, Viborg and Aabenraa will be reduced. This means, among other things, that in Aabenraa and Odense it is now only open twice a week for 5 hours at a time. The State Museum of Art and the National Museum have had to reinstate entrances, where it has until then been free for the audience to enter the museums, which is most beneficial for those who do not have so much money. Finally, in connection with this, the National Museum of Denmark has had to fire 38 employees at their development department and at the visiting places outside the National Museum itself, and the exhibition place called Brede Works, which tells about the history of industry, has had to be closed down. In general, industrial history has been closed down as a field of work. And you also reduce opening hours. It's just a couple of examples. For social democracy, art and culture are important, and that is, as Mr. Jacob Mark also said, a foundation in our welfare community. It adds to the formal education system to our general education, it contributes to our joy in life, entertainment and pleasure, it forms our historical identity, and it strengthens our Danish community through participation and shared experiences. And then it is also an engine for creative innovation and development in society and therefore also for our economy. We therefore want to ensure a further boost in relation to the government's draft Finance Act 2019 of culture. We cannot make up for all the savings that the government has already made, but there is a need to give priority to the area. That is why we propose that the reprioritisation from 2022 should be as under the previous government, namely that the institutions deliver 0.5%, which goes back to the cultural area and is used for new initiatives. At the same time, we are going to set aside 100 million. kr. over a two-year period in the next four years to break the negative social heritage of access to culture. It is a step in the right direction and a step in the right direction, at least in relation to what is the government's bad course in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104030	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mr. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104033	I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether he can confirm that, despite the understandable complaints and complaints that the rapporteur is passing on to the Danish Parliament, the Socialists will not correct what has happened in the past. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104057	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104059	Well, it can be said that in general, this government has implemented a great many bad priorities: health, education and research, which have cost many billions, among others. has been used for tax relief. And it is not possible for us in a coming period of government to correct all the ills, but we will do what we can to strengthen, among other things, the future. arts and culture. That is why I have put forward the initiatives that we are going to take and which therefore involve, which I think is important, that the cultural institutions can look forward to 11⁄2% in 2022. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104154	There are no more comments. Unfortunately, no, there is only one brief comment. I was wrong at first. Well, here are two brief comments! Oh, my God. I gotta get this all straight. Here you go, sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104208	We are not discussing this with the President. So I was obedient. President. - The debate is closed. We see in many areas that social democracy is very much opposed to what the government is doing when it comes to consolidating the Danish economy. Yet, if you gain power, you will live high on what the government has done by not changing it. That's just what I thought I'd put a little focus on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104241	We would very much like to change the government's priorities in the future. That is why we have just proposed and said clearly to the cultural institutions that from 2022 they will not be paying 2%. in re-prioritization contributions; there they will pay 1⁄2%, and the half-percent is used for culture, i.e. Things which, in fact, can benefit the institutions as well. We think this is an important signal to send out so that we do not just have to continue this murky migration with cuts and quality degradation of citizens' cultural services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104316	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104320	Thank you. To conclude: under a possible government led by the Social Democratic Party, the re-prioritisation contribution continues, but to a lesser extent, i.e. 0.5%. instead of 2%. At the same time, the Socialists will then also set aside 100 million. kr. to strengthen culture, as I understand it. Where's the money, the 100 million? kr., come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104350	The 100 million. kr. We will allocate until 2022, when we say in 2022 that we will reduce the re-priority contribution to half the percentage. The 100 million. kr. to be seen together with the 504 million. kr., which the government has brought to us and we also acknowledge that the government is doing at least in relation to what was otherwise planned over the next four years. Of course we want to support this, but we want to add the 100 million. kr., which comes from the economic space available in the social democracy 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104431	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104432	So the re-priority contribution of 2%. shall continue until 2022, after which it shall be reduced to 0,5%. At the same time, 100 million will be found. kr. I understand that there is room for manoeuvre. But it's money on the roof. Well, we know the room, and it can go very fast. We've seen what happened in 2008. There can be a financial crisis very quickly. So are not the promises made by the Socialist rapporteur in this regard a little far-reaching? Can we not be a little more specific? Where will the money be assigned if it is not to be the room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104511	I think everyone recognizes that there is room for manoeuvre. So our position on the part of the Social Democrats is that a small part of this room for manoeuvre can also be used to reduce savings, cuts, in the field of culture. And I think that Alex Ahrendtsen, when he will represent art and culture in Denmark on behalf of the Danish People's Party, should also try to make some suggestions as to how you can strengthen investment in art and culture rather than continue the cuts that the Danish People's Party has helped to make, not least in relation to culture in the province. So I look forward to hearing from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party here how to help strengthen art and culture in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104552	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108104603	Then it is fortunate that you will have the opportunity to reply to Mr. Mogens Jensen's question. But first of all, thank you, sir. Jacob Mark and the Socialist People's Party to call this inquiry debate. I think it is excellent that we have the opportunity to discuss it. First of all, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has been concerned about these re-prioritised contributions, which have been all over the board, and we are quite specifically proposing to abolish the re-prioritisation contribution altogether, not 0.5%, not 1%, not 1.5%, but all 2%. from 2019 onwards, and we will do so by finding the money within the Ministry of Culture area. We find them by cutting down on international cultural pools. In 2014 it was based on the 2008 figures... it totaled 0.25 billion. kr. distributed among various ministries and for the Ministry of Culture about a few hundred million kroner. Unfortunately, I haven't gotten the latest figures from 2017 yet. I hope the Ministry of Culture will deliver them soon. If we cut back, there will still be at least 100 to 120 million. kr. to international cultural pools. That is our priority, that is what we have sent over to the government in connection with the financial law negotiations. If the government meets us in this area, the re-priority contribution will have been removed in the field of culture. I would also like to say that the re-prioritisation contribution is something that has existed since the 1980s, and all governments have, after all, stood up for it. The new thing is, of course, that it was rolled over all areas, and the new thing is that the Ministry of Culture had to deliver this money. Then they have gone to another box where they have been used to strengthen the police and to strengthen health. The second thing I want to say is that the Danish People's Party is set in the world to help, and we have, of course, helped the government to remove the health priority contribution. Fortunately, we agreed on that and here a few days ago or was it yesterday? In the future, there will no longer be any re-prioritisation of vocational training. I would also like to say that the re-priority contribution is difficult for cultural institutions. This is particularly difficult for small cultural institutions, and it hits badly, and it hits badly. It's a green harvester, and let me just give you an example. The Royal Danish Academy of Music, in a daily speech Kongekons, costs approx. 100 million kr. Much of it is tied into operation because of a protected building, and where can you cut? On the courses and that is approx. One third. So they're 2%. hits relatively harder, and that is why we are proposing to find the money by cutting down on the international cultural pools. The government has then proposed in the Finance Act 2019 that the re-priority contribution continues, but instead of putting them outside the box, they put them into a cultural box, and then they take up the money and give it to friends, preferably in the big cities. That's not a very good way to do it. This means strictly that Skagen and Ribe and the museums on Ærø for example. is going to pay for the Royal Theatre to have some more money. It's crooked. We can call it the Christian Juhl doctrine. We can imagine that we have 100 children. Then we take the 100 kids' money and collect it in a box, 2%. of the money they get and only give it to some of them. Of course, that is not a good way to do it. I would also like to say that when everyone has to save, culture must of course also support it, but let us do it wisely, and that is why we are proposing to cut back on the international cultural pools. It is our opinion that it is better to spend the money in Denmark, at least some of them. So it is not a either-or; we take some of them and use them in Denmark. Finally, I would also like to say, which is important, and I have asked the Ministry in the past, and have received an answer, that when we compare Denmark with countries such as France, Sweden and Norway, which are known to spend a great deal of money on culture, sport and leisure, we are at almost the same level: around 2%. If we cut out sports and leisure time, we will be there at 1.2-1,3 per cent. So Denmark is on a high level. I should just like to say that, of course, it is not only the expenditure of the state that is also taken into account by the municipalities and the regions. However, we remain at a high level. These should be my comments on this wonderful question debate, hopefully, and I am available for further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105116	There's a lot of it, too. Here you go, sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105119	Thank you and thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for his speech. The rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party has helped the government. Yes, and in this specific context, the government has been helped to cut 539 million. kr. Away from the cultural institutions and the cultural offers here in the last few years. And contrary to what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has the habit of saying that the Danish People's Party is in favour of strengthening art and culture outside the metropolitan area, so the Danish People's Party has helped cut 212 million. kr. cultural institutions outside the metropolitan area. I think that is sad, but it should be noted. The Danish People's Party often has such a snappy solution: we do just that and get the money there. And now you've been throwing yourself at the international cultural pools, and I've been looking at them a little bit. What's there is, among other things. Our entire music export, i.e. the export funds to ensure that we get better earnings from Danish music, is our film export, it is the Danish Cultural Institute that makes a really good effort for small money in very many countries, and that is to run the Danish House at the Kunstbiennalen in Venice, to name but a few examples. What are some of these things, sir? Alex Ahrendtsen thinks he's bad and needs to be cut away?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105246	Thank you for the question. In other words, it is absolutely true that institutions outside the metropolitan area have lost some money and also institutions in the metropolitan area. And that is also why we are proposing to remove the re-priority contribution. We have also had some discussions with former Minister for Culture, Mr. Bertel Haarder, who was also very sorry about the way things were going on. We did not manage to change those conditions. And then there's the snatch pools. I really think I made it very clear that we would not remove all the international funds. We will take some of them, so there will still be room for, for example. cultural institutes or exports, i.e. Music Export Denmark is 4 million. kr., and cultural institutions are, as I recall, 16 million. kr. And since it's still gone, 120 million. kr. If the numbers are still holding up, then there's money for Mr. Mogens Jensen's sticks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105353	Here you go, sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105354	I don't have any special cockhorses in this regard. But when the rapporteur mentions the international cultural pools, it sounds so easy. And I'm just saying that underneath there are a number of initiatives that are actually important for Denmark and to present Danish language and culture abroad. And I understand that DF is just ready to cut away. Because it's not just music exports. It is also film exports that are included here. And in addition to what I mentioned, I can also take the Danish Institute in Rome, Athens and Damascus, which has actually played good roles in promoting Danish art and culture, Danish values, in these countries. Well, now I've mentioned eight things that together take a lot of money out of these cultural pools. - Sir... Alex Ahrendtsen just mention one or two of these things that can be cut away? In addition, Danish artists can present Danish art and Danish language outside Denmark's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105455	Thank you. I'm not gonna negotiate a bill with Mr. Knox. Mogens Jensen, but with the government. So what's gonna happen there, I don't want to premarital. And then I would just like to remind you that the Socialists are continuing the re-prioritisation contribution of 2%. until 2022, after which it will continue at 0.5%. We will completely remove it from 2019. We have then pointed out a priority, and that is a priority: we would rather spend the money in Denmark instead of going abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105525	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105527	Quickly, this can be a very big discussion about words and a bit of what is being called newspeak in Danish today: how we can talk about something like what it isn't. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen talks about the need for a change of priorities, but then a little priority will be given to culture. Is that the calculation in the Danish People's Party's proposal as a whole? I was sitting and trying to say plus, minus, plus, minus a downgrade of the cultural area that will happen in kroner and øre from 2019? Because I just couldn't keep up with all these pluses and minuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105606	That is a precise question to which I shall reply precisely. Of course, we still save approx. 80 million kr. on the entire territory of the Ministry of Culture when we remove 80 million. kr. from the international cultural pool. That is absolutely right. What's just good about this is that in future all the cultural institutions in Denmark, including the capital, will not lose 2%. That is why we think it is a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105630	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105632	Well, I am fully in the wish of the Danish People's Party for where it is that you spend the money. It is entirely valid and we can then have a political disagreement. But I think it would suit us if we dared take the discussion for what it is: do you want to downgrade culture or do you not? Then we can always discuss where it is right to spend the money, but I just think this discussion has gradually come to something like that with how many words we can use to remove some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105701	In my speech, I also said that when we compare ourselves with countries that spend a lot of money on culture, France, Norway, Sweden, we are well placed. I also said 'yes' to the question: we are going to cut down by 80 million. kr., but we then free all cultural institutions in Denmark. That is our way of resolving it, and I think that is actually very responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105728	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105731	Thank you. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen from many negotiations and also knows that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen can be stubborn in the positive and good way and very energetic and actually also under this government to get a lot of his will through, and that is why I wonder, because something is wrong when Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has accepted that 539 million has been saved. kr. on culture. With my knowledge of Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, I'm thinking that Mr. So Alex Ahrendtsen has not made any effort, or it has not been important enough. Because it's really a lot of money that's been saved on art and culture on Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's guard, and I'm surprised. I'd like to ask you something. I am delighted that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says that you want to get away from this green harvesting method, and then Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen have some international pools that I personally do not know very much about. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen didn't really answer what it is for some parts of these international pools that will bring us near these 80 million. kr. - Sir... Alex Ahrendtsen just mention two things? I am sure that if we had discussed savings in other areas, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen just hurled them out like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105846	Thank you for the questions. Now I'm not bigger than I am. When the venerable Nestor didn't even succeed, sir. Bertel Haarder, who was the Minister for Culture in the Left Government, to change the green harvesting method into a smart way of doing that, I think that we are making a little big demands on Alex Ahrendtsen, who was just the rapporteur. And when we couldn't even have it changed in a group, it was because there was a massive resistance in the government against looking at it. Then I think that I am actually very specific and that I have been practical all the way through. We are pointing to an area that we want to cut back on so that we can save all the cultural institutions from the re-prioritisation contribution. After all, I am not going to go into the financial law negotiations with either of you here on the platform. Mogens Jensen or Mr. Jacob Mark on some parts of the international cultural pools, for this must be done in a negotiating room. But we say that there is this corner of the Ministry of Culture that we would like to cut back on, and I think that is actually very concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105954	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108105959	I do not really only think it is part of the financial law negotiations to say where you want to save. If sir... Alex Ahrendtsen had said that one would like to save part of the education, my natural next question had been: which? It just seems a little like sir. Alex Ahrendtsen is hiding under this headline. I recognize that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is not a minister, and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has probably done what he could, but what is the next step if he doesn't succeed in the Finance Act? Will Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen then try to call those parties in and over to the minister to try to see if you can find the money elsewhere, as we have done on for example. Vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110036	Why don't we take one thing at a time? I am sure that the government has heard what the Danish People's Party has said to us, and I am sure that they have read our financial legislation in the field of culture, and I believe in good will. If it turns out not to be true, we may have to talk afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110057	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, as the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110107	I would like to hear from Alex Ahrendtsen whether it is the policy of the Danish People's Party to first take 539 million. kr. In the last four years, and as we approach the elections, we are happy to begin to share 400 million. kr. Out. That is what the Minister is up to and probably wants DF to be on board. DF has certainly been involved in the green harvesting of the 539 million. kr. And put them in a box. The interesting thing is that the 210 million. kr. has gone to the province, and Mr. Ahrendtsen often says that we should get the money from Copenhagen, but here the rapporteur has helped to take money from the province, a fairly large amount, 210 million. kr., and then he splits every once in a while a million. kr. out here and 1 million. kr. Out there. Isn't it a little bit to cheat people and then say that now I should come and help you with some money, but I've actually taken 10 times as much money as you get back?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110206	I don't think it's cheating people, but of course it's a Band-Aid on the wound. I'd like to say that. Nor am I a great supporter of the way the government does it. They let the re-priority contribution continue, they collect the money, and earlier they went to some other boxes, but now they put it in a culture box, and then they go and look at friends to see where they would like to spend the money, and then they take it up and distribute it out, among other things. a H.C. Andersen centre on a estate in Kalundborg, and this is about 2 million. kr. and 3 million kr. over 2 years, although Hans Christian Andersen has only visited once there. This is not a very objective way of doing it, and that is also why we are proposing to save 80 million. kr. in international cultural pools, and then we free all cultural institutions from this saving contribution, and then we correct the damage of the past. I think that is a good, objective and very concrete way of conducting policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110307	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110310	Now Ahrendtsen says the government does. But the government cannot do it without the Danish People's Party, and that is what has happened in the last four years. It is not DF policy, but DF has accepted it, says the rapporteur. The rapporteur then says that they will distribute to their friends. Shouldn't you be careful about throwing stones if you live in your own glass house? I mean, I remember Fregatten Jylland, and I remember a strip of Ahrendtsen's friends, who have suffered from one, the other and the third Finance Act. Is it different from what the government does, or is it some of the same just in smaller format?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110354	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110358	Never throw stones, whether it's in your own glass house or in other people's glass houses. After all, we have not been involved in the government's draft budget, and that is where they are proposing to take the 400 million. kr. over 4 years and then put them in a box and then benefits, and there I just say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that this is not a very clever way to do it, because we would rather remove the re-priority contribution because it is objective and because it is everyone who will then benefit from it, and then we will find it in a single area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110426	Thank you. Then there's no more comments, and then it's sir. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110436	Thank you, President. Although the proceeds of the re-priority contribution have gone to good ends in the health sector, to the police, etc., anyone can say that 2%. down every year couldn't run forever. Many of us have been saying this for a long time, and that is what the government has now decided and which the governing parties are happy about. The money shall be returned from 2022 and then the aforementioned 400 million shall be distributed. kr. on the Finance Act this year. This not only means that there is light at the end of the tunnel, which also means, I think, that if we look at Danish cultural life under one, cultural life is all in all better equipped with money now than in the past, if we take into account what the municipalities give, what the foundations give, and also what an ever-growing audience gives, whether for festivals or museum visits. There are more and more people taking advantage of cultural offers in these years, so overall I would say that without being able to document the fact that the total cultural consumption in Denmark is increasing. I wish the Minister for Culture every success in doing so, and I would also like to wish her every success in trying to gain greater freedom than I had as Minister for Culture to move the money around within the budget. I will pass on some free wishes that I hear from the water pipes, namely, firstly, the possibility of at least moving the surplus up to the coming year rather than being forced to burn the money off before New Year. Perhaps it could be seen that it could be a free gift. Now that the money from the re-prioritisation contribution has to be returned from 2022, I know that there are many institutions that would not want it this year, because it is better if what they are going to have is given on a four-year basis, because then they can live with the fact that, on the one hand, there are re-prioritisation contributions while, on the other hand, the money is being transferred. These are just some of the wishes which I have traced and which are absolutely free to meet, as far as I can see. Then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party and the government parties, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a total of 8.3 billion has been allocated in 2019. kr. to the cultural area. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government, on a proposal for the 2019 Finance Act, envisages that the released funds from the re-priority contribution in 2022 will be transferred back to the education, education and culture area. The Danish Parliament finally notes that the State's contribution represents only a proportion of the overall cultural economy. • V 7). Then I should like to say to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, that she feels covered by what I have said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110842	Thank you. Is this proposal for adoption submitted? It's fine. Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110858	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder for the speech, also thanks for the free suggestions. There may be reason to consider looking at them. What I want to ask the rapporteur is the proposal of the Danish People's Party, that is to say, to remove the re-priority contribution and take the money from another part of the cultural budget, namely from international cultural cooperation. Mr. Bertel Haarder, that it is a good idea to remove the money for the Danish house that stands at the art biennale in Venice, or for the Danish cultural institutes or for our music export and our film export? Mr. Bertel Haarder, that this is a good way of financing the removal of the re-priority contribution, or prefers Mr. Bertel Haarder another way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108110959	We must always listen to what other parties have of proposals, especially when it comes to making the economic ends come together. Therefore, we should not reject anything in advance. But Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen knows that I do not think that the snatch solution can be used to any greater extent, including. because the purposes, as Mr. Mogens Jensen was reading, but he's pretty good. This is among other things. the Danish cultural institute, which for relatively small money does a great deal to present Danish culture abroad. It could even be said, when it comes to international affairs, that we sometimes wear small shoes, what we might have to think about. But it's not all that's sacred. You must always listen when someone has proposals for savings, because anyone who can save can also raise money, and that is what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen here practices.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111102	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111106	Thank you. I just think I'll sign for a clear answer from Mr. Bertel Haarder that the proposal that I mentioned here sees Mr. Nor is Bertel Haarder as a viable road, because it is actually important areas of action to present Danish languages, Danish values and Danish culture abroad. So I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111127	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111131	I'd like to know if Mr. Bertel Haarder believes that the re-priority contribution should continue and whether he believes it is wrong to call an exercise where you take 539 million. kr. and supplies only 400 million. kr. Back, a cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111154	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111158	If there is less money in all, you might call it a cut. I myself have been responsible for the fact that the state cultural budget has been slightly lower, which, of course, I did not think was funny. You just have to remember that it is not the case that the Ministry of Culture's budget has been cut by 2%.; it is operating appropriations If you look at the overall cultural budget, the state, then the limit is 1%. a year. In addition to that, everything that the municipalities and the funds give and that people themselves take out of their pockets, and there I have the claim that cultural life is not on scramble, but that it is actually growing, all in all, in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111246	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111249	Well, I didn't say so either. I said that it has been charged, in re-priority contributions, 539 million. kr., and that you will now distribute 400 million. kr. These are the two figures which have not been contradicted and which I hold up against each other, and what I am saying is that it is surely not wrong to call it a saving. And by the way, I asked if Mr. Bertel Haarder is in favour of re-prioritisation exercises continuing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111317	I have not denied that there will be less money in the exercise that Mr. Christian Juhl here mentions. On the other hand, I agree that in the future there will also be a re-prioritisation contribution. For what is so distressing for a Minister of Culture and also for cultural rapporteurs like us are the cases where all money is locked in the existing appropriations. And there will be a chance of a change of priority to move things around a little and pursue cultural policy, and we should actually be in favour of that. Then what I added was that when the money is returned, it should preferably not be this year by year; then the institutions would be terribly keen to have a longer term in the way in which it is returned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111411	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111415	Thank you. I mean, the advice that was free of charge that you should be able to plan for longer-term is also a piece of advice I have heard. The institutions find it frustrating that you do not know what you have to do well with in the future. That is actually why I want to hear what Mr. Bertel Haarder thinks about the model you have chosen with a reserve where you know right out in 2022 that there will then be some sort of saving that will be distributed again. In other words, is it sustainable in the long run to make cultural policy in such a way that one has the means for one year at a time and that the current government can at any time sit and distribute funds to friends or to what it considers important? Is this a sustainable way to make cultural policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111457	If you do not get extra money, I think you will have to have general savings or re-priority contributions forever, which will then be reversed in a way where there is an element of cultural policy, an element of political priority between the areas, rather than it all being frozen like ducks on an iced lake. For that is how I saw it as Minister for Culture, and I believe that the current Minister for Culture has seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111532	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111535	Well, that doesn't make it any easier. When you are asked to deliver money from the cultural area, it becomes even more difficult. That's also some of what we're trying to talk about. Perhaps it is also time to say: now we are stopping the erosion of cultural budgets in Denmark. But what I would just like to hear is that we know, if you are going to have a change of priority contribution, that social democracy has then said 1⁄2%. in 2022. That is how I have understood the policy. What's in mr. Bertel Haarder's eyes are a level that is sustainable for cultural policy if you are to develop and have something to redistribute? Is 2%. So the right thing? That is what I hear from the institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111616	I think the Minister for Culture gave a very good example of why it may be a good idea to make a re-priority contribution, which provides a revenue that can bring about change, namely the 30 million. kr. to a museum reform. If she couldn't get that money, I think it was almost hopeless to reform the grant model for the museums. And if you spend $30 million. DKK, there is not much left of a change of priority contribution of 1⁄2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111652	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111657	I'd like to follow up a little with Mr. Knox. Mogens Jensen, who asked a couple of tricky questions to Mr. Bertel Haarder. Mr. After all, Mogens Jensen grabbed hold of the cultural institutes in Rome, Damascus and Athens and asked whether Mr. Bertel Haarder would remove them if we looked at international cultural resources. And that is very tricky, because now I have just checked the figures, and the three institutes, in Rome, Damascus and Athens, are 12.2 million. kr. Total per year. And the other cultural institutes are 15.8 million. kr., then total 28 million. kr. We also know that in 2014 international cultural funds amounted to 247 million. kr., and I'm sure that amount isn't there today, so let's just cut it down to 200 million. kr., i.e. that there are 200 million. kr. Back up. The rapporteur then does not recognize that it is still possible to maintain these institutes, as Mr Vandemeulebroucke has said. Mogens Jensen mentioned? Even if we find 80 million. kr. for the re-prioritization contribution, there will be 120 million. kr. And since these institutes cost $28 million. kr., will there not still be funds left so that they can continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111816	I'm listening with interest to what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says, and I think I also emphasised, that we should not reject anything in advance. But if I am asked whether I think it is superfluous what the Danish Cultural Institute is doing around the world, then I would say that I think we have a very good model in the Danish Cultural Institute, which is a complement to our embassies with the independence that the Institute has with its own board of directors and its own chairman and director. I don't want to touch that, because I've been following the Danish Cultural Institute for many years and I think we're getting a lot for that money. So that's the difference, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen and I, and I think we live with that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111859	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111902	There is no disagreement. We can say: you must continue because there is money for it, even when we find the money to go to abolish the re-priority contribution. There will still be money; let us just put it down to 100 million. kr. Then there will still be money for those institutes, because they cost 28 million. kr. together. Then there's 72 million. kr. back to other international cultural pools and now we have really shaved it down. So, in that light, is it not a good idea for us to talk about this during the budget negotiations, since we have saved these institutes that are not going to get into play at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108111940	As I said, we should not reject anything in advance, and it is particularly foolish to reject something from a support party that works as loyally and well as the Danish People's Party does. But we are allowed to have our opinion in the government, and on this point, when it comes to international affairs, we do not agree with the Danish People's Party. And I think we're just gonna try to live with that and then be good friends for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112008	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112012	Thank you. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Bertel Haarder as someone who speaks straight out of the bag and is not afraid to say things as they are. And I am just concerned that we have this debate on the right basis. Because we can always discuss everything else. But what I really would like to ask, sir. Bertel Haarder on, is: Has there been a downgrade of the culture of the government so far, and will there be it forward-looking, even with the way you move the money around? I mean, is there a downgrade in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112046	When you have a re-prioritization contribution, such as: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to dispute that, in relation to the health sector and to the Ministry of Justice, there is a lower priority when using this method. But I also note that if we go and get a new government, it may well be that something else will be done in the future, although I think that the Social Democrats will discover how little 1⁄2%. is, and how little they can do good with 1⁄2%. But the Social Democratic Party doesn't want to roll anything back. In other words, this is what we are hearing about in the future, despite the fact that social democracy has been crying quite forcefully throughout the whole process. What they were complaining about, they won't patch up just forward-looking. And I think that's good for the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112146	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112149	Now the alternative is not so preoccupied with, necessarily, what a social democratic government wants or does not want. We are concerned to work for the policy in which we believe, and that is that we give priority to culture, especially in the time we are in now, when we actually see a need for more places to gather, for more history, for more things that can also help us to move our society forward. And I would really like to know whether the rapporteur, as the wise member of the Folketing, does not agree that it is right now in the time we live in, with the upheavals that are taking place, with the challenges we face that we need art and culture in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112229	I regret that in the rush I did not remember that the alternative has a Prime Minister's candidate and therefore, of course, cannot depend on what a possible Social Democratic Prime Minister will do. I'm sorry, and I'll remember that for the future. But I do love culture just as much as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, and I am delighted that there are other sources of cultural life here in Denmark; the local authorities that are the foundations, and people themselves who attend festivals and public meetings etc. increasing and paying in expensive sentences for it. It's culture, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112311	Thank you. And there are no more comments or questions. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112327	Culture is not theater, and songs, dances and games. Culture is the total sum of what we learn from. Carl Scharnberg said this in a good poem called "Culture," where he thinks: What is culture really? And culture is a lot of things that we can't put on a little formula. He then ends the poem by saying: "Culture is also theater, and songs and dances and games. For, like, emphasising it. That is what puzzles us, that is what excites us, and that is what gives awareness of our own roots, but also awareness of the roots of others. And that is why I am sorry when some people cut the cultural history of the workers' movement, especially at a time when we just need to get a place to stand. It is also culture that is indignant, it is culture that creates debate, it is culture that creates joy and a tear on the cheek sometimes. That's the way it should be, and that's why I think it's good to have this discussion. Thanks to the SF for that. Reprioritisation is a sport for lazy politicians who dare not give priority to the part of the process that is called: cut. You'd rather have a knife and a green harvester. They say: then we let it do it for us, and then we can say it's going to hurt everyone. And then, as happy Santa Claus, we can hand out just up to an election afterwards. I think it is naughty to charge 539 million. kr. Over four years, and when you can see on the horizon that there are elections now, you as happy Santa Claus distribute 400 million. kr. It's millions I'm talking about, and if I say billions, it's because I'm the one who's not good at expressing myself. The cultural institutions should know their budgets and there I think that Mr. Bertel Haarder had something right so that they can experiment so that they can try new things, and so they dare to do more than just run the day-to-day operation. Well, that's the idea of it. Those who change priorities are those who lack confidence in the ability of cultural institutions to be visionary to be innovative. And I do not think that suits either the Minister for Culture or, for that matter, others who are in favour of that sport. The Enhedslisten is opposed to green harvesting, and we are in favour of the fact that we dare to give political priority even when we have to find the money; not just let a green harvester do the work for us. We are in favour of greater freedom for cultural institutions within the framework that they can be given, and I think it is strange that we should have this debate on re-prioritisation. Because when we sit and discuss the reform of the museum, if anything, then we can take political responsibility there and redistribute and then say: we know that we would rather give priority to this and that kind of museums must have the money, and if there is no new money, then we have to take it from somewhere else. Then we stand by where we get the money and take a political priority instead of the blind, neutral, distanced and alienating green harvesting. They must have the opportunity to plan, they must have the opportunity to experiment, and therefore: both Mr. Bertel Haarder's proposals are good. In fact, I thought it was the case that profits could now be transferred from year to year, because this is precisely what inspires the institutions to find new money for themselves. And if you don't just have a project this year, but you want to work another year with it, then it is clear that you should be allowed to leave the money in the box. We could never dream of taking money from private companies, for example. had a small profit. Cultural sociologist Peter Duelund says very, very harshly that this is a kind of culturalism with increased political governance sneaking in. It takes away the freedom of the institutions and overrides the principle of arm's length and the tradition of freedom that has existed in Danish cultural policy. Those are pretty violent words, and I wouldn't have chosen them if I had to write an article about that kind of thing. But the position is right. Politicians are starting to meddle in small details, and it will be an Alex Ahrendtsen cultural policy that we will get, where we will then give out a little to our friends, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says as we approach the time when we are to be re-elected. I think it is poor, visionless, and that we should try to stop this and say: from next year we will have no re-priority contribution. And so I say directly: I do not agree with the Social Democrats that you should have 1⁄2%. We must dare to give political priority to cultural policy, and we must do so both when we have to find the savings and when we have to spend the money elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112819	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then we shall have the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108112833	Thank you. Culture is what people do to enrich life for themselves and for others. One might think that it was a Dane who had said it with the tradition we have, but it is actually a French philosopher who has said it. When I say that, it is to emphasise that culture is a great many things, and that is also what people do to enrich life for themselves and for others. And not only what a state or anyone else decides is good and provides money for. Fortunately, there is a great deal going on that is not dependent on government appropriations, but is other appropriations, or is user charges, etc. We have a rich cultural life in Denmark, and we do, because we are the country of association we are. That must be guarded. We fully agree with that. It is worth taking care of, and I usually say that the money for our cultural life has been very well spent. You get a lot for the money, because in every corner of cultural life there is also a lot of voluntary work • participation, commitment, user fees etc. So it's kind of the entrance, that's that it's really good. Now all the cultural life supported by the state has a tendency to freeze if only one gets one's funds unchanged year after year. You may choose to regard the re-priority contribution as something negative, but you might also choose to regard it as something positive, namely that it gives reason to look at things in the seams, i.e. whether you could do it in a different way, a better way, a more effective way. There, at least, we have a basic position in the Liberal Alliance that an efficient public sector, and hence as effective a cultural life as possible, is actually worth pursuing. Then there is also the detail that may often be overlooked, namely that there is not unlimited funds in the public sector. There isn't. And if we look back just a little, the reality is that when the re-priority contribution was introduced, it was, in fact, because of a difficult economic situation created by a previous government that had run it all the way to the edge. Then it is necessary to give priority, and that is something you forget a little. That is why one can fear that if that accident should happen again, if we end up out there again, then we need a change of priorities, and culture must remember to send the thank-you cards to the right people when that happens. Because we have to give priority to this. It is possible that there are some who want to just demand taxes and demand taxes and distribute them, but that is also irresponsible. So I think it has been responsible policy to do so. So is the big question right away: can this continue unchanged forever? Of course it can't. One cannot re-prioritize that way forever, and I think that almost everyone has now said that it has to be moved around. However, it has been a good, responsible and sensible way of doing so now, and therefore there are also changed signals about spending money in this area, etc. Then you can discuss the size of the re-priority, that is to say what it is and what it should be. I hear there are things going on around the Finance Act, so there are also things going on in other premises than this in this area. We'll see what comes out of it. But we are entirely behind the government's responsible policy, both for economic reasons and also for the sake of keeping the transformation and development going in these institutions that communicate, manage and care for our culture. So we see it not only as a bad thing that there has been a re-prioritisation contribution. In fact, we see it as a good thing. And if it is not to be removed, it may have to be replaced by something else, so that it keeps dynamic and responsible in cultural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113245	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113251	Thank you. The Bureau, where the rapporteur is also sitting, was asked by the Ministry of Finance whether it wished to introduce a change of priorities into the Bureau's way of running the Folketing. There was a clear answer from all five Bureau members... • Left, Social Democracy, Liberal Alliance, Enhedslisten, have I forgotten anyone? No, we don't have to. We can easily make a political decision on how the priorities should be within the economic framework with which we have been allowed to work. Then the question to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen: What is the difference between a major cultural institution and the Bureau? When it comes to running a business, it is nice to be able to prioritize and have the freedom to prioritise within the budgetary framework that has now been allowed to work, instead of others coming as taste judges and telling us how to prioritise. And what's the difference? Why is it okay that the Bureau can decide for itself, but not okay that a larger museum can decide for itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113354	I'm sure that's debatable. I do not recall that question to the Bureau at all. I am very unsure whether it is in the time I have been sitting in the Bureau that this has been asked. I have to say that. I do not recall giving that answer. But I can't say it didn't happen. It is possible that Mr. Christian Juhl remembers. It is true that it is good to be able to give priority to ourselves. That's it. Now the Bureau is in a slightly different situation, because it has a little overarching responsibility, so I would probably have answered as has been the answer, namely that the Bureau should be able to do it itself at any time. So that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113435	I asked why a well-run and large museum or another cultural institution cannot do the same. What is the reason why taste judges, politicians, the minister should decide how to give priority to them? So another question: Why do you have to use the green harvester to get the money in, and then, as a politician, you hand out mild gifts for an election? Well, I don't quite understand the logic of that. It is, after all, such a paternal attitude towards the cultural institutions that the government is presenting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113515	Sir. Christian Juhl also knows that if there is no more money to do good, then the possibility of prioritising something particular lies in moving things around. Otherwise, you have to have that attitude that the public can never be big enough, which may be in the subconsciousness of Mr. Christian Juhl; that you just have to find more money. It's not responsible. The prerequisite for prioritising, if we do not want to increase public expenditure, and this is not in our perspective, leads to the need to re-prioritize. In fact, I believe that it has created dynamism in many places in cultural life that one has had to look at one's own business, i.e. whether one could make it smarter and better. And some of the examples mentioned today point to the digitalisation that is taking place. Well, the reading room has been mentioned. There are many other accesses to our cultural life now than there was when one had to physically move after it. I guess it hasn't quite gone over the head of all of us in here that there's actually a development going on out there that gives other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113610	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113613	I got a little curious about Liberal Alliance's cultural policy when I heard the speech. For SF's cultural policy is that, in view of the huge savings that have been made, we must invest more in culture than we do today. I think it is excellent if one could focus on breaking with the inequality in culture, because there is a very clear tendency for some of those who have the least to not take advantage of cultural offers in the same way as others. But what is really the policy of the Liberal Alliance? And what are LA's proposals for economics in the future, because the Liberal Alliance would like lower taxes and, indeed, a smaller public sector? So is the policy of the Liberal Alliance not the policy of the government, but the policy of LA that there should be a re-priority contribution, that is to say that you streamline and then spend the money on some other culture? Or is it that there should be less money for culture in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113703	So now we are completely in favour of the cultural policy being pursued. We have the position of Minister for Culture and we are part of the government, and so we are entirely behind the policy that has been pursued and is being pursued in the future, as is possible with the majority that can now be found and which will contribute to it in an economically responsible way; so that we do not get into the situation that those sitting in the front row over here created a few years ago, namely such a bad economic situation that we have to do something. It's the real world. It's very good to ignore it when it doesn't fit into things, but it's the real world. There we will be pursuing a responsible economic policy so that we have an efficient and willingly slimmer public sector, which may otherwise have a tendency to simply consume. In other words, the private sector is making itself more efficient as soon as it is needed. This may also be necessary in parts of the public sector, and that is our policy in general. It is then, as I have said, that we think it is very good that support for cultural policy is given to culture in Denmark. We have many values to uphold, and that remains, and it is at a high level, I would say. We have good support for cultural life and we have no plans for it to be significantly lower, but rather with re-prioritisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113826	So we had left a quite healthy economy. However, no, we had not taken into account the fact that 20 billion had to be given. kr. I'll tell you what I'm gonna say. We had not budgeted for this, because we think that is an error priority. But I would really like an answer to my question: if the Liberal Alliance is not in government after the next elections and there is a cultural rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance on the platform to tell us what the policy of the Liberal Alliance is in this area, is it that culture needs to be spared in order to have a smaller public sector so that taxes can be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113853	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113857	Now it has to be seen in the context of our general policy. When we point to tax cuts, there will be more money for the individual. Well, then, sir. Jacob Mark better advice to also possibly participate in user fees in the field of culture. You have to see it in context. One cannot say both that one finds money for tax relief, which is also welfare, and which increases the opportunity for the individual, and that one increases the amount of cultural support that must be linked. If we do what red parties tend to do, which is to demand as much tax as possible, then it is clear that the individual has less to do with it, and then a larger public sector might need to be connected. That is why it must be seen in the context of our general policy. So we see fine that the subsidies for cultural life may be reduced, so that you have a higher user fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113941	The next question is Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108113946	Thank you and thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. It is not surprising to me that the Liberal Alliance as such is defending that art and culture are being cut back in order to allow for tax relief for directors and the top-paid. I think that is quite expected. What I wanted to ask is a little further, sir. Jacob Mark said, and he is also talking about what the citizens have the prospect of happening. Because when I go in and see the Liberal Alliance's cultural programme, it says that there must be a certain amount of user fees for all cultural institutions. And then I think: what are the cultural institutions that are not currently user-paid? And there we have libraries, which so far have been a place where people, without having to have money out of their pockets, have been able to go in and acquire information, read newspapers, borrow books. I just want to say that when there are all cultural institutions here, does this mean for the Liberal Alliance that we can look forward to seeing that, if the Liberal Alliance comes into government next time, there will also be the introduction of user charges in libraries?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114051	Yes, and in the context of the policy I have just mentioned. I am very pleased that Mr. Mogens Jensen almost highlighted the policy of the Liberal Alliance with tax cuts, but there is one detail in Mr. Mogens Jensen's description. If sir... Mogens Jensen looks at the tax proposals we have made, so there are no tax cuts for the rich. So it is tax relief for ordinary people, so that they can better afford to participate in the whole of cultural life, so that it is not the case that we in here know what is good for someone and thus decide that the money goes certain places. The second is personal freedom, and it offers increased opportunities. It is possible that it is very far away from Mr. Mogens Jensen's thinking, but it is a good, healthy liberal mindset that we want to pursue and, of course, in all areas. It cannot be said both that there must be tax cuts and more money for each and, at the same time, that we must increase public expenditure. That is the way it is, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is proposing a very good and healthy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114146	Now I think we all remember a certain party leader crawling very high into a tree with demands for top tax relief, and top tax relief is therefore for the director and the highest paid. However, I am pleased that the rapporteur for Culture has answered clearly: if the Liberal Alliance comes into government next time too, then the aim is to introduce user charges into libraries as well. I think that's good for people to have in mind, even when they have to tick their marks at the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114217	Yes, and then they get tax relief, so they can afford to pay for it, sir. Mogens Jensen, contrary to the policy of social democracy. That is absolutely correct, and we are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114223	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114232	Thank you. Every time I come up here, I stand looking for where I can put this down. I need a stool. Second Vice-President There's a button. ) Well. Thank you, sir. President, that was helpful. I shall begin with a little verse called the Bondens Song, and it is as follows: Wear and hard work, from day to day dawn to sunset and nighttime. I plow my field, I harrow my land, just let the emperor's power be never so great. I really like that verse. It's 4,300 years old, and it's written by a farmer in China. And that's a good expression of what art is. Art is cross-border, it is cross-border and it creates a culture because you become part of a larger community. The art must be visible in order for culture to grow and develop, and now we have the discussion about the consequences and experience of the re-prioritisation contribution. Art and cultural institutions must, of course, dismiss employees in these times, the reduction of functions will be a consequence of this, because art cannot be made more effective. Art cannot be limited by a change of priority contribution or other limitations. There is an American architect who lived in the 1900s, Louis Kahn, who has said something like what I am quoting now: Art does not create a need, art fills a need. We didn't know we were missing Beethoven's Fifth Symphony until Beethoven wrote the Fifth Symphony. Now we can't live without it. It is the nature of art, it is that which creates a community around a wide range of cultural experiences that we cannot do without. However, we can limit the dissemination of art by reducing cultural institutions. The institutions are restricting all their activities, and they are doing so because they have been given the re-priority contribution, which means that they cannot simply continue their activities, and the cultural institutions can actually figure out when it does not make sense to keep open any longer. It must also give us some thought for all of us. We know that museums have quite specific tasks, and now I take them as an example: they have to collect things for the museum, they have to register it, they have to preserve it, they have to preserve it, they have to communicate it and they have to carry out research. All five elements are important and central if it is to make sense to have museums as we know them today, and it requires employees. And you cannot just shut down the content of the museums, because it still needs to be preserved and recorded and collected. It may not be possible for us to have time or money to communicate it, but in any case it should not be allowed. So far, savings in the field of culture have been of a different magnitude, because there have also been savings before the current government came into existence. But one had the idea of the Ministry of Culture's ability to save, that one had to look at what was administration, and not what was art creation, because it did not make sense. That is why it was said that the Ministry of Culture should save 0.5%, because that was 2%. of their administration. And that was to be understood for most people in Danish society. That is why I am appealing to the government, perhaps, to take it in, because I am quite clear that priority should also be given to moving things around in many different ways, but we should do so in a way that does not spoil what we want to promote. So I would just like to say to the Minister and therefore to the government that the Radical Left is actually working on a draft Finance Act for next year, and this is going to be debated here in Parliament at some point this autumn, and there we have actually funded a stop to the re-priority contribution in the field of the Ministry of Culture. 400 million kr., after saving 539 million. kr., over 4 years, is good, because it is better than nothing, but that is not what can compensate for a saving of 539 million. kr. We also know, as several rapporteurs have pointed out, that it is not only the state that finances culture. A few years ago, I had an analysis of how expenditure was distributed or how contributions were distributed, and the state then gave in the order of 10 billion. kr., municipalities in the order of 13 billion. kr. and the funds in the order of 11⁄2 billion. kr., and I think that's quite true today, except for the state, whose contribution has fallen a little. That is why I cannot help asking the Minister or the government one simple question to which I do not expect answers now, but which can only be used for reflection. When will re-priority be enough? In fact, the government should inform us of this, because it allows better planning in institutions, and it also shows greater respect for cultural and art institutions. So that is an appeal, because it makes more sense to see when it ends. This does not mean that it cannot be introduced again at a later stage, but it is just to appeal for better conditions for those who have to communicate the arts and culture in the saving proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114829	There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. And we move on to the next in line, which is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108114847	Let's call a spade a spade. I simply think it is incredible that what we are discussing here is actually becoming a game of words. What we are doing right now, what we have seen happen, is a downgrade in the cultural area. It is a political choice, and it is quite fair to make political choices, but it is not a re-prioritisation. It is a re-prioritisation of the overall budget for the budget, but it is a downgrading of culture, and I think we should be honest about that rather than making it sound like it's all sorts of other things. The Minister said in his reply that it was in order for the institutions to be given new thought. We just have to look at the reality today and they are not that new ideas are being thought about, but that less is being thought about: fewer exhibitions at the National Museum, less research. Is that what we want? I mean, what kind of discussion are we gonna have here? Instead of jumping back and forth between words, we have to ask: what is the role of art and culture in our society? That must surely be what we need to look at, and then we need to find out how we can prioritise it and not play with words about reprioritisations, dedications, etc. I think that the political priority seen by the government and the Danish People's Party has been such an agenda since 2015 and it is the government in various constellations that has been such an agenda about how little is enough?, instead of looking at what it is for a time we are living in right now. We live in a time of great challenges, with big upheavals, a little in a time when we are all under pressure, as to how things usually are and how we usually look at things. And that's where we need art and culture. We need the art and culture to create communities in which we can meet. We also need the art to imagine something else to push us. And that is what we need to discuss how we prioritise. It has been chosen to downgrade it, and that is what I think we should be quite fair about. Because there is an expiry date on the re-priorities. We have seen a debate in which the Director of the National Museum, I think, was, like, able to see when the closing date is, if you continue and continue to have to give priority, in other words send money out of the institutions. Because we now have to cut back on the core tasks of the institutions, and that is what I think the parties that are in charge of the money will also have to take responsibility for. These are the core tasks we have to mess with, and no longer with whether it is one coffee machine or the other, or how many pages are printed. No, these are core tasks such as research and dissemination in the museums. And I actually think it's amazing that this is not what we're going to be discussing in connection with this excellent question, that is, what this really means. Instead, it's going to be a game of plus with minus, minus on plus. The essence of that is what we have to decide. From the point of view of the alternative, we believe that priority should be given to art and culture. We have done so in the financial legislative proposals we have made; we have, in fact, given priority not only to roll back this downgrade contribution, but also to put money in it because we believe that there are some things that art and culture can do. Then the question always comes: Where should the money be taken from? They're not taken from a hospital bed to a museum. No, when you make a financial act, the money comes from the Finance Act... it's just to get some of the questions that usually come in front of you... and that's where you gotta make these priorities. If you want more culture or less culture, you can turn on revenue and you can turn on expenses, and that is what you have to decide. So I really think it is a pity that this debate has become such a plus-minus debate and a battle for some words instead of the essence: what do we want with art and culture in society, and can we do that for the means, so we can demand it for the means we give? Or are we in a position to mess with something when we look at the way we, for example, cut down in the supporting cultural institutions? I think it should be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108115305	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we've come to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108115317	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. The good thing about all the cultural rapporteurs is that they are very dedicated and passionate, and that is what this is all about when we talk about art and culture. I'd like to pick up a few points. I would say that I think it is very good that we have now come to the conclusion that social democracy will continue to have a re-prioritisation contribution. It must be reduced, but it must be maintained and the resources that the re-prioritisation contribution has led out of the cultural area in recent years are not being returned. Then the voters know what it is to do well with. To Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, in relation to some of the challenges of some of the artistic educations, I would like to say that it is in the government's financial bill here for 2019 that we have to return resources to the artistic educations corresponding to roughly two new professorial positions at each institution. Of course you can use them as you like, but I would just like to say that at least there is thought that there are also some challenges in artistic education. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen also says that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and Dansk Folkeparti don't like the idea of distributing to their friends. I just want to say that, for example. In the government's financial law game, we actually need quite a lot of resources on the project • Know your country • where all Danish 4th classes are going on a training trip around their own country. I think that is the kind of friend we all are, so it's not a question of whether there are some you don't like and some you like. This is also about looking at it in its entirety. Bertel Haarder is calling for greater flexibility, including in the way the budgets can be used, and I would just like to say quite frankly that I think that is a very good idea too. I think it is strange that we should like to burn off petrol at the end of the year before we are finished, so I can say that here, even though I am, of course, loyal to the government's policy. But of course we must also be able to discuss these matters in a government. Then I would say to Mr. Christian Juhl: Well, one cannot both say that we must have the courage to prioritise politically, and say that we are approaching a culturalstallinism. You just can't do that. And the fact that there's been much less corporate income tax, and what I know is notoriously nonsense. Let us just look at the media, which we have discussed very much. Those of you who remember back, and Mr. Thompson can. Christian Juhl, for he is at the same age as I remember having a radio council, which sat and prioritized which radio programmes were to be made. It was a programme council where red and blue blocks on turns simply sat and decided who would now be new managers in DR. There has been more arm's length, not less arm's length. And if you're going to have the courage to give priority, as Mr. Christian Juhl is asking for it, so that certainly does not mean more arm's length. Personally, I am in favour of having the courage to move things around, but I have certainly also seen that the times that I myself initiated to move around some things have so loudly heard protests from those parties who believe that you should not touch anything and that the world should just continue tomorrow as it is today. Mrs Marianne Jelved says that we are restricting communication because of the re-priority contribution. Now she has left, but I would say that we have better communication than we have ever had, and so have we, even though we have had a re-prioritisation contribution. To Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist I would say: it is true that it is annoying that we always only talk about money. I'm one hundred percent in agreement with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist in, but I just have to ask: what has happened in the cultural field in the City of Copenhagen after the alternative has been given the cultural mayor's post? I'm just asking. This is an expression of the fact that this is a democracy. There must be a majority behind it in order to do some things. That is what the City of Copenhagen has to do, it has to do in the Folketing, it has to do in every place in a democracy, and that is why we have to work for how we should give priority wherever we are. I think we should definitely have that priority discussion. What is my point of reference for organising matters in the field of culture is that I am in favour of fundamental reforms rather than the nonsense of jumping from stone to stone. This applies to the area of the museum, to the media sector, and to the performing arts. We need fundamental reforms, but this requires that we all have courage. I want a predictable operation on the cultural institutions, and I believe that many others have mentioned this today. That is a very good thing, but at the same time, in a democracy, we must also stand by the fact that if we make five-year budgets, as has been done in certain parts of the world, we may lock up future governments, and that is why we need to find the level of predictability that we should have without binding the politicians of the future too much. Finally, I would like to say that I sincerely and with all my heart want development opportunities to be created. This requires that there is air to be able to invest. I have referred to the museum area several times. The resources we use in the museum area in the state-recognized museums today are so totally frozen that really good new initiatives simply cannot breathe under their wings. So we must have the courage to give priority, but at the same time, when we live in a democracy, we cannot lock the situation so far into the future that future governments do not have the room to change things. This is an exciting debate, and when we go around the country I drive myself 90,000 km a year and see how the condition is out there, we simply have a lot to be proud of, even when we compare with other countries. It is a high, high level created in cooperation between state investment, municipal investment, foundations, business and, above all, civil society, which is so supportive of cultural life that not only because you feel it is a duty, but because we know that culture is what enriches our lives, binds us together and creates the foundation for everything else that takes place in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108115929	Thank you, Minister. A break is scheduled from 8:00 a.m. 12.00, but I have decided that we are going through with the brief remarks so that we finish the point. The first question is Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108115941	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. It is true that it is a good thing that we have clarified here how the positions are • the government intends to continue with the 2-percent contribution to the cultural institutions, as far as the eye can see. The institutions then know that, that is to say, they have to keep taking 2% each year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work. That is the new thing, that is, from 2022, the money will be spent in the cultural field. That is, of course, positive. However, the position of the Socialist Group is clear that we must have it down and back to the half-percent that we had before the government came to. What I would like to ask the Minister, because it also has something to do with what the prospect is, even after a forthcoming election, is whether she can confirm what Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, confirmed that it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the minister belongs to... that if you come into government next time, you will introduce user charges into libraries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120052	This is entirely in line with what Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said here to say that we must take a position on that. User fees are a very good principle, because there are many people in this country who think that things are free of charge, they are not, it costs, and it also costs to run the libraries that the municipalities own, we have to remember that. If we can make the significant tax cuts that we want in the Liberal Alliance, we must of course also look at user charges. But it's closely linked, just like Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said in his paper. So I would like to say about the position of the Social Democrat: it is very good that we are now being told that the 2-percent contribution should continue over the next four years; we do not close the gap that has been criticised and criticised; it is a good knowledge to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120132	But it is simply impossible to find all the billions that the government has paid for tax relief and restore Danish cultural life in the coming years. It is an impossible task for any government that might come, as we see it. But I think it is a good thing, at least here at the end, to find that with the Liberal Alliance in government, ordinary elderly people, families of young children and others, including low-income groups, in other words those who do not have so much money, can look forward to them now having to pay to visit the library. I think that is a sad development, but it is good to see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120213	That is absolutely right. But at the same time, if this is to happen, the same citizens will be able to look forward to significant tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120217	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120222	I enjoy when I get to step the Minister for Culture on her two sore toes, because then the debate is going to get a little rough, which is more fun than just reading numbers. It is bloodless to believe that only politicians can bring about development and change. They are actually better at it out in cultural houses, out in music venues, out in museums than politicians are at the end of the day. What I am criticizing is that if you want to change it as a politician, you have the right to take the courage to give priority to where you take the money and not blindly let a green harvester do the work for you because you think it is uncomfortable to make that priority. And then we should not just give priority to the distribution of the joyous gifts. That is my criticism. That is what I call lazy politicians, that is, when you do not give priority to where the money is taken from. If you cannot pick them up from another area, then you have to decide where they are to come from instead of letting the green harvester get that money. It is quite bloodless and visionless to work in this way. I understand that a minister likes to distribute, but then the Minister must also dare to point out where the money is to be collected instead of letting the green harvester do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120339	I do not think anyone here among the rapporteurs who have been here today has claimed that only politicians can bring about change. Fortunately, there is a lot of change and development everywhere in our society, including in our cultural institutions. And, frankly, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson... Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, who says that it is bloodless not to dare to prioritize: We have just made a media agreement which is so much a priority. I remember last year when we made a marginal priority by saying that a district orchestra should finance that the other district orchestras came to be stronger. I remember clearly what massive criticism it triggered that we actually dared to make those priorities. I don't think sir. Christian Juhl can say that the government or the Liberal Alliance does not dare prioritize. We do, and we do so with open eyes, and we want to defend those priorities. Nothing is easier than that, as Mr. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten say that it just takes more money, more money, more money. It's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120450	Now we are not in a situation where more money is needed. We're in a situation where we fight to keep that money. It is the Minister and the government who are taking the money out of the cultural area. There's a difference between taking 539 million. kr. and only distribute 400 million. kr. It is not a re-prioritisation; it is a downgrading. There's 139 million missing. kr. in that calculation, and the Minister will answer for that. What I object to is that the Minister says that we who do not want to change will just stick to it. No, that's wrong. We are confident that cultural institutions can change. We dare say, you just keep the 2%. And make change for the money. 'Cause it's a lot more than if you and I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120539	So we have to ask where resources are to come from so that we can do a stage art reform? Where is it that can become resources for new exciting museum sites to find air and gain a foothold at all? You have to ask that. I can only see that coming from somewhere, namely that more money needs to be spent. It is true that priority has been given to the cultural sector. Now we have ensured that some of the money will be returned over the next four years, 400 million. kr., plus that there is extra entry compared to 2019, which makes it a plus on the bottom line. That is the priority. We stand for it, we defend it. We know it's hard where it hits. But if you want to ensure that new initiatives can be taken, then you must also have the courage to take those decisions. That's what Mr. Christian Juhl, on the one hand, and on the other hand, he says that we should keep our hands 100 percent away. That's not gonna work out, I'll tell Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120637	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120641	I can say one thing that has happened in the City of Copenhagen after the alternative has been given the cultural mayor's post, and that is that one has actually started to discuss what it is we are going to do with the art and culture of the city. It's done. Then I could come back and be just as petty polemical and talk about budget reconciliation and who cuts or gives money, but I don't want to. Because I actually think it is much more important to discuss this issue we are talking about here, namely a downgrading of culture or what we want with it. And I'd really like to hear something. For now the Minister himself mentions, for example, what happened last year, when a lot of money was taken from an orchestra to distribute to the other orchestras, and I heard that the argument was that it was to balance. I did not hear any cultural policy, art policy arguments, in relation to what it is you want out of it in relation to music throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120738	Well, then it's 'cause sir. Rasmus Nordqvist hasn't listened. Well, I have to say that. Well, it's just going back and seeing what the argument was for it. The argument was that the district orchestra here on Zealand from the local municipality receives DKK 200,000. per year in support. Several of the district orchestras which now received money receive between 20 and 30 million. kr. per year in support. It's an imbalance that I think everyone will see is there. And what was the culturally-political argument for doing that was an economic argument... is that everyone in this country should have access to symphonic music.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120819	But what we did not discuss was: how is it that the music is to come out? How does the music get to Lolland-Falster etc.? That is the argument. You can also hear when the Minister answers now that the first thing that is being laid out is again such a municipal policy with where the money is coming from, instead of • and that is what I am actually asking from the Minister • what we want with art and culture today. Because I do not see the arguments as anything but that little is enough and how it is that you create a municipal economic balance in society, and I think that is just poor. That is quite fair if it is the policy that the government will stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120853	One cannot therefore both demand arm's length and then say that we in Christiansborg must decide how culture gets to Lolland-Falster. It is an absurdity; you cannot claim both at once. Culture must bind us together as people and as a country, and there must be access throughout the country. We have a cultural institution landscape in the country that is really, really fine, but what makes culture alive is not the naked institutions. It is that people use them, it is that there is a civil society. I have not visited, I think, a single cultural institution in which there is no voluntary commitment in some way. So culture is not just about money, culture is about life and commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120941	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108120947	Thank you. The minister asked a little rhetorical: how are we going to get money for performing arts reform, and how are we going to change the area of the museum? And I think the Minister could have continued: how are we going to find money to make any different kinds of changes in the cultural field? Then the Minister is right to say that this is a priority and I just want to say that yes, it is. I just have to say that I certainly do not think it should be the truth everyone should hear out there that the only way to do this is to make savings elsewhere in the cultural field. There is also the fact that, in the Finance Act, priority is indeed given to putting money back into the cultural area. What I would like to ask is that both the Minister and Mr. Bertel Haarder has been talking about this with predictability for the institutions. That's what the minister says is important. Now I think I will start by asking: does the Minister think that this reserve model of setting aside reserves in 2022, where there is a re-prioritisation contribution, should continue in 2023, by 2024? I know you can't say that on behalf of the government, but is that the policy of the Liberal Alliance? Well, would it be good to continue with such a reserve model?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121055	It is very, very difficult for me to stand and say what should be the policy in 2023 and forward. I just can't. It's not that I don't want to. But the basic principle of re-prioritisation and the need to have a public sector that runs as far as possible on the liter, in order now to use a pussy that I do not like otherwise I am in favour of. I think it is a sound principle that I think it is an important principle. But what it will look like in the years after 2023, I simply cannot say at this stage. However, I would like to maintain that culture is the foundation of our country, and that is why we must of course find a way to create a framework for cultural life which will enable it to continue to flourish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121143	But then I would like to ask: how can we contribute to greater predictability? How can the Minister contribute to this? For now I saw that a number of cultural institutions have sent an appeal to create spaces to develop culture in the future too. If, like the Minister, he recognizes that this is a problem with the lack of predictability, what can the Minister do to give it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121204	I fully recognise that this is a dilemma. In recent months, we have concluded a five-year media agreement that locks the economy there. We just made a five-year film deal last week that locks the economy there. And it is clear that there is a dilemma in how long into the future one can afford to lock the economy. Next year, we're gonna be offering a new radio channel and a new TV channel. The question is, how many years is that supposed to be? Radio 24-seven, who got FM 4 last time, got an 8-year period. Because it also takes time to get things going. So this is a completely real dilemma, sir. Jacob Mark travels there, and that's where we're gonna have to try to find the balance. There may be a financial crisis that suddenly means doing things differently. So I think this is a dilemma that we will never overcome as politicians, and it does not really matter what colour the government is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108121252	I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 13 November 2018. Let's take a break. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130011	It is 1 p.m. and the sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130051	Thank you. I would like to thank the Alternative and Enhedslisten for its motion for a resolution B 11 on school postponement. You suggest that before the school year 2018-19, the government makes a bill that allows parents to postpone their child's schooling by one year after consultation with day care and school, whose parents, day care and school consider it appropriate. The proposal is almost a repetition of the alternative resolution of the spring. The government still cannot support the motion for a resolution. Allow me to repeat that it is a misunderstanding that the rules were changed in 2008 with effect from August 2009, so parents lost the right to decide that their child should be put out of school. Because it has always been the municipal council that has made this decision, naturally in dialogue with the parents, and we in the government believe that this should continue to be the case. The 2009 rule change was that the compulsory education was extended from 9 to 10 years and that the nursery school thus became compulsory. Since the kindergarten class was previously voluntary, parents could choose whether their child should attend kindergarten classes themselves, but they could not choose whether their child should start in the first grade of the year the child reached the age of 7. If parents wanted to postpone their child's school start, i.e. start in first class, only the municipal council could approve this. When the kindergarten class became compulsory, it was then stated politically that the focus should not be so much on making children ready for school, but on making the school ready for children. Children can often do more than their parents think. Therefore, it is also good that there are skilled professionals around the child and parents, professionals who can guide the parents and assess the child's maturity. The vast majority of children are ready to start school the year of their 6th birthday, and they are ready for something new to happen. Many children even get bored lately in kindergarten, I know a few of them. Many kindergartens therefore also have special courses for the older children, so they are better prepared for the start of school. For those children who are not ready to start school, parents should engage in dialogue with the municipality. For children's school start is a local decision. It is clear that the current system is based on the assumption that there is a good and close dialogue between parents, municipalities, day-care facilities and schools. Parents should feel safe by sending their child to school, and they should feel that their concerns are taken seriously when they want school stays for their child. Because there will be families who need exposed school start-ups, for example. because the child was prematurely born, was born late in the year, or had some hard or perhaps traumatic experiences prior to school start. It is important for me to say that a concrete and individual assessment must be made at municipal level every time a decision is made to set up a child. As the rules are today, there will be different practices from municipality to municipality, and there may be good reasons for this. I believe that the rules in force that a child starts in school in the year of the child's 6th birthday are sensible. We need a school start date, and in 2008 it was set to be 6 years by the then VK government with the support of the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party and the then New Alliance. When we compare ourselves with other countries, a school start of 6 years is not early, and I think it is fine. If parents are to decide for themselves when their children start school, then we can risk an atomicized and individualized school system where there can be 2 to 3 years of age span in each class. I do not think this is in the interests of the class community. That is why the government cannot support the resolution. And I would like to thank once again the Alternative and Enhedslisten for having tabled the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130458	Thank you, Minister. There is, for the time being, an inscription for short remarks, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130506	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for the speech. It was, after all, one of the same things that we heard from the Minister's mouth last week at the conciliation meeting. Recycle is good, we like recycling in the alternative. As I said, thank you for your speech, which I think reflected what the Minister said a week ago, and I really would like to stress that this decision-making is not about us wanting to change the start of school. There is nowhere in this motion for a resolution. We do not want there to be a later school start for the children. We also think it is good that children in Denmark start school when they are 6 years old. It is all about the fact that for the children who start later because there are reasons for this, the decision to start later must lie with the parents instead of with the municipal council, as it does today. That's kind of just what this is all about. Who is it that makes the final decision and is allowed to say: we want to wait a year for those who have to wait a year, because that is not very many? So my question to the Minister is: why does the Minister think that decision lies better in the municipal council than at home with the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130608	Thank you very much. It is quite true that we have debated exactly the same thing in a consultation last week, and now we are discussing it again on the basis of exactly the same premises, and my position is exactly the same as last week, namely that it has always been the case that school start is a municipal decision where there are professionals and where parents should be listened to. And we think that is fine and an excellent balance that we do not intend to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130638	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130642	Thank you. We know it's been this way all along, so that's not what we're accusing here. We just want this motion for a resolution to do it differently than has always been done. That's kind of just what this is all about. So when the Minister says that she does not think it should be changed that the decision lies well with the municipal council, I would like to ask again: why does the Minister think that decision lies better with the municipal council than at home with the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130706	Just as I said in my speech, and as I also said in the conciliation procedure, it is so in a liberal and free society that even we liberal and free citizens also sign up in a framework, and there is school one of the institutions which is a framework one enters as a family and as a child, and there must of course be some deviations from that. There must be some way to deviate from that framework if you have a particular need for it. This can then be discussed locally, and we think that is a fine balance. But although I am a liberal, I am not in favour of an individualised school system in which we make individualised school courses for each child, because I actually believe that the class community is very good. It is a good forum to be in for the individual child, and it is very good that the class communities are composed, so most children are about the same age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130810	Right now there are three inscribed for short remarks, and the first of the three is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130818	Firstly, I would like to say that it is rather a game of saying that, in the past, parents did not have the right not to send their children to school either. I am so happy to have four children who have moved through primary school, and for all four of them it was so that when they reached nursery school, it was up to their father and their mother to decide whether to leave. It's not like that anymore, you've changed it. It's time to go. That's what happened when the kindergarten class was made compulsory. So it's gonna be a game with the words. One has changed the practice that in the past one could choose whether the child should be in kindergarten class, and one can no longer do so. I would like to hear from the Minister: does he not have any impression at all when we see from studies that half of the country's educational leaders say that 3 out of 20 children are going to school prematurely? Doesn't it seem like there's something wrong with the way you handle this out there in the municipal administrations when the executives think you're hitting next to 3 out of 20 times?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130925	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108130927	I don't think it's gonna be a game of words. That's how it was. The rules I am explaining here in my speech are absolutely correct and, if the rapporteur can demonstrate that this is incorrect, I am, of course, open to hearing it. But that was exactly how it was, that it changed the way that the nursery class became compulsory, and yes, the individual parent cannot opt out of it, but it did not mean that the individual parent himself planned when you wanted your child to start school. This was not the case, and it is, of course, the tale that has helped to be a premise both for the consultation and now for the resolution, and it is therefore of course important for me to describe what it was for a change that was made and that it was not a change in which the right of parents to decide for themselves the start of school was denied. So what was done was to establish that the kindergarten class became mandatory. That is what was done at the time, and we stand firm on that and we think that exceptions should still be decided locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131032	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131035	I note that the Minister attaches great importance to the fact that we should not have an excessive individualisation of our school system. I am very much in agreement with that. We're not having that. But now that the proposal provides for parents to decide after a dialogue with the kindergarten where their child goes, after a dialogue with the school where their child may have to leave, and on the basis of that dialogue they decide that they would like to postpone the child's school start, are the parents not the right ones? Or may we say that no, the competence of the parents does not dispute? However, when they make a decision on the basis of a thorough dialogue with school and kindergarten, we do not believe that we can leave it to parents to decide for themselves. Is that really the Minister's view of parental competence?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131131	This is such a rather curious debate, because I am a liberal minister and I am speaking here with a socialist and an alternativeist, and here it is I who, it can be said, stands on the value of the community and also the fact that, as a starting point, the individual subscribes to the community on a certain basis. So this is, of course, a rather curious debate, but we fully agree that parents should be consulted in cases where they believe that there is a need for school start-up and that a local dialogue is needed. We may disagree a little on the balance here, because, as I said, I believe that the balance is fine, which is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131214	The next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131217	The Minister is very concerned that parents should be free to decide what school their children should attend. But why can't parents decide when their children should start school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131233	That is because we are all only parents of our own children, and when we deliver our children to school, it may actually be quite difficult, because there you turn the child over to a community where that child, too, what to say, gets some duties. We do the same ourselves when we enroll our children in a school; whether it is a primary school or a free primary school, it is a community where you are also included under some conditions and have some duties. And I think that the opposition here may forget the duties and the terms of the community a little and say: Well now it is quite free, that is, now you can start when you want, when you are 7 years old or 8 years old or when you think you are. And I think that the balance is being pushed here, because there should be an opportunity to take care of the child who needs to get off to school and to have a local dialogue about it. I think that is very sensible. But I do not think it is good for an atomicized school system where you just, what to say, buy into things without also having a framework and a commitment. I do not think that is a good thing, and I think it is a good thing to have a few communities and a few frameworks in which we, as a free and authoritative individual, sign up. So it's a little funny dialogue here, where I think you're printing out some of the duties and communities that are also.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131357	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131401	But the Minister simply has to explain to me how the community is different, depending on whether a child starts when it is 6 years or 7 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131417	Well, that's because children and here we generally meet each other when they are about the same age, and then it creates a class community where you have the same premises, where you are in some stages of development at roughly the same level, where you go during puberty around the same time. And that class community is very fine and good, and I think that is actually worthy of preservation, because I think that class community is very good at raising free and authoritative citizens. And then you want, you can say, completely free to rip the individual out of it and say, "You have to, but we are atomizing it." And I don't think you should. I think we should also respect the fact that there is a class community. And then there are exceptions, and there must be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131506	Then I give the floor to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131510	In fact, I believe that the Minister is speaking against better knowledge right here. Because the Minister says that, as a starting point, you come into some stages, and then I have to understand that if you are going to follow those stages as a child, you have to start when you are 6 years old. There's actually a lot of research in this area that suggests that when we get to that childhood age where you start school, it's different how clear you are, and therefore there can also be different times that are appropriate for children if they're going to get properly into these stages of development. I just want to know if the Minister agrees with that, that is to say that there are actually studies that show that children are developing in different stages. Then I would like to hear: one problem right now is that the municipalities have a very different practice in relation to school stays. This means that in Viborg 2% are exposed, and I think that in West Himmerland 10% will be put out of school. Is the Minister prepared, then, to make some kind of guidance at least for the rules on when to be put out of school, so that parents have some form of legal certainty that is greater than the one they have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131610	Do I recognize that research? Yes, of course I do. But I have read a lot of research about children and their development, and that is how children develop in leaps. Now I read just recently that Einstein, for example, was a bit late when he started school. So it may well be that the child, who is a little insecure and is not quite ready when it gets to school, suddenly makes a huge leap and maybe overtakes the others. Therefore, it is not so simple, this, and therefore it is good that there is a rule that children start the year of their 6th birthday, and then there may be exceptions to it. But I do not think we should have such a society where all people are an exception, because that is not what freedom is all about. Freedom also means that you become a member of a community and are in it and then, by the way, when you grow up, have the opportunity to organise your life. So this whole atomized school system I just don't entirely agree with. I think it is important to take care of the children who have the need, but I think we should look at it as something that some children may need.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131722	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131723	Then I must assume that the Minister believes that we had a nuclear school system and that all children were an exception in 2009. For there it was the case that, as a starting point, one started at a certain time, but it was easier to get school stays because the kindergarten class was not mandatory. We can see that the numbers have plummeted. But I would really like to ask again: could the Minister be prepared to provide guidance for the municipalities so that the parents knew what was really needed? In other words, there are some municipalities that actually operate with savings proposals, where they say zero school delays, because then you can get a lot of money, while others say: we have a more lenient approach to that. Could one make some kind of ministerial approach that applies to all municipalities here without it binding them completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131810	Well, no, it wasn't the case in 2009, that you could get school stays. It wasn't. You could opt out of kindergarten, that's different. So we have to make that clear here. You couldn't just decide for yourself about your school stay, you couldn't go to kindergarten. So these are two very different things. You still had to start first class at a certain time, unless you made a local decision. So it's exactly the same, just in first grade, where it's now in kindergarten class, but you couldn't decide your own school start. Is there a need for more guidance? I find that hard to say. There are very large municipal differences. There are other areas, such as economic ones. When it comes to primary school, there are very, very large fluctuations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131855	The last for a brief comment, at least for the moment, is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131900	Thank you. After all, the Minister wants to look up as Minister for Freedom, and many times it becomes very bureaucratic instead. This, in my opinion, is one of the examples. I would like to ask the Minister what is the most freedom: is it the most freedom that parents have the last power to decide when to go to school, or is it the municipalities that have to decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131926	Thank you. I've never called myself Minister of Liberty. It's the folklore teachers' magazine that called me that. Freedom is followed by responsibility. It is a basic liberal idea that freedom and responsibility go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131943	The questioner for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108131945	That wasn't really an answer. The minister talks a lot about responsibility and community when it is the municipality that has to decide this. So I would like to ask: if it is the case that you are parents and want to put your child in a free school or private school, should you be allowed to have the decision-making power yourself, as to when to start school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132009	It is clear that there are some differences between the free primary and primary schools. On the whole, we in the government have proposed these autonomous schools, which are in fact an opportunity to bring the primary school closer to the free schools, and this has been rejected blankly in the Social Democratic Party. There are some major differences in the rules for primary and free primary schools, and we would very much like to try out how the primary schools can become more freer on a wide range of grounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132040	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments at the moment, so I shall start with the rapporteur's report itself. The first speaker is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132055	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for putting this motion for a resolution on school postponement on today's agenda. This is an agenda that we in the Social Democratic Party share, and we are in favour of the idea of giving parents the decision-making power to postpone the child's school start. We think it is essential to listen to the parents. There are also different needs, which is why we naturally believe that this should be done in cooperation between day care institutions, parents, schools and municipalities, and yet we must give the last power to parents. We know that all children learn in very different ways, and therefore they must also be treated differently. This is true in relation to when the child is ready to go to school, and that applies in other areas. In some municipalities you have a rolling school start and you can then regulate when the child is ready to go to school. In other places you have fixed dates for when a child is going to school. We believe that there are many considerations to be taken in relation to postponing the start of the child's school 1 year. It is the case that some will be able to avoid having to change, and others will also be able to get better education for many years to come. It is the case that in some municipalities the rules are somewhat complicated, and therefore there are also some parents who cannot really make things up to a higher unit. Therefore, they may send their child to school one year earlier than they would otherwise have if it were the case that there was a better chance of having the last competence. In fact, we ourselves have put forward a proposal that is very similar to this one, namely our social project • School start when the child is ready, and in this we have also said that it is sensible to postpone the school start by 1 year and that you should have parental competence. We would very much like to discuss this with the municipalities, and so we would like to vote yellow to this proposal because we think it is important for the municipalities to come in before we take the firm decision on how we will do it. However, the possibility of postponing school start-ups can be crucial for some children and families to get better education. Nevertheless, we also want to consult the municipalities in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132325	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132330	I very much welcome the rapporteur's contribution. I would just like to hear: if, contrary to expectations, it is not possible to achieve a majority in favour of the proposal in this House, is it the view of the Social Democrats that a new majority in the Folketing can adopt this proposal without first having terminated the elementary school settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132352	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132353	So, it is, as the Minister said, of course a public school settlement, and we cannot cancel a settlement in the middle of the period, but we would like to create a majority for this; this is something that we have produced ourselves in our recent social project, and we have our chairman, who has talked a lot about the fact that we have a special focus on some boys who may benefit from a school stay. So we want to work with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and other parties who want to do this, but of course we stand by the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132425	There was no other brief comment from the author, so thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132435	Thank you. Today it is the case that the municipality, in consultation with the parents, decides whether a child should start a year later in school; the parents have no one-sided claim to it. The alternative and Enhedslisten will then turn it over, so it is the parents in consultation with the municipality who decide it, and they also believe that more and more children are not ready for it and that it is better for them to start later. I recognise the intention, and I have also read the resolution with interest, but I also think that the proposers are getting a little lost because in Denmark we do not have compulsory schooling but, as one of the few countries in the world, we have compulsory education and this compulsory education begins when the child is six years old. Parents remain responsible for the child; it is not the municipality, it is not the school. Parents can then choose to use their compulsory education by sending the child to school: a primary school or a free school; they can choose to teach the child themselves at home; they can choose to hire a teacher to do so, if they can afford it, as long as they fulfil the compulsory education obligation, and the children learn what we in Denmark have decided to learn. In other words, there's that freedom. If parents then choose to send their children to school, that means that it is the school in which the children have to be taught that takes over the duty of education from the parents, because the parents have chosen it, and of course it is also the school, and that means the municipality, which then sets out a framework for how it should be done. And the framework is such that you start in kindergarten class, it's 0th grade, earlier it was 1st grade, but now it's 0th grade. And if it turns out that the child is not mature for one reason or another, then it can have its school start a year, and it happens after consultation with relevant people, and it also happens after consultation with the parents. It is actually a good arrangement that we should be happy about. I really think that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are turning it around so that it becomes a rights-based discussion, that is, that parents have the right to it and that or that, even if they have a duty to education, but not compulsory schooling. Then I would just like to mention that the start of school in Denmark is not particularly early. In France, the children begin when they are 3 years old. I repeat: 3 years. They start in what corresponds to a kindergarten class in Denmark when they are 3 years old, and then they go 24 hours a week. When they turn 6, they start school, and there are quite different hours. In Finland they also have compulsory schooling, but not compulsory schooling, and the children start school when they are seven years old, but the year before there is compulsory kindergarten education, and parents themselves have to take care and decide how it should be done, but they have a duty to do so; in the vast majority of cases, of course, it is a kindergarten-type function they are assigned to. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would recommend that we vote against the proposal if and when it comes to the vote. Because there is the fine balance between the municipality, school and parents today that you can have the start of school postponed if the child is judged not to be mature. And precisely because we have this obligation to teach, which gives parents the freedom to assess where their child should go, we cannot, of course, go and say that this right must also apply to the municipality and the school, which is responsible for teaching precisely at school. That is why, although I acknowledge the intention, I think we are getting a little lost here. It has been forgotten that we only have compulsory education, that the parents are responsible for the child, but that they have the opportunity to leave the child to a school and the municipality, which then with the Folketing in the back has set a framework for how it should be done. And our framework is then that children begin when they are 6 or when they are 7 if it is that the school start is postponed and if there are good reasons for it. And, of course, most people get off to school if there are good reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132918	Thank you. There are two brief comments and the first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, Enhedslisten. Bullshit! The alternative. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20181108132926	Now, don't mix things up too much here, I guess. Thank you for the European review of when to start school in the other European countries. That is fine and completely irrelevant to this debate. I do not care when you start school in France or Finland. No one is trying to change the compulsory education or the time when to start school. I repeat: we have no intention of making any changes in relation to when to start school in Denmark. The only thing we ask the Minister and the rest of the Danish Parliament to do is: why are it not the parents who can ultimately decide that a child should have postponed his school start? There's nothing else in it than that. That's all it's about. So does the rapporteur recognise that it is good that we have a system in which a child, if he is not ready to start school at 6 years of age, can have his or her school start for a year? Does the rapporteur recognise that this is a good thing in itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133024	Yes, and that gives flexibility and freedom to give a child one more year to start school, and I actually think that the municipalities and schools manage well, and in the vast majority of cases it happens smoothly. What you want with this proposal is that you want to give parents a right to school, even if there is no compulsory schooling, and that is why I think you get a little lost and mix things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133057	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133059	It is not we who think that the children start early in school, but there is something in the studies that has been done that indicates that they start too early. There are a lot of kindergarten class managers and there are also parents who actually want their children to start later in school saying: We have too many children starting too soon; they are not ready for it. That's what we're dealing with. This is not because we think that children should start when they are seven years old. So the relevant question will then be, and it may be, that the rapporteur has just answered it: is that decision better with the municipal council than it is with the parents? Well, now we assume it's a good thing that you can postpone school start. Why is that decision better with the council than with the parents? That is what I simply cannot understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133140	Well, the parents have the opportunity to wait to send the children to school. They can teach them at home, they have that right, and they can assume that responsibility too. In the absence of compulsory schooling, it is the municipality that offers that the pupils can receive the teaching there. And in consultation with the parents you can then talk about whether the child should start a little later, and this often happens smoothly, and it also happens with the help of relevant parties. After all, it is not the municipal council that sits and decides what happens most often in the school where responsibility has been delegated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133222	Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133226	After all, it is difficult to disagree that we have to distinguish between compulsory education and compulsory education; I fully agree with that. However, does the rapporteur not agree that if parents then apply the right they have to teach themselves and thus fulfil the obligation to teach, then one of the parents will have to stay home for a year. And is this real freedom for the parents in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133301	It is true: it then requires parents to stay at home or to hire a teacher, and not everyone can do so. An alternative, of course, is that parents find a school where they can deal with it in a different way if it is that they encounter problems in the school that they want to have the child admitted to. I just have to say that, when there is no compulsory schooling, we cannot give parents the right that the alternative would like. I mean, it is a form of rights-based thinking that goes beyond duty and with which I do not agree. We have a duty to teach, and parents are responsible for fulfilling that obligation. They can then decide for themselves where it is to be fulfilled. There is the possibility that the children were sent to school, a primary school, and then of course it is the primary school with the municipality in the back that ultimately decides whether the child should have postponed school start, after consultation with the parents and after obtaining educational staff's assessments. I think that is actually a good and flexible and sensible arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133409	The questioner asks his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133411	Is it really reasonable if you want your child to go to a primary school and, after assessing and in consultation with professionals, you decide that your child is not ready for school, that you can only solve the problem of keeping the child at home if you are willing to give up a year's income from one of the parents? Does the rapporteur not agree that in many ways it is formal freedom, but in fact it is not real freedom for parents who want their children in primary school? For they are thus also cut off from the fact that the child can continue to attend kindergarten; they themselves have to solve the problem and are therefore facing a loss of income of hundreds of thousands of kroner. Is that real freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133501	No, it's not a real freedom. It's a formal freedom. That is absolutely right. But I just have to maintain that when parents send their child to school, there are some frameworks that need to be respected. You also expect the parents to tell their child: You have to behave, and you do what the school, the teachers and the headmaster tell you, and if you don't do it, then there's trouble! When you send your child to an institution, you also have to comply with the rules that exist, and these are the rules that we have adopted. If we suddenly start giving parents all these rights to which they do not actually have the right, because there is only compulsory education, then it is going to go away. Then it is no longer the community, then it is the extreme individualism that the Alternative and Enhedslisten actually advocate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133549	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108133558	Thank you to the Alternative and Enhedslisten for raising the debate on this important issue in the Chamber today by tabling this motion for a resolution, B 11. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution, as has already been said, will require the government to submit a legislative proposal which will allow parents, after consultation with day-to-day provision and school, to postpone a child's school start until the child reaches the age of seven. And yes, it is the case today that it is the municipalities that decide, in consultation with the parents, whether a child should be allowed to postpone the school start. In fact, when it comes to postponing our children's school start, I think it is really important that I stress that we make the right decisions and, for that matter, preferably the first time, because it is actually a decision that in some way affects the child and maybe even marks the child for the rest of his life. I actually think most of us can remember what it was like when we had to start school ourselves; what it was like when we had to have this relatively large school bag on our backs and perhaps at the same time had a little butterflies in our stomach, that is, the feeling it was when you were about to start in the big school. And there I have to say: of course there are many children who can be nervous and may be particularly nervous about leaving the more secure environments in kindergarten and entering an unknown territory in this way. That is why, of course, I think it is important and good that both parents themselves, but of course also the daily offers, prepare the children and also give the children an understanding of what it means to go to school. It is probably one of the things that I think is important that we should also get to the Chamber today, namely that fortunately a great deal has happened in this area alone for the last 10 years, when municipalities have introduced slipping schools in many places, which is perhaps precisely to ensure that some children who are not quite ready can be admitted a little later. In addition, I also think it is important that we say that the vast majority of kindergartens are doing a huge job today to make the children both safe and ready to start school. I have to say that I am absolutely convinced that the many competent professionals who are involved in these special decisions should there be a parent couple, for example. wishes that their child should start later • of course takes the talk with the parents and hopefully can also convince the parents why it is important that their child may start on time and that the child may not necessarily have the best of waiting 1 year. And I would say that for the sake of parents, of course, but not least for the sake of the children, it is really, really important that these very professionals are close and guide parents to make the right decision with the professionals. I have to say that I think it is very, very far along the way that is working without a problem today. And I would say that if it is the case that there are negative developments over the next few years, then I will also be prepared to look at this again, but as it is today, I do believe that the legislation is working. And that's why I don't think there's any reason for us to change it. It also means that the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134008	Thank you. Right now three brief remarks have been made, and the first is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134015	In other words, I agree with the rapporteur that it is very sensible that there should be close dialogue between parents, school and kindergarten, and I do not think it would be a good system if the decision could be taken without dialogue with professionals. I think it is very reassuring to have such a dialogue. But where does the rapporteur think things are going wrong? Now that it is, half of it is just barely 47 percent. So, I agree with the rapporteur that it is mostly going well, but 3 out of 20 are many anyway; it is in 15%. of all cases that the municipalities seem to have made a mistake in imposing on parents that their child should start early. Isn't there something wrong? And where does it go wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134122	Well, I won't deny that there are places around the country where it can be done better. And, like some of the points made by the Minister, I do not deny that it may be that we should look at whether there are places where we might be able to provide some kind of guidance, so that it will also be better where it lags. But having said that, I do believe that the motion for a resolution tabled here says that the municipalities are not good enough for this, that only parents can make these decisions. I feel this way: let us now follow developments. And if, as I said before, it turns out that the whole, completely wrong way is going, then I certainly think that we should take it up, including in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134217	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134219	I would like to know whether the rapporteur can at least have some of the concerns I have about how much the economy is involved. Thus, we have seen how, in relation to the very small, there was a general broad perception that it was good to go to kindergarten when you were 3 years old, but then it suddenly turned out that as the municipalities' economy was pressed, the professional assessment changed to 2 years and 10 months and the year after to 2 years and 8 months; then suddenly there was a new professional assessment. When there are municipalities which have budgeted for the fact that in two years' time there will be zero children who will have school stays, does the rapporteur not agree that there is something that suggests that there is such a heavy financial pressure on this system that it is, so to speak, pushing many municipalities to consciously or unconsciously make decisions that are financially dictated and therefore do not meet the child's best interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134316	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134319	I would say that I do not have the same concerns as Enhedslisten's rapporteur with regard to the economy, but I have some other concerns about implementing this proposal. During the almost 19 years I worked with this area, there were also parents who, to put it bluntly, were not entirely able to make the decision about their children's school start. And I guess I'd have some worries there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134350	The next brief remark is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134354	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. In fact, I recognise the rapporteur's arguments. So, I do not agree with it, but I can easily understand what the rapporteur is suggesting that she actually thinks that it is working well, as it is today, so that the arguments from this point of view are acknowledged. But, first of all, we do not think that parents should be completely alone in making that decision. We write in the motion for a resolution that this should be done after consultation with both school and day care. It's just to specify it. Secondly, our concern comes from the fact that others have this concern. In other words, the school and parents association, which represents parents of school children, believes that it is a problem that sometimes there are parents who experience that they, among other things, experience that they have a lot of problems. For economic reasons, when they ask for a school stay, they get a no. And then there's this DEA study, which also points out that kindergarten managers think it's a problem. So does the rapporteur not also recognise that there are some key and important players who are out to say that it is actually a problem that parents cannot make this decision in the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134500	Yeah, well, I definitely recognize that some studies have been done on this. But I would also like to say that perhaps some other studies could also be carried out which could say the opposite. So let us now think out loud and imagine that we implemented the Alternative and the Enhedslisten resolution. Then I would say that some studies could easily be carried out which showed that there were some parents who absolutely wanted their child to wait, but that it was actually not for the child. So I will almost put my head on the block, in that we could also find examples that it did not actually serve the child's best interests, but that it was the parents who simply cut through and said: we want our child to wait at all costs 1 year, even though the professionals may say otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134556	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134600	After all, no one can guarantee that it would not happen. I cannot, of course, as the author of the motion. If it were for this proposal to be adopted, would it never happen that some parents would force something that was not for the benefit of their own child? I don't think we can guarantee it. However, as I know the Danish parents, I would think that it would be a few of them. So it is also more that with the confidence that the Danish parents consult and listen to the advice they receive from the professional staff. That's just what we think gives a greater legitimacy to this decision. So I think we just disagree about who it really is that best knows the individual child and the best interests of the individual child. So that's probably more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134641	Does that give rise to a reply from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134643	I can comment on it in that way that I am also absolutely sure that by far, of course, most parents clearly know for themselves what is best for their own children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134655	The last brief remark is Mr Beazley's report. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134659	I am surprised that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur thinks it is working and that the rapporteur thinks it is working. And I would like to know: why does the rapporteur think so? Where did the rapporteur come from? All organisations that like represent people who work with this believe that the rules need to be changed. We talk School and Parents, we talk the teachers, we talk the educators, we talk the bosses. They've been out saying, "Change the rules because they don't work." In addition, we have some figures that show that there are huge municipal differences. 10% in a municipality, 2%. in another because some use it as a means of saving. And in addition, we have the development from the time the rules were changed, which shows that the number has plummeted since the rules were changed. So what is it that makes the rapporteur say that it works well enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134753	That, among other things. Makes me say it is actually two things. First of all, I personally have not received any inquiries about this problem at all. Secondly, I also think that we should continue to insist that there must also be guidelines for taking part in a community, that is, a community of schools. In fact, I think that these are some of the things that may perhaps be forgotten in the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. I mean, what are the drawbacks if you give more freedom in total to the parents? What, then, can be the drawbacks of this? In fact, I think that is a little important when we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134835	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134837	[Sound emission]... has nothing to do with whether the rules work or not. It's politics and what you mean. So what the rapporteur is basing his thesis on the fact that the rules are working is that the rapporteur has not received any personal representations. I would like to promise the rapporteur that, if the rapporteur asks me, I will get all the personal inquiries that the rapporteur would like. And that then leads me to the next question: the rapporteur says that the rapporteur would like to look at the rules if there is a negative development. If the developments I have just described are not negative, what does it take for a development to be negative in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134913	It is true that the SF's rapporteur refers to some studies, and I would like to acknowledge that. That's fair enough. But from there, to say that it is not working today, I do not agree with the rapporteur. And that may be because we have different political positions. However, I do not believe that there is any evidence that the law we have today needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, and the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr Beazley. Jacob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108134951	Thank you. It is a landmark event in a child's life when it has to leave the familiar and fortunately safe everyday life in kindergarten. The child must say goodbye to the well-known adults and very many comrades in kindergarten. It is, so to speak, forced to let go of the close relationships that are so crucial to the child's thriving and developing. It may be difficult, but fortunately it is also really exciting to have to start school with everything it involves with new experiences and changes, both when it comes to the content of everyday activities and when it comes to making new friends and developing close relationships with new and exciting adults. If that is not the case, the shift from kindergarten to school can be incredibly difficult. It can give a really bad start to school, and it can affect the child, not only in its relationship with the school, but also in its entire development in the broadest sense. Therefore, it is that Enhedslisten believes it is so incredibly important that we have a fairly flexible framework for children's school start-ups, so that it is possible to take into account the fact that children are evolving differently and therefore, by their very nature, not all are ready for school at the same time. That is why we believe that there should be a framework that allows for a thorough dialogue between parents, day care institutions and school. And when the dialogue has been there, it is ultimately possible for parents to decide for themselves to postpone school start. This is the way it has already emerged from today's discussion. We note that there are very large differences in local practice. And there are probably not many who, with their hands on their hearts, are in doubt that the economy plays a completely crucial role in the position of many municipalities. At least it seems to be very little likely that it should be based solely on professional assessments, when one municipality has four to five times more school trips than the other, and when we can at the same time see that about half of the country's school managers estimate that three out of twenty school starters were not actually ready when they started in the nursery class. I think that, in this context, we have to say that the economy is quite unfairly taken over in relation to the professional assessment of what is best for the child. If that is the case, it is unfortunately because, from a short-term point of view at least, there is a great deal of money to be saved for the municipalities. It is the case that the cost of having a child in the nursery class is significantly lower than the cost of a nursery place, and that is why we have also seen very spare municipalities set it up as a budget condition, where it is predicted that in two years' time there is no longer any need to allocate money to postpone the school start of children. There you can read in the municipality's budget figures that now all children will be ready for school. There is simply something wrong with the way in which the area is managed. When we dealt with a similar proposal in the last parliamentary year, when it was presented by the Alternative alone, several rapporteurs expressed sympathy for the proposal, as we have seen today, but refused to support it because it was important that a decision on school postponement was taken in a close dialogue between parents, day-offers and school. We supported the proposal back then. We were not co-sponsors, but I think that the arguments put forward by a number of rapporteurs at the time were factual and proper, so it is very reasonable that we should have the dialogue. I think parents should have a very high degree of self-determination, but it is reasonable that in such an important decision they have an obligation to consult management and teaching staff in kindergarten and with school management. That's common sense. On the other hand, and that is the whole point of the proposal: where we want the balance to be changed is when that dialogue has been there. Then it should not be up to the administration to make the decision. Then it must be a decision made by the individual parents. I am pleased that today's dialogue has already shown that there is increasing support for the proposal. It might sound as if the hope that we will get it adopted in this House has been somewhat diminished after I have heard the first speeches here. On the other hand, I hope that when we have had a parliamentary election, a majority will be able to be formed to ensure that it is no longer the economy that must be dictating, but that it is the professional judgement that determines what advice is given to parents and that, in the end, parents have the right to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108135519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108135530	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution here, not as far as the sender is concerned, but as far as content is concerned, is essentially the re-submission of an earlier resolution, which was therefore tabled by the alternative. The alternative rapporteur has already said that recycling is a good thing, so I would like to agree with that and re-use some of the comments that I made last time. The framework for our school system will be defined per year. tradition in some very broad settlements in which the current governing parties and the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, Radicals and SF have a tradition of participating. After all, the proposal does a little break with that pattern, because the motion for a resolution formally states that Parliament must instruct the government to implement the proposal, but it is actually something else that says. It says, of course, that the two parties outside the normal conciliation circle require the conciliation circle to do what the Alternative and Enhedslisten say. And that is, of course, the expression of a new political culture. But as a representative of classical political culture, I would like to say that it also has some good things to do with it. I think it might be possible to consider joining the conciliation circles that exist and then influencing things along those lines. I think there's more coming out of that. So much for recycling. I would also like to say some things that are not recycled. I think it is important to recognise the importance of institutions and I think that, in general, there is too little attention in the political debate to those institutions. The institution in which we are now, in other words the Folketing, is, after all, a very important institution which helps to ensure law and order, the freedom of the citizens, a large number of things that the vast majority of people think are crucial. But primary school is also a very important institution. After all, it has a tradition of creating a certain kind of teaching communities, and the real meaning of primary school is to create very, very strong learning communities. But one should not be blind to the fact that the primary school also has some side effects which are in some way very beneficial, because it also creates some human communities during the years spent in primary school. Even though you have come in my old age, there are many of my classmates I still have something to do with, and I remember happily back at the time we spent together. So in primary school you learn to work together with some material, and as a side effect you learn to do things with others. That is why I also see primary school as an institution which makes an enormously important contribution to combating narcissism, which is a predominant feature of many children and which is not a good thing. It may also combat parents' narcissism, which is perhaps not the right word, but that is, the parents' excessive desire to see their child as something very special, and it fights some form of consumerism among citizens in relation to our institutions. And that is not because, in my view, there is something wrong with consumption when it is going on in a market, but I think that consumerism with regard to institutions and with regard to binding communities is just a bad thing. In fact, I agree with Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen's comments on compulsory education and compulsory schooling. It was a speech with a strong message that I thought was very good and that goes beyond everyday politics. So, for some formal reasons as well as some substantive reasons, LA cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140001	Thank you. There are two short comments to be made, and the first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140008	Thank you. In relation to the formal reasons, I could re-use my question from the last, but I will not do that, because you can read this in the old resolution on the Danish Parliament's website. However, I would like to ask a question about the content which the rapporteur has just mentioned here. If we are now talking about maternity leave for men and women, who should decide who should take maternity leave at home with a family, according to the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140034	Then I give the floor to the rapporteur, but I would just like to say that we must take care of our questions in relation to their being within the scope of the proposal we are dealing with. But it is the rapporteur who chooses to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140047	Well, I would like to answer what is our precise policy, and our precise policy is that it is the parents who have to make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140055	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140058	Fine, because then, of course, the context will now come to this motion for a resolution. Why, then, is it the family, the most local one, that we can get near the minister, who keeps talking about the local decisions that are the right ones to make such a decision, where they say that the state should not interfere, that is, how one distributes one's maternity leave, but that the state, in this case the municipalities, should be allowed to interfere in whether one's child should have the opportunity to put off school if there are good reasons for doing so and, moreover, after consultation with both educators and teachers? Why is there a difference between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140137	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier's question saddens me because it once again emphasizes to me how bad a teacher I am. I have devoted a great deal of time to talking about the importance of institutions, and I have failed to do so. For that is the balance between the freedom that parents must naturally have and the need to have strong institutions that make me mean what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140207	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140211	We have quite rightly had the discussion that the rapporteur raises before. I have to say that I could be a little bit annoyed that it is almost illegitimacy to make proposals in the Folketing when you are not in a conciliation circle. I hope that the rapporteur recognises that it can be good for dialogue to be conducted not only in conciliation circles but also here in Parliament. Otherwise, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has heard the same thing as I have, namely that from the time we dealt with it in the Folketing a year ago, until we deal with it today, it has happened that where we could say a year ago that it was doubtful that such a proposal could gain support after a parliamentary election, it seems today that we have a united opposition that has a will to change legislation after a parliamentary election. Perhaps that is not what the rapporteur wants, but would the rapporteur not acknowledge that the debate could have played an important role in shaping policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140327	Well, I rarely doubt the opposition's determination to make our education system worse. I am also struggling with this during the conciliation meetings, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj does not participate in. It may well be that there is a majority to undermine our institutions, honorable institutions, which go back to 1814, but I hope and believe that the citizens are more sensible than they can see that strong, good institutions are a very important part of our social model and of the freedoms we enjoy and the good everyday life that most Danes have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140419	The questioner does not wish to speak for another brief comment, so that was the end of the brief remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is from the Radical Left, and I think that is Mrs Lotte Rod instead of Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140444	Who is to decide whether a 6-year-old child should start in school • the municipality or the parents? Of course, the parents do. I would like to say, of course, because I do not understand at all that this could give rise to a debate at all. I don't understand why the government can be against giving the parents that opportunity. I'm not just saying that to mess with you. I'm saying that because it doesn't actually make any sense to me. That is why I have also tried to think about what it might be that is why the government is against it. Somehow I feel that I would best understand it if it were about money, so that the government thinks that if you give parents the right to decide that children can stay for one more year in kindergarten, then the municipalities will probably come and say that they have to have some payment for it, and the government will not spend money on that. They'd rather spend the money on something else. I'd understand that somewhere. But the Minister for Education says very clearly that it is not about money. The minister is against giving the parents this right because she thinks it is wrong for children to come to school later. She thinks it's a break with the community. She thinks it's a nuclearization, an individualization of the whole school. Well, what we're talking about is whether kids go to school when they're 6 years old or when they're 7 years old. In fact, I think that the view of children advocated by the Minister not only lacks an understanding of the children's communities that are in our kindergarten but, in fact, also runs counter to the view of children that we have just agreed on in broad terms here in the Danish Parliament. I would therefore like to read aloud from the text on our children's vision and I quote: "Children's view in Danish daily offers is based on the fact that being a child has a value in itself. Therefore, Danish daily offers protect the right of children to be children, to be different and to develop at different paces. ▪ So, children have the right to evolve at different paces. Therefore, throughout this talk about institutions, I want to say that it is actually a right for children in Denmark in our institutions that they should not be the same, but that they can develop differently. It's normal, actually. That is why we in the Radical Left will continue to work to ensure that we really take this out of primary school, because we do not really think it belongs in primary school. I think it would be good if children had the right to stay one more year in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches, and the next is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108140805	Thank you. We are once again discussing whether children and their parents should be better placed to make the choice that the child should be an extra year in kindergarten. We discussed this in the Parliamentary Assembly just over a year ago, we discussed it at a conciliation meeting last week, and we discussed it in the conciliation circle, and the positive thing is that more and more people are backing up the idea of giving children a better opportunity to develop at their own pace now that the opposition as a whole is saying that we must provide better opportunities for school stays. Why is it that we care so much about this? It is because we can see that there are some children in Denmark who are being pressured more than they have been before. They come earlier from crèche to kindergarten in the municipalities because there is money to pick up, and if you look at the completely cold figures, those who are not lying from the Ministry of Education, where everything is truth, we can see that children are also being pressured significantly faster in school now than they did just 5 years ago. In 2009, the law was changed. The kindergarten class was made compulsory that since then the number of children who have had school stays has plummeted. In many municipalities we talk about 50%, and when I got these figures, I immediately told SF's press department: Hurry up to contact all the municipalities and all the local daily newspapers, because these figures are crazy. They show that virtually all municipalities have fewer children who have the right to have an extra year in kindergarten, and I find that worrying. Then we started diving into what's really going on in those municipalities. Why is it that there has been a fall? In some municipalities you could see that they actually started to make up for savings, that they specifically wrote into their savings catalogues for the coming year and for the coming years, that you could pick up millions of kroner by sending the children more quickly to primary school, because then there was money picking up. Yes, there was even a municipality we found where they said they had a decision that nobody should be put out of school. Then there isn't much about what's good for the kids anymore. Then there is much to be said about what is good for the budget in the municipality concerned. And I wonder whether that is why we are now seeing that the figure has plummeted in virtually all municipalities? What it has done, too, is that there is a huge difference between children and how many children are put out of school. In the City of Viborg, which is one of the fewest people to be put out of school, I think that it is 2% that will be postponed, where in the municipality of Vesthimmerland, if I am not mistaken, it is 10%. This means that it is where you grow up that determines whether you can go for an extra year in kindergarten. I think that's wrong too. So I really think that we should soon agree in this Parliament that when we do things when we want to do something for children, when we want to change school policy or child policy, it is about giving children a better child life and not about constantly saving and strengthening the economy. That is why we have proposed this amendment to the law. That is why we would like the law to be revised so that parents and educators can decide in consultation that the child can go an extra year. The Minister believes that this is a complete atomisation. Some believe that this is a breach of the community, and some believe that parents cannot live up to their responsibilities. Let me just say: we must no longer go back to 2008 and the time before that, where it actually worked well. I didn't hear any outcry. So where does it leave the SF? Well, it seems to us, where we were last year, that we still want to have the law that we are in a public school settlement, and that means that in order to change things in primary school because of the unwritten rules that are in the Folketing, we must all agree in the conciliation circle. I would also like to say before I say that we are now voting against this and trying to take the fight in the conciliation circle, that I am actually going to check whether we are now bound by the conciliation agreement on this, because I am a little surprised that when it comes to forcing children to go to school for an extra year because they do not have linguistic knowledge because they go up to a stop or language test, or what we call it, and fail, one can well decide in a minority of the conciliation circle to change the rules. Then it is not all parties that need to be involved, but when it comes to school postponement, the fact that they have to have the extra year in kindergarten, then it is conciliation break, then it is out of the conciliation circle if you vote for it. Fortunately, we have a consultation on this so that we can learn more about what the SF really can and cannot do when you are bound by a settlement. And I'd say I'm very fond of conciliation. I believe that the culture of conciliation is healthy for Christiansborg. There just has to be equal rules for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108141306	Thank you, too, and there are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108141319	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for raising the proposal so that we will sort of have it reversed again. When a child is to start school, it is important for us that there is a good dialogue between parents and professional staff in day-to-day offers and in school about the child's development and maturity. It is important for us that parents are safe about it when their child starts school and that there is a good dialogue about the start of school so that they can be confident that the concerns they have about it are taken seriously. We also believe that the assessment of a child's school start should be individual and, of course, based on the child's maturity and development. The current rules support that parents and staff should have this dialogue on the child's development and maturity. We think this is a good balance between both the parents' own assessment of their child and also the professional assessment of the child. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108141449	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108141506	Thank you so much. I would like to start by thanking the Danish Parliament for this debate, and also thank the Minister for his reply and all the rapporteurs for the speeches. In the end, we are also talking about whose property is the child? Who really should be the one who has the right to decide something on behalf of his child until that child is 18 years old? Of course, it's the parents. That's the way it is. That's what we've chosen in this society. I think that this debate, just like last week's conciliation, has moved to something that is not worthy of me, if I am to be quite honest, and it is about the fact that I think that both the Minister's reply and that of Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Henrik Dahl, who has now left the Parliamentary Chamber, has been primarily accusing the proposers, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, but also the other parties who have expressed sympathy for the proposal, of the fact that we would atomicise the school system, that we do not want the community, that we want everything to be a great ensemble of individuals, and that we do not want the common obligations and those, you might say, common institutions and the strength that lie within them, such as the United Nations. elementary school. The Minister said that it should not be entirely free to tear the individual out of the community, and she also said: I disagree with an atomicized school system and there must be freedom and there must be responsibility. Then I just feel that yes, but let us try to deal with what we are proposing in this motion for a resolution. We are proposing to create the very best conditions for the community in primary and lower secondary schools. That's exactly what this is about. After all, this is about hearing from parents and from school or special kindergarten leaders that there are some children who start out in kindergarten and who are not ready for it and who, firstly, may cause trouble in the class and in this way find it difficult to join the community, but who, secondly, feel really bad themselves because they are not ready to go to school. So, for whose best is it that there are kids starting school who aren't ready for it? It is not for the good of the child, nor for the good of the community, nor for the good of the parents, nor for the good of the teachers. So this is precisely about ensuring the very best conditions for our schools to work and for our children to thrive. So I think that the thing about pulling it up to an ideological battle, which is all of a sudden about liberals being the defenders of the community, and the rest of us talking against the community, is simply not worthy. I do not think it is worthy of the children who are actually standing and getting stuck when their parents have considered that they should wait a year to attend school, but that the municipal councils say no for what reasons they may now do so. But the assumptions are that there are financial reasons in some places, and I do not think that is wrong when we have heard these comparisons of municipalities and how much they have set aside in their budgets for a delayed school start. I would also like to say something in relation to the arguments put forward on the one hand for the strength of the community in primary school and, on the other hand, for the strength of the community in primary school. After all, Jacob Mark was talking about as a party, as a minister, going in and making stop tests, language tests which so separate the children at school, because that is what it is doing. If there's anything that these language tests do, then it's time to go in and say, "You're not good enough to be part of our community, go ahead, you're gonna have to go back to class." How on earth can this strengthen the community? So I think that the argument put forward by the Minister is simply not rigorous in relation to what this resolution is really about. By the way, I think that it was Mrs Annette Lind who had a really interesting question that I wrote down, and I thought that we had not asked that at all in this process, and that is: why is it actually possible to choose that one's child should start in free schools when it is 7 years, and not in primary school? What on earth is the political, professional, educational explanation for this? We may have to ask the Minister the question, but I really think it is a very, very good question, so thank you for that. But I think I would like to take this opportunity up here to remind all of us of what we are actually talking about. We're talking about kids, that's it. We are talking about children, little people that many of us in here have some of, small or big, and who know what it means for a child to thrive in his school. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about children who come home with stomach pain because they simply do not like going to school. They don't like it, or maybe they're just not mature enough. We talk about children who sometimes pee in their pants when they start school again or when they start school after kindergarten because they are simply not ready for the shift. I talked to Elisha Rimpler from BUPL about this on Monday, and she said it so clearly. She said that there are some children who are simply not ready for that transition, so they go back to some, you might say, inappropriate habits. Among other things: They start peeing in their pants. They get stomach ache, they just don't thrive. These are kids we're talking about. That is all this resolution is about, in other words, giving children the best conditions for good education. It is not about ideologies and freedom and community and atomized school beings. So I would like us to keep this debate at the level where it belongs. It is so concrete that the only thing we ask for is when there are some concerns, either among educators, teachers or parents, that give rise to a debate about the individual child in kindergarten, with parents, in PPR, for that matter, or in the coming school, that you saw just at the end of the obviously necessary dialogue, which must be with all these professionals, say to the parents: This is our recommendation, but of course it is you who decide. That is all we are asking for, and we do not think it is going to change basically at primary school. Of course it does not, but it just means that as parents, if you can really feel inside your stomach, that your child is not ready, and if the administration does not agree, you may have the opportunity to say: we would like that anyway. And who on earth is hurt by starting a year later in school? So this isn't about not wanting the community. This is about us actually wanting to give these kids the best school life ever. In conclusion, I would just like to make a formal comment on the whole debate on whether, as a party outside a conciliation group, a motion for a resolution can be tabled, for example. in the field of primary school, where there is a conciliation circle, and now Mr. Henrik Dahl left the Assembly Hall, or he hasn't, he's there. Who in the world has decided that this is a democratic injustice? In other words, because I was thinking about the fact that if there are elements in the area in which one disagrees, one joins the conciliation circle because that is the only way to lift and raise debates on, for example. If you do not agree with the conciliation circle, you cannot raise a debate, so you cannot ask questions in the Folketing, do you not make a suggestion in the Folketing that we might be able to do this in a different way? If we are talking about degrees of democracy, it is at least my understanding that the latter, that is to say, either you agree with and then you can make proposals, or you do not agree, and then you cannot make proposals, because it is not very democratic at all. One might ask oneself whether the entry of the Liberal Alliance into the public school circle in this way came from anything other than the accession of a government. But I do not recall that the Liberal Alliance, before sitting in the public school circle, did not speak critically about the primary school area, among other things. the national tests. So it's just to encourage understanding, in terms of what can be called good or bad formalities in relation to such a thing as to table a resolution like what we have today. I think I'm gonna stop here. I am very pleased that there are so many rapporteurs who have expressed a willingness for us to continue working on this. We'd like to try to get to the finish line. We can do it in many ways, but we are not done working for it either. Maybe it's like sir. Jakob Silverhøj said that we have to move on the other side of a choice before it becomes a reality, but there is not much time for that either. So in that way there is hope ahead. But thank you very much for the good debate in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108142417	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108142433	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 November 2018. I'll give you a few seconds to make our new rules apply to those of you who haven't tried it before in a query debate, and you get up in the front row, you've got the pressure out on your own desk and pressed into the desk you're sitting on now. So I won't start before you're ready. I would also like to inform you that you have the opportunity to have one minute's reply when the Minister has spoken, and since there are two ministers on, we take one minister at a time and then the minute's replies and then the next minister and the minute's replies. It is just that everyone, like everyone, knows the Rules of Procedure as to how we are going to start the sitting here. You're ready. Thank you. We shall begin with a statement of reasons for the question, and that is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108142608	Thank you. The question is: What can the government say about the impact of the re-priority contribution, which annually obliges state educational institutions to save 2%, including the impact on institutions' ability to continue to provide good education, ensure a sufficient number of lessons, develop a good study environment and work with students' well-being? When we raise this question, of course it's because we're worried. As recently as today there have been reports from various high schools around the country that they have to make mass redundancies of their teachers. We hear about high schools and other education which are threatened by their existence, especially if they are located in the outermost regions. We hear about higher education where there are fewer hours and where there is less time for guidance and less time for feedback. Much of that I want to talk about in my own speech, but it's just to say why we should have this debate. Now we could see that on Tuesday the government agreed that the re-priority contribution to vocational training would be abolished, probably in recognition of the fact that it is a really stupid idea to have a re-priority contribution. So now we want to learn more about: why should we then have a re-priority contribution to the other education programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108142745	Thank you. I can see that the first minister to speak is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108142753	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the question. It is important for me to make it clear that, with this government, we are both ensuring good schools and education and, at the same time, we are pursuing an economic policy in which we are using taxpayers' money responsibly. In other words, we take on what is typically a civil duty: to be adults. Denmark has an extremely high tax burden, and we are in the absolute top of countries in the world that bind citizens' money through tax payments. In addition, it is a fact that the SR government had gone all the way to the limits of economic policy. It left an economy without a safety margin to the budget law deficit limit. One had to deal with this and take responsibility for it. Therefore, in 2016, the V government introduced the re-priority contribution in the field of education, education and culture, which we in the VLAK government have continued. It was sensible and responsible to introduce the re-priority contribution in the given situation when V took over government responsibility. The re-prioritisation contribution is one way to ensure an ongoing focus on efficiency and achievement of productivity improvements. At the same time, they release money that can be used where the need is greatest. I can, for example, here. • the creation of the new preparatory initial training, the 'fgu', which gives a large group of young people a better path to education and jobs. However, the government also recognises that the re-prioritisation contribution can hit disproportionately hard in those areas where there are already challenges with the search. Therefore, we have entered into an agreement with Dansk Folkeparti to cancel the change of priority contribution to the vocational education and training programmes from 2019 onwards. It may also be that other areas of education require other very special measures. I have noted, for example, that there is a desire to look at the conditions of outskirts gymnasiums challenged by low search, and I agree that this may prove relevant in the longer term. The Ministry will therefore follow this area closely to consider the need for action. We spend a lot of money on education, and historically many young people take an education. In 2019, EUR 18.2 billion has been allocated. kr. for upper secondary education, 15.7 billion. kr. for higher education and EUR 20.8 billion for higher education. kr. to the SU, of which 5,1 billion. kr. to SU in upper secondary education. In addition, the municipalities spend about 42 billion. kr. in the public schools. This amount has remained virtually unchanged since 2014 and is stable even further back. During the same period, the number of pupils in the primary school has fallen, among other things. Because of smaller vintages. The total cost of a student in primary school has thus increased from 2014 to 2017. It is the municipalities that set the consumption for the primary school, and it varies greatly as to how priority is given. For example, in Odense and Fredericia you use approx. 69,000 kr. per student. Both municipalities are therefore well below the national average of approx. 75,000 kroner. per They are also led by social democrats. However, I would like to take immediate action to defend them, because it is the case that there is not necessarily any link between the amount of money spent at the local primary school and the level of professional achievement of the schools. Overall, we use everything approx. 10% of the total public expenditure on education. The re-prioritisation contribution is a tool that can contribute to a more efficient public sector, and it forces us to think about how we will get more quality for the many tax dollars that hard-working citizens in this country put in the public purse. I recognise that efficiency is not an easy task, but it can be done. Anyone who has had a management role in improving the efficiency of private or public services knows how difficult it is. But it is also a condition in both sectors that managers must take on. It cannot always go in the direction of more money, because then the economy will overturn at some point. From 2022 the money will be in the sector, but it will be politicians who give priority to the challenges to be addressed. The government wants all children and young people to receive a high-quality education. We must therefore keep a watchful eye on developments and we must work constantly to ensure that our schools and educational institutions deliver good education, that the students thrive and that there are good study environments. We have that focus in the government to a large extent. We have carried out some important reforms, among others. the reform of secondary education and the reform of the preparatory area. We have presented a proposal to get even more young people to choose vocational training and to implement it. And most recently, as I mentioned before, we have reached an agreement with DF to cancel the re-prioritisation contribution on vocational education and training from 2019 onwards. The government has also presented an initiative in the field of primary school with a focus on professionalism, education and freedom. Both games are currently negotiating the government. Let me conclude by repeating that we have strong and healthy schools and education in Denmark and that it is and remains one of the government's most important areas of action. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143252	Thank you. Then we will run a round of one-minute questions for the rapporteurs who want it and one-minute answers, and there are three rapporteurs who wanted it to be. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143308	I have taken a few examples from reality, because what exactly does government policy mean? And for us to agree on the figures, I have chosen to use the figures that come from the Minister's own ministry. It is a table which has been issued in response to question 182. If you look at that table, you'll see that some of these high schools in rural areas, for example. Morsø Gymnasium will save 13.4 million. kr. for the period 2016-2021. You split up per year. student, that means that every year high school saves DKK 10,900. per student in 2021. Then we can move on to South Zealand, Vordingborg Gymnasium, where there must be a total saving of 21.5 million. kr. during the period. This corresponds to an annual saving of DKK 9,700. per student in 2021. Here comes my question: Does the Minister, who is the Minister of Education, not the Minister of Education, think that it will give a worse or better education in these colleges, that you will save about 10,000 kroner. per student a year? And I would also like to know whether the Minister thinks it will be better or easier to run high schools in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143419	Yes, please! Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143423	Well, it's always easier to have a lot of money; it's nice to have good, big budgets and many students. That's the way it is, if you're the principal, then of course you want a good budget and a lot of students. It is difficult to make it more efficient, I do not deny it in any way, but every government takes red-and-blue decisions every once in a while to review. So did S when they were in government last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143453	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143458	Thanks for the speech. This morning I woke up to what I thought was a little sad news and it's never nice to wake up to bad news. This one was really bad, I think, because it was another consequence of the savings that the government has made in the field of education, but it was in one way or another a piece of news that kind of hit a little harder because it became very clear what it really has with consequences. The news was from Skive, where Skive Gymnasium reported that they would only inform about what the consequences were for them if they did not remove the re-prioritisation contribution in high schools, just as they have done in vocational training. It was such a very concrete thing. They are 67 teachers in the high school, and now 15 of them have to be dismissed, 15 out of 67 teachers. In other words, can we talk about efficiency in a situation where we are talking about 15 out of 67 teachers being dismissed and when has the limit been reached? I mean, how many teachers do you have to go down on the high school before you like to say that you're gonna stop doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143601	It is difficult to make it more efficient, but if you dismiss 15 out of 67 teachers, it is not because you are more efficient than 2%. Then it's because there are other factors in it too. I do not know the upper secondary school in question, but it may be that the student search has gone down locally; it may be that more pupils have applied for vocational training; it may be that more students have applied for the city. Again, I don't know about that high school. But 15 out of 67 teachers are not a 2-percent saving. So there are other factors in games that can also make it difficult for the individual principal to save.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143638	It's Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143642	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his speech. I took note of the Minister's statement that, among other things, there was a need to ensure that there was no discrimination between the two sides of industry. I've got this new priority contribution, so you've got the money when you really need it. And then the Minister mentions a new education for which the money can then be spent. Can it really be true that some education has to pay for some other education? Is there really no other place the government can look to find money for new initiatives in the field of education? Why does the sector itself have to pay for government initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143715	In other words, if you are the Enhedslisten, I know that you do not necessarily make the big budget. I don't know if this might be a good idea, because now you're gonna go to the PM's office yourself. So it's good to be able to describe every penny used, right? So when you sit in government, and there are, you might say, constant adjustments in all areas. And then there are adjustments in their own area. It is under this government; it was under the Red Government, because there were also adjustments and priorities in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143751	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143754	When the government saves on education and the educational institutions therefore have to fire teachers, I think it means that there is less time for feedback when, for example, you have to fire teachers. has delivered a mission. What does the minister think it means when you fire teachers at a high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143814	The upper secondary schools have had an increasing number of pupils for many years; that is to say, they have been in a long period of upbringing. Resources for new construction and new opportunities have also been given priority, which means that there has been a long period of progress. Now comes a period when there will be fewer pupils, both because there will be less vintages and because more will move towards an eud. And yes, you also have a re-priority contribution. I understand you think that's harsh. The last time the Radicals sat in the Ministry of Education, the SU was spared. In 2013, the choice was made to make a saving on the SU, which fully phased in in 2020 provides an annual saving of 2.2 billion. kr. I assume that what you did back then and the reason you did it was because you wanted to spend the money on something else. Whether it was on education or not, I do not know for good reasons. I'm just saying that the government currently in office is looking at the budgets at all times. How are you going to spend the money and how are they going to hit the best?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143917	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143921	Thank you. Thank you, too, from me to the Minister for the speech. After all, we were happy when we heard a few days ago that we have chosen to abolish the re-priority contribution to vocational training. We had also been waiting for this for some time, but of course it is positive in the light of what the conditions were like. But I would like to ask the Minister: what is the technical justification for not removing in the same chop the re-priority contribution to other youth education? Why is there a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108143948	Well, the government put forward a re-prioritisation contribution, or we have continued the re-prioritisation contribution introduced by the Left, because, as I said, there was a need to keep back with the public budgets. There was an economy that was not solid enough in relation to the rules laid down by the European Union. So it was a priority; it was to be an adult, one might say. It was to take responsibility for the economy, and that also applies in this area. Then we have negotiated an agreement with DF because it has been a strong wish of DF to remove the re-priority contribution to vocational training. They thought this was important and we have recognised it, and that is why we have reached an agreement. However, it was the government's policy that the re-prioritisation contribution should be continued.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144030	Let us thank the Minister for Education for the time being. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144045	Thank you for the word " and how nice it is that we have so moved together a little up here. Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr. Jacob Mark for this request. Let me start by stating that it is an important priority for the government and, of course, for me as Minister for Education and Research, that we have good and fantastic higher education. Education is good for both the individual and for society. The government has set clear and ambitious objectives for higher education. They must have a high level of professionalism and provide a high level of learning yield. There must be close links between higher education and the need for skills in society. Denmark must have a well-educated population with many years on the labour market. We also spend a lot of money on higher education. In 2019 we expect to spend a total of 14.2 billion. kr. in direct grants to higher education. In addition, the institutions receive grants for example: Continuing training and libraries. Overall, it provides a grant of 15.7 billion. kr. in 2019 to higher education institutions. That's 2.4 billion. kr. more than we used 10 years ago. This reflects, among other things, the fact that we have succeeded in getting more people to go to higher education, and that is good for society and for the individual. Since 2016, higher education institutions have been the subject of a re-prioritisation contribution. The revenue from the re-priority contribution has released a room for manoeuvre, including: has made it possible to strengthen Danish police and cancer treatment in our hospitals. The re-prioritisation contribution also encourages the institutions to use resources more efficiently. The institutions' managements have worked constructively and continuously to streamline the task solution. Some institutions have worked to increase digitalisation and to have more efficient administrative systems. Others have succeeded in using the premises more efficiently or investing in energy efficient solutions. I am fully confident that the institutions themselves will be able to assess what measures work in which areas and where they can best realise the savings. I am also confident that the institutions will continue to be able to provide good education and quality within that framework. Having said that, however, it is clear that the financial framework also plays a role in higher education. And I recognise, on an equal footing with the Minister for Education, that it is a great challenge for the institutions to adapt costs to the financial framework while maintaining a high quality of education. Therefore, the government has set an expiry date so that from 2022 on we do not take money out of the higher education area. Higher education is a priority, and the government is constantly working to make our education even better. Together with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, we have agreed on a new licensing system for higher education. With the new licensing system, we have among other things. A basic grant was introduced to provide the institutions with more economic stability and better opportunities to give priority to them. We have put in place strategic framework contracts in which, in dialogue with the institutions, we set concrete targets for improving education and training. And then we are currently negotiating with the parties of the Folketing to make university educations better and more flexible. In cooperation with the institutions and all parties of the Folketing, we have created a learning barometer which will give us a much better picture of the learning environment at each higher education institution. This will give us a good picture and a basis for strengthening the quality of cooperation with the institutions. This all helps to support a high level of quality in education. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that we have a strong education system with free and equal access to high-quality higher education, and we must stick to that. The institutions are working effectively and constructively to make their operation more efficient, and I am confident that they will carry out that task sensibly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144512	We are running a round with the rapporteurs again with 1 minute for questions and 1 minute for answers. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144519	Just a collegiate and friendly advice: I think that the government will do itself and the rest of the country a great service if it drops these unconscious savings that lie in the re-priority contribution, not least if it is still the government's ambition to ensure good and proper educational provision throughout Denmark. Because it is especially in rural areas that you get hit by this. So my question is, how many educational institutions have to succumb to this austerity requirement and close down so that the government is considering changing policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144556	I don't expect any educational institutions to close down because of this. This is a requirement for the institutions to save, and if we take it in until 2021, it is approx. slightly below 12%. in relation to the starting point back in 2015. I have a clear expectation that they can make those savings wisely, and that is also what we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144624	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144628	In other words, the truth is that so far we have actually seen training closures. There are courses where higher education institutions have said that they had to close them down. They were already expensive for the institutions to have, but they had them either because they wanted to keep an outermost region alive or because it was important for them to maintain that type of education and where they have said: we cannot, it is simply not economically connected. So I do not know where the Minister's expectations come from, but what I would like to ask is whether this will have a real expiry date. I have been wondering who could convince the Minister that this is a good idea, because I do not think that the Minister will listen to a SF. So I am thinking: is it the students who oppose the savings that can convince the Minister? No. Are these the institutions? It hasn't worked either. Is that business? I think that, with the Minister's association with the business community, it was perhaps an opportunity. In reality, however, I think that the best thing I can do is the former Minister for Education and Research, who, as his last deed, delivered a letter to the Ministry of Finance with the recommendation: Scrap now the savings from 2022. So that's what the government wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144736	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144740	Thank you for the question. Well, I have listened to both the former minister and the business community and the institutions and the students, and then we have said in the government that we should not continue to take money from the area. That is why we have said that from 2022 the money will be in this area. With the previous financial laws that were presented, there was a prospect that this would continue. Now we have said: now the money stays in the area. So the answer to the previous question is that my expectation is that institutions will not be closed, but it is clear that we have a great many training courses. When you sit as new students and have to apply for higher education, you have up to 1,000 options, which means that when each institution has to look at how they can achieve these savings, it may well be that they say: The best way to do this is perhaps to close a single education at the institution. The answer to the previous question was: to institutions? No, it is not my expectation that anyone will be shut down, nor any specific tender in individual cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144836	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144840	Thank you. The University of Copenhagen has cut scientific staff by almost 7%. from 2015 to 2017 as a consequence of the re-prioritisation contribution. This means that there are simply fewer teachers. We also had this discussion with the former Minister for Education and Research in relation to the quality of the teaching, so how do we actually strengthen Denmark's teaching qualities? I think that with the Minister's own background, does the Minister not agree with me that some of what is the most important and perhaps the greatest challenge for Danish universities is to strengthen teaching, that is, the time between the teacher and the student to give feedback, to challenge, to give sparring? 'Cause the horror scenario is gonna be that we're gonna get super universities like this with a lot of students like you see in American movies, right? How much do you get out of it? I mean, how creative and entrepreneurial a person do you get from going to college like that? That's our concern... doesn't the Minister share that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108144942	At any rate, I share the view that it is extremely important that we have excellent education in our higher education programmes, including universities, and that is also why the government, with the provision of flexible university courses for the future, has just said that education must be given a higher priority. We have suffered from this view, and it is particularly with regard to universities, that there is a slight tendency for research to be given very, very high priority, and perhaps education suffers from this. I would like them to give even higher priority to education, and we have a dialogue with universities on this. Then it is also about how they organise their course. And I would like to see examples of that, for example. out at DTU, where they say that some of what may just happen at a lecture with many people, we could start out online, as we also know from foreign examples such as: Khan Academy, then the time that is then with the students at the institution itself, was used for more feedback, for more guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145032	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145036	When you hear the Minister for Education, she thinks it is healthy that, for example, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter, and whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. That's why I want to ask the Minister for Education and Research: Does he mean, if I may say so, that the courses will be better by saving 2%? would training be improved by the fact that there was no re-prioritisation contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145107	I do not think that there is an equal link between the fact that we are making improvements in efficiency and the fact that education and training are getting worse. I think there are two things we are discussing. One is efficiency, and there I will always think it is healthy to be effective, because it is also better to do things. Then we have another discussion about what happens to the savings that might be achieved through efficiency improvements. And there we have said with the re-prioritisation contribution that we, as a government, would like to use that in other ways. And there we say that from 2022 we would like to use it in the same area. So I always think it is healthy to think new, and efficiency is also an expression of thinking new.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145141	You're not an indictment we use in the Assembly Hall. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145148	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. Something interesting just happened here. Does this mean that the government believes that it is now a question of whether we should choose between teaching in the room and feedback? I mean, the consequence of these savings, which I think it is so much we can call it a re-priority contribution, we can call it efficiency improvements, it's a saving, it's that you have to have distance learning if you want feedback too, otherwise you have to have regular teaching, and then you can't get feedback.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145221	No, I don't want the questioner to see this as an expression of that. The questioner should see it as an expression that there are many ways to do this. Education and training courses and learning courses can be organised in many different ways. Then I had an example from DTU that they had chosen to do it this way; but it is not an indication that we are now saying that distance learning is now much better than teaching with a teacher in a room.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145250	I am delighted when the President's instructions are listened to, and thank you for that. We thank the Minister for Education and Research for the time being. Then we start the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145309	Thank you to the ministers for their replies. Now I also said it in our debate on sustainable savings in culture earlier today, namely that I think it is great to sit in this way and discuss, and it is much better than what we have done in the Folketing. Well, I really want to start where the Minister for Education and Research ended, namely whether it makes education worse when saving 15 billion. kr. On them. The Minister for Education and Research could not say that, but I think we can say that. When you save 15 billion. kr. in education, it has a consequence for quality. Then you can enter into a discussion on whether you can also make some of it more efficient away, whether it is good that education is developing. Yes, I think both ministers are right about that, but when you save 15 billion. kr. In the case of training, it makes the training courses worse. That is also what has been reported today. Now I also mentioned the example from Skive Gymnasium to the Minister of Education, that when you have to save as much as has been the case here it is not only 2%, it is 2%. Again, and then it's 2%. Again, and then it's 2%. again all the way from 2016 until until so far 2022 • This means for Skive Gymnasium, for example, that you have to save 15 teachers out of 67. Does it make education worse or better? This makes education worse. When fewer teachers come to our professional colleges, does it make education worse or better? It makes them worse. When there is less guidance and time for feedback at both professional high schools, universities, secondary schools, even though the high school agreement states that there must be more guidance, but then there will be less, it makes them worse. When there are more pupils in the rooms, when there are more secondary school classes where the ceiling is broken, we get worse education. When there is less education and when we see more professional colleges, where you only have 10-12 hours a week and where the arrow is declining in terms of the number of hours of teaching, then the quality is worse. That is, in fact, why we are standing here, because we have a genuine concern that our education, our education in the field of youth education, our higher education are getting worse. That does not mean, and I agree with the ministers, that we have a poor education system, nor does it mean that we do not have world-class education. I think we are extremely lucky to have the education system we have in Denmark, but as the Danish People's Party always says, we have so much to be careful of, and when you set up to save billions and institutions both teachers, students and students, the business community, trade union movement and Left Ministers say that it is not good with the many savings, it is because it makes the educations worse, and it is bad for Denmark. It is because we need skilled students in the future, but also because we have given each other the gift of having good education so that we can be as skilled as we possibly can and because we can be formed people. That's why these savings have to stop! I asked the Minister for Education and Research if they would stop, and the Minister for Education and Research said: yes, we have listened and they will stop in 2022. The only problem is that it's not right. They say that now you just re-prioritize, and then it will be in this area, and then it is up to the Minister to decide where the money should go. But as I learned in the Ministry of Education and Research this week, the programmes need to plan many years ahead so that they can make stable budgets, and when you don't know what you have in 2022, the starting point will be that you have to save once again. You have no idea if there is a minister who wants to give money or take money from you, and then you cannot hire, then you cannot make new, large investments. So as long as we have this reserve in 2022, there are educational savings, and that's what we want to get rid of. Now it has happened in the vocational education and training programmes, and I am very happy about this, and I am pleased about the cooperation we have had with the Danish People's Party to get rid of them, and now the time has come for us to scrap them in the other areas of education, and if we do not do so now, we will do so after a choice. That is why I am a little pleased to be able to present a completely unanimous opposition which, from the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF together, has made a proposal for adoption, which states that we will scrap the savings, and that is why I will now make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's re-priority contribution, which requires educational institutions to save 2% annually, reduces the institution's ability to offer professionally good education throughout the country, to develop good and inclusive study environments and work with the well-being and professional development of students. The cuts are seriously detrimental to quality and the study environment. At the same time, the pressure for centralisation is increasing so that there will be fewer training courses close to where young people live. Knowledge and education are what we must live on in the future in Denmark. That is why professionally good education is needed throughout the country. Instead, during this parliamentary term, the government has saved billions on education and will continue the savings in the next parliamentary term. Parliament therefore recommends a new policy in which the government's annual savings and re-priority contributions to state educational institutions are stopped so that institutions can focus on quality rather than cuts. • V 8). I really like the text, because then people have a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145849	This is now part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145855	Thank you. A few years ago I read Gunnar Viby Mogensen's authoritative work on the history of the Danish welfare state, and I can recommend this to everyone in this room. His conclusion is that the Danish welfare state is not sustainable in the long run, and he says that this is due first of all to Baumol's law, i.e. that wages increase without productivity increasing, combined with the fact that taxes cannot be increased further. And his conclusion is that, therefore, the welfare state has reached a point where it is not economically sustainable. I would not ask the rapporteur to take a position on this. But I would just like to ask as a framework for this debate: does the rapporteur or does the rapporteur not think that it is possible to improve productivity in the education sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108145950	Yes, and I also believe that it has been possible, but I do not believe that this can be done within the framework of savings that the government is proposing. I mean, I don't think you can win 12%. In this way, it will mean poorer education, poorer quality. I think it can be healthy to be in constant dialogue with the institutions on how to do things smarter. But if you did, I would always say that the money would have to go back to education, and here the government has chosen to say: 15 billion. kr. Away from education, 20 billion. kr. to tax reliefs. I'd never done that for our country. And I haven't read the book that Mr. Henrik Dahl talks about, but I have read both the Productivity Commission's report and a Norwegian parallel to it, and both come to the conclusion that something that can really help raise productivity is better educated people. And we do not get that from saving 15 billion. kr. On them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150047	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150049	After all, what to do with the money saved is a political debate. So I'm going to ignore that in this round. I would just like to ask for a more detailed explanation of the fact that the rapporteur categorically believes that 12%. over a six-year period is too much, given the rapid technological developments that have taken place during the same period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150118	Then I would say that it is because I am elected by the people, and when you are elected by the people, you have a responsibility to listen to those who are actually among the people. And when it is so clear from students, institutional leaders, business and trade unions that this is no longer going on and that this simply cannot be made more effective, it is that all alarm bells are ringing for me, and that is why I am convinced that this cannot be achieved more effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150144	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150148	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark is absolutely right that we have so much to be careful about, and that is something that we in the Danish People's Party are fighting to ensure every day in all sorts of areas. What I'd like to ask, sir. Jacob Mark, on the other hand, is: Jacob Mark now says that this re-priority contribution must be abolished, can we also expect that there will be no re-prioritisation in the whole area of education; that no one will be deprived of money in order that something can be done in other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150215	I appreciate that question. Yes, our position is that the general green harvesting savings must be removed, and that is also why our proposal for adoption says that there are both savings and re-prioritisations. Does this mean that you cannot move within the education system? No, I think you can. We have done so several times with the Minister of Education, and I think we have also done so with the Minister of Education and Research. There we have said: here is something we want to save away and spend on something else. But then it's something concrete. Then it is not just such continuous, continuous, starving savings that one does not really know why happens, other than that it has to be used for something else that we do not know what is either. I could already give one example in an area where I think we should save money in higher education. I would like to set a ceiling on marketing, because there is a huge budget for marketing out there. We have already done so in the field of education. There you could also find some money on higher education and spend on something else in the field of education, but not just to give tax relief in one away.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150312	No, but now we are also talking about education. It was as if the rapporteur had a clear link, so that if some funds were removed, then quality was also removed. I am not of the opinion that there is a clear link, and therefore I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that we can buy ourselves for extra quality, so that if we have more funds, we will also be able to ensure that we have a better quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150339	I don't think you can ever say that it's one to one, so more money gives better quality everywhere. But you have to remember what it is you get for the money. It may well be such an abstract concept inside the Parliamentary Chamber. You get more teachers with more time, you get more guidance, you get better study environments, and just the things we know actually mean something to the quality of education. So yes, I actually think that money matters and that it matters when you save 15 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150406	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150408	Thank you. I would actually like to try to stick to the re-priority contribution. The SF's rapporteur said that it must be stopped, and that must be remembered if the red parties get power after the elections. At the same time, the rapporteur says that it must still be possible to move away within the area, but then the rapporteur also says that priority should then be given. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150439	What I'm saying is that the general green harvesting saving of 2%. a year, which has only been spent in this period on savings out of the system and which will be spent in 2022 on savings and then a reprioritisation within the system, is devastating for our education. Because it makes it impossible to budget and plan, and it is a slow starvation of the institutions, so it must stop. But it is not the case that, if we sit in Christiansborg and make an agreement, we do not have the freedom to say that now we want to save just one particular thing, but then it is also a completely different situation, because then it is not a lasting saving. But we say instead: here we will save some money to spend it on something else. These are not current savings from year to year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150519	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150520	Thank you. But then I hear that the SF's rapporteur says that we will still be able to accept that there is a change of priority contribution, but we just want to make sure that the money stays within the area itself, for example. in the field of education. But you'll still be able to move the money around. Let us take an example: if you think that vocational training needs more money because they need to take more action, then you might still be able to find some money in the high schools and move them to vocational training. I suppose it's also a matter of reprioritising within the framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150557	I believe that the easiest way I can show the difference is to say that in the SF's draft budget, it says that there should be no savings in education in either 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022. Boom, done, they got what they got, and I don't want them to be spared. If we then agree on a single year, for example. to set a ceiling on the marketing of upper secondary It is, of course, the freedom of politicians to make savings for a single year, but the two-percent long-term priority that has starved our health services and now our educational and cultural institutions must go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150632	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150634	I just want to ask whether the parties behind this proposal for adoption have discussed where that money will come from if you do not want to make the re-priority contribution in the field of education. So is it the health care? Is it the home care that's supposed to last? I am curious to find out how the parties intend to fund it. It would then be public awareness if the parties were to be able to explain today whether it is home care or health care that needs to be maintained in order to make this type of text for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150721	I am saying something now which might be completely in the lurch of the Left's rapporteur, but I am saying it anyway: it does not always have to be the most vulnerable in this country that has to stand up for when savings are to be made. I know it's crazy. So no, we will not take it from the patients or from the elderly; we will simply take the money that has been spent on giving tax relief to the wealthiest corporate heirs. It will be rolled back. We would also say that the tax that has been on the work phone, which is to be removed, we see no reason to remove. We'd rather spend that money on education. We would also like to take part in looking at whether to make a fortune tax on the largest pension assets. These are priorities. It's just to say that it doesn't always have to be the most vulnerable who have to pay for setting priorities in this society. I am not sure that we in all these parties agree on where to take the money, but that is the way it is. We agree that the money must be found, and then we have to find out how to find it. I can only speak on behalf of the SF in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150820	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150822	Yeah, but then this was revealed today, that it's a free round. After all, the parties do not even agree on what they intend to do to bring this adoption into reality. The rapporteur mentions a large number of tax increases, and the rapporteur adds by saying that this is not agreed in the group of parties behind the adoption text. So it may also be some other tax cuts, it may be savings in other areas. I think it is sometimes an extremely free round to stand here pounding on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150903	I guess it's no more free than I just raised the tax for those who have the most in this society. And then I just have to say that I do not know whether the Left normally has the practice of standing and speaking on behalf of both the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives when they give funding to their proposals. I am just saying that behind this adoption there is a single opposition that has committed itself to finding the money to abolish the savings in education. I am pleased about that and I feel convinced that we will be able to agree on where that money is to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150930	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108150941	This question debate will give us the opportunity to put the government's savings on education on the agenda. This is very much needed because, during this parliamentary term, the government has been behind significant cuts in education and is planning to continue to do so in a future parliamentary term. There is a need for a different way in Denmark where education can focus on quality rather than cuts. Therefore, first of all, thank you to the SF for raising an incredibly important debate. Knowledge and education are one of the things Denmark must live on in the future, and we must have a better Denmark. What we're good at today, we're gonna get better at tomorrow. And if it is to succeed and Denmark is also to be a society of high prosperity and good welfare in the future, it is crucial that we have good education that ensures skilled employees and good educational opportunities for the individual, and it must be throughout the country. Unfortunately, the government's education policy has been far down the road as a reduction policy, for since 2016 the government's re-priority contribution has imposed on educational institutions over a broad range to save 2%. of their budget every year. This has meant billion savings on education so far, and the government has planned to continue the savings until 2022. The savings include the whole field of education, both upper secondary and higher education. The savings affect the core task of training, namely to provide high-quality education throughout the country, because there is also a geographical battle side to the savings that the government is behind. When you save billions, this means that employees, teachers are fired, there are fewer hours of teaching and the offers aimed at matching the strongest pupils and lifting the weakest pupils are cut back, and institutions in rural areas in particular are particularly vulnerable to savings and risk closing down if the savings continue. Higher education may close down, just as hundreds of researchers and teachers have already been fired around the country as a result of the savings. In other words, there can be no doubt that the government's reduction policy in the field of education has significant consequences and, overall, results in a decline in education in Denmark. On Monday, the government and the Danish People's Party agreed to finally cancel the change of priority contribution at the vocational schools for 2019 and beyond. Thank you for that better late than never. This is good for vocational training and it is good for Denmark. But at the same time it is also a confession case, because the savings stop, recognizing that it has seriously affected quality. When you save as much as the government has done and continues to do, it threatens our education and it threatens quality. Just as there is a great need to stop savings in vocational schools in order to ensure good vocational training, there is also a need to stop savings in the rest of education. Ultimately, the savings are of course a political priority, and the government's policy with significant cuts in education is in our optics the wrong way to go if we are to ensure good education throughout Denmark, because knowledge and education are what Denmark must live on in the future. That is why the Social Democratic Party, with other good parties, is proposing that savings in the field of education, with the re-priority contribution, should stop. Save requirements must be removed, savings on education must be brought to an end, and we must give education peace and quiet to refocus on quality rather than simply focusing on cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151346	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151349	I fully agree that there are places, especially in rural areas, where it may be difficult to make things work together, but this is perhaps not least due to the fact that the youth ages are actually declining. I really hope that the Social Democrat rapporteur will agree with me on this, in other words that it is not possible to say that this is solely due to the re-priority contribution, but that it was indeed the case that back to the time when a Mrs Christine Antorini was Minister of Education, I fought a struggle to bring more equality into relation to rural subsidies and taximeters. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this can be difficult for other reasons as well, and that this is not just due to the re-priority contribution that is currently being discussed and thus blamed, but that there can actually be other reasons as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151447	I fully acknowledge that. The educational institutions that are in the polling area of the questioner and in my own constituency are more vulnerable than the educational institutions that are in the largest cities. So that's why the re-priority contribution and this annual saving of 2%, which is on top of each other year after year, have a special geographical impact side. And if I were the questioner, I'd knock on the table and say, "Now this has to stop, because you're working on our local educational institutions; not only because of the re-priority contribution, they're under pressure, but that's what's going to choke them in the end if you can't stop this cutting circus."
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151529	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151530	It is also to say that when there was a Social Democratic government in this country, I fought a battle with a Social Democratic Minister of Education who would not recognise that, for example, such things as the outskirts might have a crucial importance in terms of whether or not you could run an educational institution in the outskirts. So sometimes you also forget a little how you might have had your own views on these areas a few years ago. I would just like to ask briefly: how will the Social Democrats find funding for the joint text that has been read out?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151610-2	Well, I don't think we can afford not to. The consequence, if we do not find the money, if we do not do it together, and I would really appeal to the bourgeois parties to do this together with us, is that then we close good educational offers and we prevent necessary, urgent educational offers from arising, also in rural areas, because we have such huge black spots around the map where there are no proper educational opportunities. And right now, we're preventing our education from starting it up. So I don't think we can afford not to, and I appeal to us to solve this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151643	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151645	It's just a short, clear-cut question: Is it the Social Democracy's idea after a choice to roll back the re-priority contribution for both 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016? Is that what you go to the polls for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151702	I must be honest and say that is not what we are going to vote on. We would, of course, like to, but we cannot say it, because it is some money that has been spent, it is some money that has been pulled out, so we cannot promise anything, in relation to what is going to happen backwards, but we can say what we want to do forwards. What we want to do in the future is stop these savings because we can see that not only is there being cut to the bone, but also that the leg is being cut, and it kills our good education around Denmark, including where the rapporteur himself has been elected. This is something that is very much, and it may be that the rapporteur is becoming more and more aware of it, the closer we come to an election date, our educational institutions around Denmark are threatening that there will be this saving on savings without any argument and without making any effort to explain why they are doing so. It just comes unconscious year after year, and it kills our education system, and it is particularly dangerous in the rapporteur's own backyard. So I wish there were more who woke up and supported us in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151804	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151806	After all, this is a fascinating fire speech that the rapporteur makes. It just sounds as if the fire speech was funded with a few of the billions that the former social democracy partners must have left somewhere near Social Democracy. Where's the money for all this stuff? If you can't answer that, what we hear about is the air roast and fries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151831	After all, it is not because Denmark is about to go rabundus because of the fact that we are investing in education today. The question is whether savings should be made in the future, but we do not think that this is the right place to invest, the right place to focus on that. I simply have to be honest and say that I do not understand that it has suddenly become bourgeois policy that we should have poorer education. That is what makes Denmark competitive, that is what makes Denmark a well-off welfare society, and that is what makes us able to attract companies from outside. I don't think we can afford not to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151904	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108151918	Thank you. Of course, today's inquiry is relevant. It is always relevant to discuss how best to use the state and all of our money. The re-prioritisation contribution was introduced in its current form by the Finance Act 2016 and this means that it is now the third year that the re-prioritisation contribution exists in this form. I was just trying to google re-priority contributions to see what it has been. I found the answer from the then Thorning Government, where Bjarne Corydon answers a question about the then re-priority contribution and where it is said that it has been customary practice since the 1980s that a general re-priority contribution has been included in the government's draft budget. I would like to say that I also remember having been involved in discussing what the re-priority contribution in the field of education should be used for, including whether the institution should be allowed to keep the money. It's just to say that it's neither new nor very strange to use this tool to create space for new and different priorities. Of course, it will always be the case that if you want to spend extra money in one area, then they have to be taken from another area if the calculation is to go up. Over the last three years, the re-priority contribution has helped to provide resources for strengthening the police, for cancer plans and for other efforts in the field of education. Having said that, there is also a limit to how long resources can be withdrawn from an area. I have said in the past that the re-prioritisation contribution should have an expiry date, which is why I also commended the government for putting in place, in the financial bill proposal, to change the re-prioritisation contribution for 2022 and change it to have the structure that I have mentioned before, we have also had under previous socialist governments. It is a model in which the money is left in this area and where it is possible to say: No, we do not need to reclassify the stakes this year; we leave the money at the individual institution. I also recognise that, in the interests of budgeting, planning and development, there is, of course, a desire on the part of the institutions to be able to draw up budgets. At the same time, however, I also have to say that we basically put the budget for one year at a time in the Finance Act. The challenge of the current re-prioritisation contribution has emerged when it comes to areas that we would like to give the opportunity to develop and better solve the tasks. One example, as mentioned earlier, is the vocational schools, where the Danish People's Party has also secured a reversal of parts of the re-priority contribution in recent finance laws. We have done so because it is education that we want to develop and attract more students. That is why, of course, I am also pleased that on Monday we could reach an agreement with the government to abolish the re-priority contribution to vocational schools from 2019 onwards. I am also pleased that we have an understanding with the government to look at the conditions for smaller colleges in sparsely populated areas, because this is another area where we can hardly wait until 2022 for something to happen. How far we can get with the area in the 2019 Finance Act must the continuing financial law negotiations show. I have a proposal for adoption which I shall read on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a total of 18.2 billion has been allocated in 2019. kr. for youth education, 15.7 billion. kr. for higher education and EUR 20.8 billion for higher education. kr. to SU. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government, in its draft Finance Act for 2019, envisages that the released funds from the re-prioritised contribution in 2022 will be retained and transferred to the education, education and culture area. The revenue from the reprioritised contribution has contributed to financing, inter alia: The strengthening of Danish police and cancer plans and made it possible for targeted new initiatives in the field of education to include the pool to boost professionally weak pupils. The Danish Parliament notes that the government and the Danish People's Party agree that there is a need for an extraordinary effort for vocational training. Against this background, the government and Dansk Folkeparti have cancelled the change of priority contribution to the vocational education and training programmes from 2019 onwards. The government and the Danish People's Party also agree to look at the conditions for smaller secondary schools in the sparsely populated areas. • V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152310	This proposal for adoption is also now part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152315	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech from the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party must be embarrassingly aware that it is, of course, the Danish People's Party that has the decisive votes here, both in terms of stopping the re-priority contribution for vocational schools and in terms of allowing it to continue on all other programmes. For example: Vestfyns Gymnasium in Glamsbjerg, in Assens Komune, where the rapporteur himself has been elected, will save 19.4 million. kr., equivalent to DKK 9,400. per student. What do they say at home in the constituency when you come and tell them you're the one who's making this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152354	But I am quite sure that they will say to me that they are very pleased that we have now abolished the re-priority contribution to vocational training. Then, of course, they are worried because the money they have to save must be found. It's obvious they are. That is why we are also saying that in the field of high school we need to look at it. Assens is also an outskirts area; I fully agree with that. We cannot do everything at once, but we are pleased that we have the agreement with the government that we are looking in this area with a view to finding solutions forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152423	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152424	I am sure that the rapporteur has a better understanding of the situation in Funen than I do, but if it reminds me of the West Zealand area, which I know about it, I think it does; it is about the same relationship that one has to work under the • then this is exactly something that could risk killing a gymnasium like Vestfyn's Gymnasium. Does the rapporteur think that it is good or bad for the municipality of Assen, for the area and for the level of education in general, if this is allowed to continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152453	No. That is also why we have agreed with the government that we need to look at this area and find solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152501	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152503	Thank you. I read this year in the press that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl listens to the concerns that professionals raise and what I now said was a quote and that the limit of how many savings could be put down on them was about to be reached. I was glad to hear that. And then I thought we'd probably get a finance bill, and then you'd get rid of those savings in education. What worked on health was that the opposition and DF joined forces to say to the government: now we want them gone. What worked on vocational training was that the opposition and DF joined forces to say: now we want them gone. Why not do the same at the last of the training savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152551	Well, if I knew where there were just money trees, so I could get all the funds I wanted, we could do really, really a lot of things. However, we have the same financial law, which we also responsibly want to help to get up. That is why we are giving priority to this. And that is why we say that in vocational training it is very important that we do so here and now and that in the field of outskirts, it is very important that we get to grips with it and find solutions for the future. At the same time, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the re-priority contribution from 2022 will be changed so that the money remains in the areas. We can then discuss in the conciliation circle how the funds that are then in the area should be used, and I am not so worried about that, because we will find good solutions for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152626	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152627	I'm afraid that sounds like a resignation. We do not expect the savings in education to be eliminated in the Finance Act; I think that is a pity. But I would say that it is true that I do not expect the Danish People's Party to have a money tree, but that one would almost believe it when they have contributed to the division of 20 billion. kr. to tax incentives. What I would like to ask is: when is the limit reached? Now the rapporteur himself said that the limit was being reached on education, but now they are continuing anyway, so when is the limit reached in 2022? As the rapporteur himself says, savings have been made and risks continuing to go through it. So when's the limit reached, when can't you save more percent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152706	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152707	It can be said that we have reached the limit in some areas, and that is why we have also taken the consequence and said that in vocational training we are removing the re-prioritisation contribution from now on. Outskirts gymnasiums? Yeah, we're gonna have a dialogue, and we're gonna do something. And then we have the agreement that the re-prioritisation contribution will be changed from 2022, and then we will have to look at it. In higher education there are a great many reforms, we are about to look at, we are about to discuss basic funding, and we need to discuss many other things where there will be a need to change priorities. So I'm not so worried about having a framework we can work within there, I actually think we can make a lot of quality out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108152758	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you to the SF for raising this question today in the Chamber. I would like to say that, as rapporteur for the teaching of the Left, I am always pleased to have the opportunity to debate education. This is something that is very much in our minds in the Left because it can be said that education and also the way in which we ensure that we train our young people is one of the things that is really important in the future too. Unfortunately, when we entered the government in 2015, it turned out that there was less money in the Treasury than we might have hoped for, and that also meant that we had to make some political priorities. This meant, among other things, that we also made a political decision at that time to introduce the re-priority contribution that we are discussing here today in the fields of education, education and culture. With the re-priority contribution, some resources will be released, and this will then provide some opportunities to also move the money around to where it makes the best sense. Without clear priorities in economic policy, for example, there would have been. I would not have been able to afford to make a cancer plan that would not have been able to afford to find extra money for our older people, nor, for that matter, for the police. It's really that simple. You have to find some money to start spending it elsewhere. Of course, we have no wish whatsoever that some institutions should close down, which is why, of course, we are also following developments very closely, because what we have in mind is that we actually have efficiency, but also quality, at the same time. We work hard to ensure that our education system has a high quality and high professionalism and that there are good study environments. There should simply be no doubt about this, and I think it is appropriate to bear in mind that we have an excellent education system. There are a lot of billions put in our education, both in the field of education and in higher education, every year. Then I also think it is important to stress that, together with the Danish People's Party, we are prioritising the removal of the re-priority contribution to vocational training from 2019, and we are doing so because we know that across the parties here in Parliament, we agree that we should also want more young people to opt for vocational training. I'm really glad we made it to the end of Monday. So with the looping, we are supporting the vocational schools' opportunities for high-quality education, and I have to say that I think this is an important step towards the hope that we will soon be able to reach a common agreement on the whole of the Eud area. So the changes that will then happen afterwards are, among other things, that today's text of adoption emphasises that we are also taking a look at the secondary schools in the outermost regions to ensure that we have a more stable solution for them and that we also provide education throughout the country. So, in conclusion, I am really, really proud of the Danish education system. After all, our education is characterised by both high quality and high professionalism, and we continue to work for this in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153204	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153207	It's like that out of curiosity. What do they say at home in the Road, on the Road Gymnasium and HF, when you come in to them and with a big smile explaining to them that they must save 17.2 million. kr. equivalent to DKK 9,700. per student? I ask out of curiosity. Is there standing applause, or is it a little quieter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153238	Once again, I must stress that we do not use you as an indictment. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153242	Thank you. I would say that I am actually one of the members of parliament who is so lucky that I have both the Road of Gymnasium to take care of lovingly and also Grindsted Gymnasium. I am fortunate to have two municipalities and, fortunately, two left-wing municipalities. Then I would say that I am in close dialogue with both the educational institutions located at the southern end of my constituency and at the northern end of my constituency, and I know that perhaps especially Grindsted Gymnasium has some challenges, but this is not least because there is a decline in the number of young people. And that is, unfortunately, some of the things that can be said on the bottom of the line almost immediately, that is, if there are fewer young people present in the outermost regions, then it is also harder as an outskirts gymnasium.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153338	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153340	Now the rapporteur had a fantastic election in the parliamentary elections: 5.573 personal votes alone in the backyard plus all the loose around. Could there be a few of the people who have personally voted for the rapporteur, who expect the rapporteur to protect the local colleges instead of slaughtering the local colleges?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153407	Now there's an expression here, that is, the one about slaughtering each other, that I would say we're not actually using in our circle. We are talking, and I am in close, close dialogue with my hinterland and also with the educational institutions that are in my vast circle. They are aware that I am also fighting their fight, but I believe that they also understand that sometimes it may be necessary to look at: where can we find some money if we, for example, are able to find some money? I would like to see an extra effort on the subject of cancer, an extra effort on the part of our elderly or, for that matter, on the part of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153442	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153444	But now we don't talk about every once in a while. Now we are talking about continuous savings from 2016 to 2022, and it has to be said: there we are over the term every now and then, I mean. Then we are talking about savings that have quite a bad impact on quality. And I know that because the government did so in the debate on culture earlier, where you also make huge savings, that you try to say: it's gone to the police, it's gone to health, it's gone to all sorts of good things. But the truth is that every time the government forgets to tell, it should actually be said with pride: over the same period 20 billion have been given. kr. in tax incentives. If you had dropped them, you wouldn't have needed this maneuver. It is just to say that politics are priorities, and I had not set that priority, and I think we should tell it. Now the rapporteur says that it is sometimes. And if we're gonna keep doing that, I just want to know, is this gonna stop? So, is the policy of the rapporteur's party that this reserve should continue in 2023 and 2024? Or what exactly is the policy of the Left in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153546	What I can say, then, is that we have taken a decision that the re-prioritisation contribution in the field of education will end from 2022. And that is one of the things that is in our financial law; it is there, so it is quite clear. And then I'll say, I know that Mr. Jacob Mark is still young, but sometimes I think it's amazing how memory can fail so quickly. So it was not many years ago that there was a red government and it also made priorities, and I think that is something that we are forgetting in this debate. So the money has to be found sometime. And in many, many years, when Mr. Jacob Mark may once become a minister, so maybe Mr. Jacob Mark himself comes into the situation that he also has to find the money before he spends it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153637	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153638	If I were forced out there as a minister, I would say that it was a bad idea for us to do so simply because there was a need to find money. What I am concerned about is that you talk it into a language in which you say that we can make 15 billion more effective. kr. You can't, in my optics at least. Now we have come to the point that we can see that it will be continued in 2022, and the fact that it will be removed in 2022 is therefore not true. They will still have to plan for a saving, and then they may risk something coming back, but they will plan with the saving. Where, for example, should be: Does Gymnasium take it over?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153719	There it is that I can reassure the SF rapporteur that Skive Gymnasium is also in the outermost regions, and that is one of the things we are going to look at. It is so important that we also ensure that we have education throughout the country, and I can then promise the rapporteur that this is something that I shall continue to fight for. Because it really means a lot to the Left that young people can actually get an education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153741	We thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108153752	Thank you, and thank you to the SF for calling this query debate on this very important subject. After all, it is said that the ability to listen is a prerequisite both for becoming a good politician and a good leader. That is why I have an appeal to the two ministers who are in the Chamber today, namely to listen to all the teachers, all the pupils, all the students and professionals who have a global message, and that is that the deterioration in our education system is devastating. I think that this is a very clear and unambiguous request that we are getting from the educational world, and it is that these deteriorations are completely devastating. The deterioration destroys the quality of education, destroys the study environment, destroys the ability of teachers to prepare and help individual pupils and students, and the deterioration also has a profound effect on the well-being of children and young people in the stress and stress epidemic that currently prevails among children and young people. Even the outgoing Minister of Education, the super-liberalist, may I call him, sir. Søren Pind asked the Treasury to stop the savings. When you save or reprioritize, as it is so finely called, it is clear that quality is falling. Teams get bigger, teachers get fired, there's no money for new materials, there's no time for feedback. The deterioration is not the only reason why our education system is under pressure. At least that's our analysis in the Enhedslisten. In recent years it has been counting on reforms that have put our education system, teachers, students and students in a straitjacket. That is why it is not enough for me and for the Enhedslisten that it is the two ministers who are just listening. We all have to do that. Virtually all of the Danish Parliament's parties, apart from Enhedslisten and the Alternative, are behind agreements such as the progress reform, which aimed to push students into the labour market as soon as possible. There is the primary school reform that led to the world's longest school days and teachers without preparation. There is the vocational school reform, which introduced a character wall of 2. There is a high school reform that introduced a grade wall of 5 to enter high school. And finally, the ceiling on education, which is so much a closed door in our education system. I am not surprised that parties such as the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party are voting in favour of these reforms, which, in many ways, lead stress and, at least, competitive state directly into the classroom. But I am surprised that the SF and Radicals have voted for these reforms. That is why I am pleased to hear that when you listen to the rapporteurs of those parties today, the tone is different. That's where you're gonna help remove these deteriorations. I would just like to say to the Radical Left and Socialist People's Party: Welcome home, we missed you. When I hear the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party today, I also hear that this is no longer a priority contribution. It is also pleasing. It is really, really pleasing, and I hope that it will continue to be this way when the majority will hopefully soon change, i.e. that we can stand together in our block to ensure good and free high-quality education. I hope that we can not only abolish the 2-percent savings, but also the progress reform and the education ceiling. So in conclusion, I would just like to say that it should be logical for everyone that quality costs. That's what happens when you're down at the supermarket shopping. Then it is clear that what is best quality, what is best craftsmanship, costs a little more. That's the way it is. This is also true in the educational world. If we do not give priority to the money, we cannot expect the institutions to deliver the quality that we all want so much. Now I have just a minute left to give a reply to the Minister of Education, who before wondered where Enhedslisten might find all the money. There I just want to reassure the Minister of Education and say that we have made a plan, 100 days with the Enhedslisten, which is about what we will do for the first 100 days if we get the majority. That plan is fully funded, and I have even brought a copy to the Minister of Education, which the Minister of Education can read. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154230	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154234	Thank you, Mrs Lund, for the rapporteur's speech. I have a feeling that the Red opposition parties do not agree on how to actually find the money for what has been agreed to write jointly in the proposal for adoption. So I wonder whether Mrs Rosa Lund could reveal where the Enhedslisten will find the money to stop the re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154306	I can at least say something about where we want to find the money. The places we in the Enhedslisten would like to look are some places other than those where you look for funding today. It's at the top of society. We would like to roll back some of the tax concessions that have been given over the past many years to the richest people in this society. Then I would add that, at least in the parties that have signed this proposal for adoption, we are fully agreed to give priority to education and to put it high on the agenda, including financially. I think that is a very good starting point for negotiating where the money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154343	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154345	Great, so we made it that far. And who are the richest in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154352	But some of the tax cuts we would like to roll back are the tax cuts that have been given to those who earn more than DKK 500,000. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154404	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154413	Thank you for the floor. As several have already explained, the re-prioritisation contribution is a consequence of the fact that, although the Social Democrats always submit to the discipline of the Ministry of Finance when they are in government position, the temptation to go all the way to the edge may well arise, and therefore it was necessary to introduce a re-prioritisation contribution in order not to get to the edge of the budget law. So it is not by malicious will, one might say, but by some sort of necessity. It is not the hatred of culture and primary and secondary education that is behind it, but it has brought our economy on its feet, both the private economy and the public economy, and that is very good. We must remember that too. Let me remind you that our investment in research is, of course, linked to our gross domestic product, and it has grown steadily in the time we have had a bourgeois government, that is, since 2015, and that is why we have got a lot, much more money to do good with. This is because we have pursued a sensible policy of economic growth. But I also think that we need to go a little further into this whole discussion about the fact that there is only one way to quality and that it is spending more money. It has been shown many times that there is simply no evidence of a link between the quality of the education provided in the primary school and the cost of providing it. So it is quite a misunderstanding to say that there is a quite simple and straightforward relationship between price and quality, and I would also like to say this to Mrs Rosa Lund, who is using these examples from everyday life. After all, it is not always the most expensive products that prove to be the best in tests, and perhaps that should also be remembered. However, I also think that this is a good opportunity to discuss the attitude of the red parties to the public sector at all and to drive it against the more sensible approach we have in the blue parties. This is a good opportunity to make it clear that it is not something that makes much sense to imagine that it is only possible to operate an expansive public sector, that is, if you do not expand, that the public sector is going to a bad place, just as I do, even though I hear that Mr. Jacob Mark acknowledges that productivity can be improved in the public sector, it seems to be too relentless a position to be adopted. Then you have to be aware of something when it comes to many of these groups, such as: Mr. Jacob Mark mentions, as Mr. Jacob Mark listens to and, as he says, you have to listen to him, and that's not because I have to take it out on Mr Mark. Jacob Mark, he speaks too many in red block. The fact is that these are the same groups for which the Red parties speak, which help to create Baumol's law. After all, they are the ones who are helping to create cost pressures without improving productivity, and it is very good that we can discuss these things today. Because I am absolutely convinced that taxes cannot be raised further. That is what all economists are talking to, and we have reached a point where no more money can be demanded into taxes. Then it will simply lead to tax thinking, which means that revenue does not increase, and that is why we must also drive the public sector in a way that recognises productivity increases. It is fine that we have this discussion and, of course, I look forward to getting questions and comments from the rapporteurs on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154816	At any rate, I can say that there are a few, first it is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154826	I was in Ribe recently. I brag about the fact that I have the most beautiful constituency in the country, but it really is a nice number. 2, which is in Ribe, even with its own gymnasium and everything, a cathedral school with a long and beautiful history, and when the rapporteur comes home to his cathedral school in Ribe and says: Try to hear once, price and quality are therefore not related, comrades, and therefore you must save 20.7 million. kr., so you can make some more quality, which is equivalent to DKK 9,800. per student, which you will save per. years, so that you can do something more quality... what do they say at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154908	So says Ribe Cathedral School: We were founded in 1145 and survived the Reformation and the Thirty Years' War; we probably survive the VLAK government too, not least because we are the high school that probably delivered most MFs, namely Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Mrs Marie Krarup and Henrik Dahl. And they will say that they are not pursuing parish council politics, but that they are thinking of the nation's overall welfare. They'll say that in Ribe when this comes out, because it's such a good school that they can understand not to conduct parish council politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154941	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108154942	It is clear that history gives some confidence, and if you have even survived a few world wars and Schlüter and one and the other, you can survive a lot. But it would be quite an achievement if what 800 years have not been able to kill were to succeed in killing Henrik Dahl and the company. I hope not and do not assume that this is an end in itself, but it would certainly be a very, very impressive achievement if the rapporteur were to succeed precisely in killing this high school. Because I do not think it is something that strengthens Ribe Cathedral School or other education in rural survival opportunities just to ask them to save 20.7 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155027	Well, I do have very high thoughts about the VLAK government, but I do not think it is a social force comparable to the thirty-year war. So I take it so fairly calmly. The Thirty Years War meant that part of our book stock was abducted by the Swedes, but otherwise we got over it, and I think it will work out during this reign too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155050	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155052	Thank you. First, two myth-killers, or what we should call them: 1) it is not only those who cause an expenditure pressure that wants this removed, it is also business, and they usually LA does not just say that they are creating an expenditure pressure, and 2) it is not the case that economists say that tax increases cannot be made in this country. On the contrary, there are some of the economists that LA tends to lean on, for example. It has been said that housing taxation should be increased because we have a runaway housing market. It's just for information. Then I have a question. I asked Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, whether it really was LA's policy in the cultural field, now that we want lower taxes and a smaller public sector, to continue with savings, that is, not re-prioritisation, but simply to continue with savings in order to be able to pay lower taxes in the long term. I am not going to ask the Minister this question, because the Minister is responsible for the government. I really want to know what the Liberal Alliance's policy is in this area. Will the savings be continued so that taxes can be reduced? That, sir. Leif Mikkelsen said that you could continue the savings and that you could make user payments on culture. I do not know whether the rapporteur is inspired by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155157	I think we need a different approach to education than we do to culture. Of course. In other words, our approach is, of course, that what is best overall, including for the public sector, is to have sound economic growth. That is why we are not critical of all kinds of taxes, because our policy will lead to a level of taxation similar to that of Sweden. And I would also like to admit that when you look at the degree of reason in different taxes, for example. top tax very unreasonable like corporation tax, while property tax is among the more sensible taxes, because it helps to combat home bubbles, and we all know that it is not very clever with them. So you cannot compare the field of education and culture. But I also think it is logical to say in itself that, of course, no area can be saved down to zero and then, with a good conscience, claim that it continues, even if it is saved down to zero. It's logical and clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155300	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155301	The logical following question from me will then be: 12 per cent have been saved and the rapporteur says that you cannot save to 0, so where does the Liberal Alliance mean to end?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155315	I am disappointed by the way the institutions have tackled the challenge of trying to improve productivity. I simply find it difficult to take, for example. The University of Copenhagen quite seriously as long as they have people sitting to prepare a sombreo policy. I think that is quite wrong, and when they can afford it, many of their complaints sound a little hollow in my ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155340	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155355	Thank you. I think that this debate really leaves a rather important issue behind, or not, but there is something we may have discussed to a lesser extent. We do some talgymnastics and where the money should be taken from etc., but what this is also about is what the purpose of education really is. Why do we really think that our citizens should have quality education? It's one of the world's goals. It's the World Goal No. 4 - Quality education for all. On Monday, I was at this world-target contest in DUF. We were eight parliamentary politicians who had to pitch a world goal each, and then we had to compete for who won the World Goals, no, not the World Goals, but the pitchet. And I had chosen quality education. I didn't win. It was Jan E. Jørgensen who won, and he was very happy about that. In this context, however, I did, of course, reflect on why quality education is so important. Of course, it is important for our children and young people to learn to read and write, and they must have the deep skills and knowledge, but it is also important that we create critical awareness through education. The critical consciousness is, of course, the whole foundation for our young citizens to go out and take hold with the society that awaits them out there, so that they can somehow stand up and be critical of everything called fake news and demagogic presidents and Brazilian presidents who go out and say discriminatory about women and homosexuals and blacks, and in general be critical of the things in our society that are allowed to exist, even if they are either unfair or illigitime or outright, one can say, untrue. So this is the whole basis for us to educate some citizens who understand not only to ask questions, but also to take the necessary steps to create rebellion and mobilisation and change. That is, of course, the purpose of education. When we were going to have this question debate today, I looked back into our own party program that we were doing when the alternative was founded. We came up with supermany other games later. But when the alternative was set up, we had this party program in which we also write something about education. I would like to read out a little bit of what we think the purpose of education really is. We write: The essential purpose is to create the best conditions for meaningful and change-oriented learning. Students and students must be able to translate knowledge and insight so that it creates value for others. They must be enabled to think creatively, to create change and to resolve conflicts. Further down we write: With the challenges we as a society face, we need all the creativity, entrepreneurial energy, critical and empathic thinking and action that we individually and together can pattern. It's just to mention some of those things. We are standing here completely. That's what education is all about. And then you can take the next step and say that if that's what it's all about, if we agree on it, it may be that we don't agree on it, but if we're • what does it require? Two things. This requires freedom for the institutions. We have had that discussion many times in this Chamber, both in terms of higher education and in terms of upper secondary education and the school. This requires freedom for the institutions to be able to manage their own professional skills and practices. And then it requires investment in education. The latter is what we are discussing today, because what we have done, what the government has done over recent years, is actually pulling money out of education. That can never be the right answer. If we are to move on the money at all in relation to education, then they must be moved the other way. Because we need to invest in what is our common future. There is nothing more important in the world than the foundation of knowledge and ability to bring about change that we give to our young people. It costs money, it costs time. It costs good teachers who have time for relations with young people. Then I can just mention that in our government programme, which we joined in August, we are playing with the figures. There we have actually financed the abolition of the progress reform, the abolition of the ceiling on education, more money for the high schools, a higher subsidy for vocational education and training. They have received this and we will strengthen basic research and free research, and we will actually add at least 6 billion. kr. to better schools and higher education. It's just to tell you that you can add more money to this area and take it from elsewhere. If anyone asks, I will mention all the other places where we have taken them from. But it probably doesn't surprise anyone that it, among other things. It is about inheritance tax, property tax, housing tax and so, of course, a lot of taxation on what we can call the polluting measures, for example. NOx tax and CO2 It's just to say that we can of course move money to this area if we want to. It is about what we prioritise as the most important thing in our society. So that's what I wanted to say. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155848	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155853	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and I should like to pay tribute to the rapporteur of the alternative. The rapporteur always delivers some fine speeches, I think. And there are a great many of the things and a great many of the words that are being said, with which I actually fully agree. I mean, freedom, and so on. We also care about the Left. But then I miss an answer. Because I understand that it is companies and so on that have to pay the bill; they have to pay for those extra investments. There I am thinking a little bit again if we are to reverse it: is there not an upper limit to how much the alternative means can be picked, for example. private companies in relation to being able to invest in public education?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108155947	There is the limit that it will be a percentage tax. After all, we do not want to tax companies across the board. What we have as a proposal is that if, as a company, you produce products with a high CO2 level, it is not companies as such that we want to tax. But in the environmental field we want to tax all the production and productivity that gives a high CO2 then we also want to tax wealth. In other words, it will be some capital tax and taxation in the form of inheritance tax in line with the social democracy's proposal in relation to the progressive inheritance tax in which we go out and say that those who have a great deal of money in their hands should leave little to the treasury. So, of course, there are also some areas where we get something. But it is important for me to say that we are not against companies, but we are against companies polluting and they have to pay for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160039	So this is where it would be really fun to ask the question: does it also apply when you fly, that is, that you then have to be taxed if you emit too much CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160052	Now it's very funny when I'm on the platform. But with pride I can say that we have a point here called climate tax on air travel. It's actually meant to give us 5 billion. kr. over a four-year period in tax revenue. So that's also true when we fly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160107	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160125	Thank you. Every year, the government has chosen to cut education, every year. It has been the case that it hasn't even been very exciting when the Finance Act came, because you just knew that if there was one that was safe, it was that the government would cut on education. It's a choice the government has made. We did something else in the Radical Left when we were in government. Otherwise, we took over the power of government at a time when there had been economic crisis, there was a low tide in the box, because the Left had failed to make reforms, and yet we chose to invest in education. That is because we in the Radical Left believe that education is the most important thing. And if the Radical Left had still been in government, there would have been no re-priority contribution to education. But we do not, and the young people pay the price for that. Because when you cut down year after year in the way the government does, this means that there will be fewer teachers, less time to prepare the teaching, less time for guidance, less time to give proper feedback on your tasks and thus also less quality. That is why I feel at least that I do not think it is particularly adult, as the Minister of Education says. On the contrary, I think it is quite a bit adult to make such a green harvesting saving, which you just put out on the institutions and then almost make it sound as if it is not the government's fault that teachers are now being fired all over the place. The government has chosen to save on vocational training, in general secondary schools, in commercial colleges, in technical colleges, in the BUCs, in the Sosu schools, in maritime education, in open education, in the Science School, in the architectural schools, in professional academies, in professional colleges and in universities. And then we heard that, together with the Danish People's Party, the re-priority contribution to vocational schools will now be abolished. Then I was just as happy until I read on the Ministry of Finance's website that there won't be a single extra crown, but that the elements of the government's vocational school proposal will have to be downgraded, as stated on the Ministry of Finance's website. Where are the ambitions? Education costs a farm. Saving education costs a kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160409	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160413	Thanks for the speech. I just have a clear question that's probably easy to answer. It is: Why did the Radical Left in 2011 force its collaborators S and SF to take over, and I quote the economic policy of the VK government in the broadest sense, if it was as bad as Mrs Lotte Rod has just said?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160440	Because we took over an economy with a huge actual deficit. There was high unemployment and low employment. And why was that? It was there, partly because there had been an economic crisis, partly because the Left Government had spent so much time pulling itself together to make the reforms that were otherwise well known to be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160504	But since the policy pursued was so uncommonly poor, as Mrs Lotte Rod says, it would be obvious to come up with its own economic policy. Instead, however, the economic policy of the VK government was taken over in the broadest sense. It is therefore very, very difficult to understand within the context of a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160525	The Left, I think, was well aware of the need to make economic reforms throughout the reign, yet nothing was done. They waited and waited until the last minute. Try to think about what a stronger economy we could have had if the Left had made reforms in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160547	There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108160558	Thank you very much and thank you for an exciting debate. Today we have debated the priority contribution and the education sector. The re-priority contribution was introduced by the then Left Government because the SR government left an economy without a safety margin in relation to the budget deficit limits. What does that mean? This means that it is a responsibility of a blue government to act as adults at all times. That is what you sign up for if you join a blue party, and especially if you run for one. Then you are the one to ensure that the economy is balanced. It is also necessary to protect citizens from branding. We must ensure that companies can operate in a global market so that they can continue to create jobs and income. These are the revenue we have, among other things. user for education. These are the conditions you have as a citizen, and of course you live perfectly well with that. We can just tune into my area of education and look at what is going on with the re-priority contribution. Let's take a look at primary school first. The Folkeskole is financed by the municipalities and not by the government. It is not the government that sits and says how much money is needed for a given primary school. Expenditure in the municipalities has been fairly stable for a number of years. There was a longer day of school. It was under the then S-R-SF government. Of course, it meant something in relation to the cost, but otherwise, as I said, it is relatively stable, despite the fact that there are a little fewer students. In free schools, we have adjusted up the percentage of free schools. The economy of free schools is always accompanied by primary schools with a gap of three years. This means that if the primary school gets less money, the free schools also do so only three years later. But we have adjusted the percentage upwards, first up to 75%, that is where it has been for very many years, and then a small percentage more, because we thought that the free schools, which of course do not have the umbrella that is under the municipality in relation to children with special needs, should have a little extra in order also to be able to accommodate some more children with special needs. In vocational education and training, we have together with DF removed the re-priority contribution. The FGUs aren't in the lake yet. They have a healthy economy. And then we have the high schools, and there is still a change of priority contribution. In other words, it is a relatively limited area in which there is a re-prioritisation contribution. But that is what we are discussing today, and that is quite fair. And there's a focus on the outskirts gymnasiums, that's fair too. But if you look at the high schools, as I mentioned in my speech, they have had more and more pupils over a number of years, and that is why it can of course seem harsh when it goes the other way. But as they have seen in Ribe: If you run high schools long enough, you experience both one and the other and both wind and headwind and sun and rain. But again, there's this whole grown-up thing. It may sound a little dry and boring, but that's actually how I view the bourgeoisie; it's this thing about sometimes having to provide the framework. And again, it can be boring. This whole thing about spending money and knocking out your arms is fun, I understand that, and I can have that urge myself. But that's what you go into as a citizen. That means that the money has to fit. The kids need grades at school. They have to go to school, too. So we're looking at absence. We expect their parents to have talked to them so much that when they start, they speak a reasonable Danish so that they can go into the teaching and so on. So it is, it can be said, across the board, that decisions are taken as a citizen, which are about the framework, which is about parental responsibility, which is about us raising expectations that citizens also take responsibility for themselves, which is theirs. On the other hand, we would also very much like to protect them from a state that is tempted to recover too much of their money. We want to protect those people who have paid taxes all their lives, for example. At some point, they die, and then they leave behind some money for which they have paid taxes. And there must also be reasonableness in relation to what should then be taxed, and there may be quite different views about that. We would also like to protect companies, which, after all, must feed us all by providing jobs and also paying taxes, so that we actually have a society running around. So it's this kind of boring adult role, but it's also quite interesting, because it's exactly this adult role that's why we have such a well-functioning society that we actually have. We are a tiny country in a huge world that has a relatively well-functioning labour market, educational system and safety net for people who get sick and who get old. So I am very pleased with that. On the other hand, I would be concerned if, for example, The SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten are given power as they have heeded. Now I've been sitting there looking a little bit for 100 days with Enhedslisten, and I have to say that there, of course, I get a little worried. But I also get very worried when I listen to the otherwise sensible rapporteurs from the Alternative and the SF. Because there is no doubt for me that if the three parties get power as they have watched, we will have a poorer Denmark. So it is not just the individual who, in the long term, will get less money for himself when it becomes a poorer country. This will also mean that we will have a worse education sector. So this is a little short-sighted, the a little youthful approach to things, which is tempting enough. But I'm really glad that the VLAK government has such good cooperation with DF on long stretches, which means that we actually have a healthy economy and can also afford to do some good training. Then we can delve into the individual priorities, and we can look at the outskirts of gymnasiums etc., I am perfectly willing to do so. But on the big blade, I think it is extremely important for the bourgeois to assume responsibility for the existence of a framework; that we do not tax the citizens; that we make sure that the kids get a grade and that they sit down at school on time and all these things. That's how it is. Then there's the whole alien area. We have not discussed this at all today, because it is not part of this debate. But honestly, when we look at our economy, it also matters if Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF has a lot of influence. We are paying 33 billion today. kr. a year for non-Western immigration. It's just some money that gets ripped out pretty quickly, among other things. of our education system. So if we're going to look down from the helicopter here, we're going to discuss some very specific things, but we're also discussing economics. And I am actually very concerned if it is the case that we should be so unlucky to have a very red government supported by red parties, because we could risk having a poorer country, and therefore also worse conditions for our citizens, and hence also a poorer education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161358	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161402	It sounds really nice to have all the people and companies that the Liberal Alliance wants to protect. Could it be that the people who pay taxes will actually feel better treated if their children could get a good education? Could it be that the companies that pay taxes would actually think that the government would take better care of them if they were given the skilled labour that was needed? I am not sure that any of the taxpayers we have in Denmark think it is totally, completely unreasonable that money is spent on education, because that is precisely what keeps the wheels running in Denmark. The Minister is quite right in saying that sometimes you meet the sun while you sometimes meet the rain, also at the educational institutions, but we have to say that we are really out in a sad and long winter, perhaps almost glacial conditions, under this government. I have not completely given up because things can spring again, and I believe that more than a single period of government is needed to destroy our education system. But would the Minister please elaborate on the last line here, which is that you agree to look at the conditions for smaller secondary schools in the sparsely populated areas? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161516	Thank you. Of course, we have to count on qualified labour, and if we are going to get back into the helicopter, then the Social Democrats have just rejected a government proposal to look at whether a capable person could come from another country as well. But let it go. So, of course, you can expect exactly that. I do not really think it makes sense to discuss it when you look at the fact that for a few years we have had a re-priority contribution in this area, it is probably a little violent. In relation to the outskirts of the gymnasiums, I would say that we are willing to discuss it, and what I said in the conciliation the other day was that it would be sensible, when at some point we are going to start a taximeter reform, to look at whether or not the outskirts taximeter, which already exists and which the Left has helped to set in motion, would it be a good idea to adjust it? It must, of course, be in a sustainable way, where an adjustment may be made, but it must also take account of the overall picture. That discussion should be taken when it comes to taximeter reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161619	If there is a follow-up question, you have to press in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161627	In the West Zealand we don't have it just to take it, as I have a great knowledge of some outskirts gymnasiums, but we have some rural gymnasiums, we have some provincial gymnasiums. But what does that mean, what is an outskirts gymnasium, and what will it mean if they save 10,000 kroner every year? per student? For Kalundborg Gymnasium it is 13,000 DKK, it is 13,600 DKK. at Høng Gymnasium, which is DKK 9,200. in the case of Slagelse Gymnasium. What can they expect from this government? Do they count when the Minister speaks of outskirts gymnasium, or what can we expect, and what can they expect in crowns and ears?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161718	There is, of course, a definition today, but I do not remember how many students there are, so that you can talk about an outskirts gymnasium, but I would like to pass it on to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. But I cannot predict what that debate might look like in the future, because it will be difficult at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161732	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161736	Thank you. I am very fascinated by how very specific questions about the re-priority contribution can suddenly be about us being adults only if we pursue exactly LA's immigration policy, absenteeism policy in high school, agree with the school pool and, incidentally, the whole of LA's primary school policy, and then we also round the reform itself. What I want to know is: What should Skive Gymnasium do now that they have fired 15 teachers? There were 67 in total. What I would like to know is: where does it really put our youth education, which the Minister is responsible for, that savings that have been going on since 2016 are now being continued? So what I really just want to ask you in concrete terms about this question is: where should we save now? In other words, when budgets are to be put in place, and once again savings are to be made in high schools, where does the Minister think savings should be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161825	I understand that, but it is, of course, because the re-priority contribution is on the very big blade in relation to the economy of this country. It was a decision taken by the then Left Government in relation to the entire overall economy of the country, and that is also why we cannot avoid talking completely overall economy when we are in this room today. So what do you do at Skive High School? When I had a management responsibility in a private organization and I was told that now I had to hold on to the money, it was my responsibility to find out how we could do it. It is not very fun to be in this situation, but it is a situation that managers experience both in the public and in the private sector, and just as there would probably be no outsider who could tell me exactly how to do it then, I will also refrain from saying what the concrete principal should do in the specific situation. It wouldn't be serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161922	Then let me ask you another way. When is the limit reached for how much high schools, for example? Skive Gymnasium, can save you when? Because I actually asked the LA rapporteur where the limit lies, how much we can continue to impose savings on them. And those who do not get anything in 2022, those who are not taken advantage of by the minister when the distribution comes, will have to save again, so where does the limit really go? How long can this be going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108161952	After all, I cannot look any further than what the Minister of Finance says about the re-prioritisation contribution, which is 2022, and there the Minister of Finance says that we will stop with the re-prioritisation contribution, and then we will give priority to the sector, and I have to assume that this is the plan he has put forward, and I cannot discuss that beyond what is in it. We must decide on how to proceed in the next period of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162022	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162026	Will the Minister repeat for me what the savings mean for the number of lessons and the study environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162036	I do not know whether the rapporteur expects me to have any figures here where I can say exactly what has happened in Skive. I'm not quite sure I understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162049	That is what the question is about, and I just had a little difficulty listening to the Minister telling me something about it in his first reply. Then I would just like to give the Minister the opportunity again. So, what does the Minister think that the government's savings mean for the number of lessons and the study environment and the well-being of students?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162111	Okay, now I understand the superior blade. Well, it's different how you give priority to the individual high school, but what's important to the government is that you specially focus on the core task, which is the good teaching. That is to say, we have an expectation that we will start by looking at tasks that are not directly related to the core task, but I am not saying that it is an easy task to prioritise at the individual high school. It certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162140	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162144	Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on sir. Jacob Mark's question, because I really do not think the Minister answered that question, namely, where is the limit on how much savings can be kept? How many percent can we keep saving? When did we get to the point where it starts to hurt so much that even the Minister doesn't think it's healthy anymore? The Minister referred to the Minister for Finance and said that it would be the decision of the Minister for Finance, but what does the Minister for Education think about how far we can go before it hurts too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162214	Of course, there is a limit to how much savings can be made, including at the individual high school, and we have set that limit for 2022. So there's a limit. It will always be the case that priority is given to the state budget, but where priority will be given to different priorities. I do not think I will venture to look into the next period, but of course there is also a limit and it has been set as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162250	But then I just have to understand it correctly, because is it not quite understood that by 2022 savings will be continued, but you want to re-prioritize the funds, but there will be institutions that will then not be given re-priority funds that will continue to save? So how long should a given institution which does not receive funds continue to be pruned?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162310	It will depend entirely on the decisions taken at that time, with the government and the majority that will be at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162319	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Education and pass on the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162342	Thank you for a very good debate. I actually see the question here and also the very lively one, I think, debate as an expression of a huge commitment to this and that we who work with this area really feel something for it and really feel that it is a very, very important investment for Denmark, that is, education, education, whatever we call it and which minister is responsible for it. When I became a minister on 2 May, there was a letter from my predecessor to the Ministry of Finance, which has also been referred to a few times as follows: Stop it now. That's what the letter said. And I raised that discussion because I was also asked about this, which any minister in this area would probably be. But also because this letter was there, I was asked about it and had to give my reflections, and I agree that savings cannot just continue year after year, because there is a limit. I expect that we can do it and still deliver world-class education, and we say that when we reach 2021, it will be 12 per cent, i.e. 6 years of savings by 2%, but the 2 per cent. is smaller, so it is just under 12%. I think we can do that, I think the educational institutions can and still can provide very good training. Then we have said that we will leave the money on the ground. We haven't decided yet how to get back; they have to get back to something in the area, they can't just lie there. And what is in this area is educational institutions. Do they come out through taximeter subsidies where we just bring it back one to one, or do we have a concrete initiative that we would like to work on? At that time, the new licensing system, which we all agree on, has been running for two years. So it may be that we see some elements in it and that that is where we will put in. But it was important for me and for the government to say clearly that from 2022 the money will be in this area. Then there has been some discussion about the institutions and their planning horizons, and I agree that this is also a priority here. But they do have their grants, and there are plenty of things they can have and make decisions about. And my advice to them is to say that we know that these savings will be there for the next three years, and I would like to try to work to ensure that we do not have to wait until December 2021 to find out what we are going to spend the money that will remain in this area so that we can give them better notice of what is going to happen to it. It has also been discussed here whether this is such unconscious savings. No, I don't think it is. After all, the principle here is that we choose to make savings across the whole area, and then we tell the individual, wise institutions with responsible management that they will then have to find out how they will make the savings. And I think they can find out. But I fully acknowledge that, and I think that the debate may not be fully recognised, and both I and the Minister for Education say that we know that it is not easy to do. We know it would be easier for them if there weren't these savings. But we have chosen to prioritise, and this is an area that we spend so much money on education specifically with the 15.7 billion. kr. is 8%. of all the State operating expenditure in that area. So when we choose to look at all the accounts and say that now we have to prioritise, we're also going to look at this area. But that does not mean, as has been a little insinuated, that we lose an entire kingdom and lose an entire generation, because there is still a lot of money that we invest in it. It's just a little less than if the re-priority contribution wasn't there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162807	Thank you, and there are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162812	I do not imagine that we can convince neither the rapporteurs nor the ministers today to drop the priority contribution. This is, of course, something that has been decided much higher up in the system of the government's Economics Committee, but also in the top management of the Danish People's Party. So this is just a call to all of you to try to push in the right places to reverse this decision, which is in the process of destroying our education system. I really mean it when I say that it prevents our educational institutions from developing, expanding, rethinking and being visionary because they have to keep running after themselves. They have to keep chasing the next cut, and that's not a very good way to work year after year, so this is just a friendly call to the minister and also to the rest of you to try to take this up internally and see if it wasn't time to stop this. Because it is the entire education system in Denmark that is involved, and it is also your education system, and we need to take care of it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108162926	Thank you. With the financial bill that has been tabled, we have said that it will continue in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Then I assume that they also sit down and look at it in the difficult deliberations they have on each institution. It is not the case that when it happens in 2020, it is a surprise that it is there. For what we have said is: unfortunately, you can count on it to be there for the three years. So for the fact that they have to hunt it down every year, I would say that they can actually make strategic decisions about it. That's why I'm trying to refer back to the fact that we have a total saving over this six-year period of 12%. I find that easier to relate to, and I actually think they do too in the way they think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163012	You can do this accounting number one year or two years, but you can't keep doing it. You cannot keep from investing, not buying the equipment that is needed, and just pushing some employment around on the other side of a financial year, or not renovating buildings. You can't keep building on top of it. This could be one year or two, but it can't go on. It can't be like this for 6 years, and then they don't even know if they've been bought or sold after these 6 years have passed. As the SF's rapporteur has also pointed out, this goes on. It may be that it stays in the system, but each place of education has to prepare for them to still have to find these percentages. Be careful what you do with our education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163050	As I said before, I fully acknowledge that for both the board and the management of the individual institutions this is a challenge. It's not just easy. But I just want to say that we are trying to give them some transparency by saying that this will be there for the next few years. You're welcome to make a 6% saving. in 2019 to have some air for the next few years. They can decide for themselves within each year how they want to phase it in. So that's just a comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163114	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163118	Thanks for the pick-up. I am actually really happy with that recognition that it can be difficult to plan, even for the individual institutions, and also with what was laid out in 2022, where you have no idea whether you have been bought or sold. You still run the risk of having to save. In a debate on the savings in education, the Minister of Finance himself announced that it was planned to take money from the education sector and transfer it to vocational training in 2022. Well, then there can be some high schools that already say: Okay, we're also gonna need money in 2022. And this is a very uncertain situation for the education system. We actually hear that the Minister himself says that the Minister can see that, and that is why the Minister will be working to ensure that we agree on what the money is to be used for at such a reasonable early stage. And with early warning, I heard the Minister say almost a little before December. So what I'm gonna ask is, what are the leaders gonna do out there? Do they have to plan with savings in 2022 because they don't know if they get the money? Or should they expect money to come? What would a responsible leader do if an assessment were made here by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163223	Now we're on management advice here. But I do have a dialogue with the Presidents of the institutions. This morning I had a discussion with the chairman of the professional colleges, and we had actually had this discussion. And my advice to them was to think about those three years ahead. Because there we have said that we are going to continue with the savings. And then we would like to try to work for clarification: what will happen in 2022? But right now, when they sit and make their budgets, and there they do not necessarily make one-year budgets, think that the savings that lie there are also for the next three years. Because that's what we're going to do. That's my advice to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163303	Then I actually hear it's just, so I've got it right, and otherwise the minister can fix it yet... that you have to count on 3 years of savings, and then there's a time when you can plan not to save 2%. Perhaps then, if the Minister had the courage to do so, the Minister could also say what to do with the years afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163325	I say that they have transparency over the next three years. But I can't tell them anything specific. 'Cause I don't want to stick them in the eye and say, 'Well, then you can count on it to stop.' Because that's what we haven't said. That is the guarantee we cannot give and that is why we are holding it as a central reserve. Because it may be that in the intervening period we decide to use them in a different way. It may be that they need to be used for a concrete initiative out there. That's why I can't tell them. But I can say that the savings are there, but the money has to be returned. Well, the money's in the field, that's what was my point before. They're in the area, and there are some institutions out there. So some of them get them to use for some things. And maybe they'll get back to the area. However, I would also like to have an understanding of what the questioner himself put forward in one of the rounds before; it was that it might well be that a decision was taken one year on, for example. to say to the institutions: Now you cannot spend so much money on marketing next year. But that is also something that is said on the political side at a certain omen to the institutions. And that is the political reality in which they too are. And I actually feel like they can maneuver in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163430	The next question is Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163434	I was curious: what then was the Minister's first thought to the call of the predecessor to drop the savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163444	Just at the outset, I was not aware of this, because I did not understand the institutions', what to say, such an economy and conditions properly yet, but my first thought was that I think it makes sense to say that something stops at some point. It goes without saying that you cannot keep taking 2%. at 2%. So that was my first thought. Then I had to get into the area and understand it, and then we had the discussions about it, and then we ended up with this solution, which I think is a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163511	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163516	Thank you. I think the Minister has just said something very interesting in this collection which I would like to hear a little more about, and this is the fact that the institutions are faced with having to take strategic decisions when they are faced with such a saving here. And they are right to do so. But it's a strategic decision they have to take with their arm twisted around their backs. I'm sure they're making a lot of strategic decisions, but they could have been this one besides. So I would just like to hear the Minister's comment on: what are they going to do now? Are these guys gonna be guys? Are they gonna make bigger teams? Should they not invest in teaching materials? Are they just gonna drive on with the old equipment? What is the strategic decision now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163557	But that is why I am not in the management of the individual institutions. Because I do not have the insight that allows me to say exactly what is right for each institution. We have many different education programmes, we have many different institutions around Denmark, and what is right for them under the conditions that we have politically chosen to give them is up to them to find the right answer to. So I can't give it. I used to come up with a few examples of something that's happened out there. But what they have to do now, I can't give the answer to. But I am sure of what one of the presidents of one of our major professional colleges said: we do not agree with it, but we will find a solution. And that's what they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163635	What else can we say when we get our hands dirty in the way that I think professional schools have been given? So I would like to ask the Minister: what are the right conditions for us to set from in here? I agree in part that we should not interfere in decisions to be taken. What I'm looking for is what is government policy? What are the right conditions to provide professional education, universities, colleges, vocational schools, etc.? What are the right conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163703	We believe that this is what we have presented with the draft budget and the funds that have been allocated to each institution over the next three years. That seems to us to be the right conditions from the overall priorities we have set.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163715	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163730	Thank you for the debate. I shall be brief, because I think I have already had the opportunity to say something, and I also think that many interesting things have been said. However, just a brief summary: I think this is a debate I have learned more from, both in relation to such major educational policy visions, but also in relation to what really needs to happen up to 2022. There are, however, some things I have not learned. I'm not really smarter about this going on forever. Will it be the case that in the future, both in 2022 and subsequently, there will just be this saving that you saw, if you're lucky, can get back? Nor do I think I have any idea where the ministers themselves imagine that the institutions will have to find new savings. I thought there was a varying degree of understanding that it could be difficult to find these savings. The Government has stated that it will continue to do so in 2022 as well. I think that's nice. I was a little pricked by reading the finance minister who was out on Denmark's Radio, saying that now we want to stop the savings in education. I think we have made that clear now that we are not doing so, and that is a political priority, and that is fair. I would just like to say at the end that the Minister of Education says that we want to make education worse and Denmark poorer, and I could make a long serenade about why it is wrong. I think I'll just say that it's not us who have saved 15 billion. kr. In the field of education. And if the Minister thinks that you are an adult only if you save billions on education, yes, I will never grow up!
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163911	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 13 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108163925	It is now possible for the rapporteur to roll back in his own seats. After all, we have a new arrangement in place that we sit here and can look each other in the eye, and now we go back to normal, if I may say so. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164008	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling motion for a resolution B 15, because you are helping to highlight some important issues: what do we want with digitalisation in the Danish education system? How do we use IT wisely in teaching? And what is really needed when we look into the future? Let me start by saying that the government agrees with the overall ambition of a national strategy for digitalisation in the education system. Therefore, the government will also launch the preparation of a proposal for a national strategy for digitalisation towards spring 2019. Such a presentation can usefully be based on our action plan for technology in teaching from February of this year. We need to get smarter and sharper on where we use IT and technology in teaching and where we don't. The analog room is also important. Kids need breaks and breathing space. They need us to turn off all the transmitters and immerse ourselves in, for example. a book or a conversation. We must exploit the opportunities of technology where it makes sense in terms of making children smarter and more skilled. IT and technology must never be digital noise in the classroom. So I fully agree that we need to sharpen this issue, and I am very concerned about that. However, the government does not agree that there is a need to set up a real coal excavation of the last 30 years of digitalisation of the education system. This is to be seen in the light of the fact that in the summer of 2018 we have published a major evaluation of the efforts made in recent years for IT in primary school. It shows that most teachers and students experience a number of positive effects in the use of digital resources, especially in relation to the ability to qualify and differentiate teaching through digital learning tools. The general experience is that both the quality and the extent of digital resources have increased in recent years and that teachers experience positive temporal effects in preparation, teaching and evaluation. But there are also challenges. How, for example, can we do this? ensure a high quality of digital learning tools and a diverse supply? How do we ensure that schools and teachers take didactic ownership? There has to be some meaning in IT, and it needs to be used in the right context. The school must manage IT and not be controlled by IT and technology. With the action plan of February this year, the government has launched important initiatives across education areas. Since the launch of the action plan, 8 initiatives have already been implemented and 16 are in progress. A final initiative will be launched before the end of this year. This is among other things. initiatives on technology understanding, to uncover new exciting technologies such as: virtual laboratories and an initiative on capacity building at professional high schools. A national strategy for digitalisation must build on the action plan, but must also have the long light on it. This requires us to think carefully about involving professionals and the educational world and to come up with a well-prepared proposal. The Government will therefore prepare a proposal for a visionary and long-term national digitisation strategy for the period 2020 to 2025 up to the spring of 2019. But there is also a need for action here and now. I will therefore follow up on initiatives for the digital learning market in the near future. We need more flexible and user-friendly learning platforms in the primary school area. We need to focus on the quality of digital learning tools and on how we can achieve more transparency. And then we have to work to get more exciting foreign products to Denmark. Finally, we must ensure that schools have participation in the procurement of digital learning funds in primary school. Here KL has set in motion a pilot experiment to test different models that can give teachers access to a wide range of digital learning tools. The government therefore agrees with the ambition of a national strategy, but cannot support the proposal for a study. That is why the government cannot support the concrete proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164419	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164429	Thank you. The more we have dug into this area, the more it has become clear that there is no evidence of what actually works. I am well aware that there is a large report prepared by the Ministry, which describes a great deal about how the digital tools are used and how teachers perceive them and so on. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister does not agree that there is in fact no evidence of the impact that all the efforts made, all the means we have spent on digital learning tools, have had on children's learning and that this is really the prerequisite for a strategy that constructively addresses these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164512	Thank you. We actually know quite a lot. Firstly, we have studied IT and digitisation in Denmark, and then there are also international studies and research in this area, and there are some parallel features if you look at other Western countries. For example: I saw some results from McKinsey, who had examined how digital devices were important. The short conclusion was that technology that teachers work with in teaching has a positive effect, and this does not apply to student-controlled devices to the same extent. This means that if you pour a whole lot of iPads into a classroom, you should not necessarily expect it to have a positive effect on the teaching, but if the teacher gets some digital tools that are thought through, and on which the teacher has also had participation, then it can have a positive effect. So we can easily create, one might say, a national strategy which also draws on research and knowledge from other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164628	Well, I kind of agree with that a long way along the way. One can always discuss with regard to the strategy whether we should have a basis first or whether we should put it in as part of the strategy. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: when it is said that the government cannot support the proposal as it stands, what would it need to do to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164648	As I said, I am actually very pleased that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has tabled this motion for a resolution because it is an area we are discussing so little, and I have a lot of respect for the fact that the DF has sat down and made such a move in this particular area. There is one area that deserves much more attention, because it is of course about the infrastructure of our education, it is about the content of our education, and it is about the premises in the classroom. So we fully agree on the importance. The only thing we have a little disagreement about is progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164722	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister. We move on to the list of rapporteurs and the first is Mrs Annette Lind as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164732	Thank you for that and thank you to DF for putting IT and digitisation on today's agenda. We're really happy about that. In the social democracy we think it is a good idea to launch a study of the digital effort in the education system. We think it is sensible to develop strategies for digitisation in the system that we have, and it is also essential that there are assessments of the effectiveness of the digital actions taken in the field of education. It is essential that the digital initiatives that exist in the field of education have the desired effect, so that the funds are not used incorrectly. Digitalisation must work constructively for pupils and students in their teaching. Therefore, we think that mapping what is going on as intended and what may not be doing is important. And we think it should be forward-looking. So to the second part of the motion for a resolution, which deals with the national strategy for digitalisation. We have seen in the proposal that you have eight proposals on what should be included in the national strategy, and we have not fully determined whether it is the eight proposals that should be included in the strategy. In fact, we think it is a very good idea for us to have a look at the study on the digital effort and, as the Minister said, a lot of things have been set in motion, among other things. This three-year technology-understanding experiment. After all, we think it is important for teachers and pupils to understand technology so that they can apply it critically, creatively and purposefully. That is why we think it is very good to do the study. Whether it is precisely these eight initiatives that are to be included in the national strategy, we are not entirely clear about this, so we will probably abstain.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164925	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164931	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the support I also hear in it. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the Socialists agree that we have a lack of knowledge, in other words that we simply lack evidence of what works and what does not work. Billions have been spent in this area, and I have not seen any reports that clearly say whether anyone has actually learned more than they had learned without digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108164957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165000	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we believe that a study should be started on what is happening. We would like to do so in the future to see what is happening in the education system and not go very far back. We would like to look at it in the future, and you and I often get questions from journalists about whether there should be digitalisation and whether you should be allowed to use your phone in teaching etc. etc. That is why we sometimes have to feel a little bit forward about what it is that works, and that is why I think it is really, really good to start the investigation. However, as I said, there is also a great deal going on right now in relation to technology understanding, and I think we should, of course, wait and see if it has any effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165045	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we have come to Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165054	Thank you for the floor, President. And I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward an important and sensible motion for a resolution which we are debating here. And with this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party will require the government to initiate a study of the digital effort in the education system and to prepare a paper for a national strategy for digitalisation in the education system by the end of this year. With the proposal, Dansk Folkeparti wants a national strategy for digitalisation in the education system to ensure that technology is used in an appropriate way in the teaching of our schools. And I would like to start by saying that we in the Left really agree with that. As the authors of the proposal have also mentioned, we have, in the last 20 to 30 years, seen a huge development in the field of technology and, as a result, technology has also become a common feature of everyday life in probably all the schools in the country. And you could say that there is also a lot of money being invested in this. As I said, for this reason, I believe that a digital strategy for the education system will of course be appropriate, so that we also ensure the use of technology in teaching, and also that this is done in the most appropriate way in relation to learners' learning. Having said that, however, I am also convinced that such a strategy must be developed on an enlightened basis, and I do not think we have that yet. And that is why I want to say that we need more and more knowledge about how we can actually find this balance in relation to the use of technology in teaching. I am therefore also pleased that a proposal for a national digitisation strategy has now been launched towards the spring of 2019. With that said, the Left will not support this motion for a resolution, and I have also promised to welcome the Conservatives and to say that they do not agree with the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165323	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165328	Thank you for your comments. I'm sorry you can't support this proposal. I hear the rapporteur say that we lack knowledge, but the proposal we have put forward is, in fact, about starting to create the basis for that knowledge by going out and looking at: can we find some evidence of what works and what does not work as a starting point for drawing up a strategy? What the Left is arguing for right now is to start by making the strategy, where I think, as the rapporteur also calls for: could we not agree to start by finding the basis and finding out what is up and down in this, and then create a strategy that takes advantage of that knowledge when we have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165411	Well, of course, you can have different views on the order in which to do things. We have then chosen to do it in the opposite way, one might say. And then some experiments have been started. Among other things, I think there is a 3-year experiment going on here, and I also think it is important to keep up with what this results in. As the Minister also said, this is perhaps not so much the content of the resolution itself, but rather the approach we are opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165442	I would venture to claim that what we are proposing is such a very, very systematic approach, which is approaching the scientific, objective approach. But what I really want to ask is that at least some of the images that account for me are that we do not actually know whether we will have any learning effect of all the billions we put in schools in the municipalities. And then I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that we do not know what we are getting from our funds as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165514	Well, I totally agree that there is a lot of money invested in technology, in IT, around the municipalities. But I must also say that I actually have a feeling that this, among other things. is one of the things that is sometimes discussed across municipalities, and it would be perfectly natural for me, of course, to have an ongoing discussion of the KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165536	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108165548	•IT in the primary school has been too much about the purchase of iPads, learning platforms and electronic boards and too little about how digitalisation can create better teaching. This is what the chairman of the Danish Teacher's Association's Education Committee said in a speech on the Danish Teacher's Association's website some time ago. The criticism of the digital learning platforms in primary school has been unusually massive, I think rightly. But the critical look that has been there has not been left alone, it has actually taken place in many other places in our education system. I would therefore like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution to carry out a study that could serve as a basis for developing a national strategy for digitisation in our education system. I think that, in addition to what is contained in the proposal, it gives a very good opportunity to raise a critical debate on digitisation, which is absolutely not needed, because I think someone needs to be in doubt that digitisation has come to an end; not because I think anyone can be in doubt that digitisation can help raise quality and must be an essential element of a modern education system; but because there is a need for a debate on how we can politically ensure a better framework for development and how we can ensure, not least, active involvement and influence for, among other things. the thousands of employees working with the various digital learning tools and systems in everyday life. I think there is a need for a critical debate on the management of development, because, on the one hand, it may seem as though digitalisation is taking place in some areas too randomly and too unstructured, but, on the other hand, I would say that it is possible to get the impression that development is taking place, so to speak, far too planned, because it is taking place according to a plan not necessarily drawn up by the public authorities, but on the basis of plans formed by large private learning groups, whose primary task is to ensure optimum earnings on the company's education systems. Trafficking in IT-based education systems has become a huge billion-dollar business today, and there is such a need to look at how we prevent the whole digitalisation of the area from taking place through market management by private companies, but that we manage digitisation based on democratic decisions on how it should be integrated into our entire education system. I think that is an important perspective to take into account. I also think that we need to have a debate on how to prevent digitalisation going hand in hand with savings in education so that it is not used for purely saving purposes. And I think there is a need for a much stronger involvement of teachers and their organisations, so that we can avoid digitalisation leading to standardisation of teaching, which has been one of the massive criticisms in the field of primary education, where teachers have experienced neglect of their professionalism and digitalisation used to standardise teaching. It may well be that there is a significant difference between Enhedslisten's and Dansk Folkeparti's assessment when we get a spade in this way. I think there may be, but if so, it will have to come up with a test. However, we agree with many of the critical considerations contained in the proposal and, as a starting point, we believe that it would be sensible to carry out a study which could form the basis for a national strategy. I would like to say, as far as the culture of the past 30 years' digitalisation of the education system is concerned, that I am a little uncertain whether we will benefit from such a study, which is in line with the scale of resources, and whether we should not rather carry out a study that was a little more a mapping of the current situation and a more forward-looking one. But we are, in fact, very open to discussing it and I would be glad if we could have a deepening of the reflections on the perspective of the coal excavation. But, overall, we are very positive about the proposal and we look forward to discussing it in more detail in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170108	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170111	Thank you for your support. It is not because we are thinking that there should be a coal excavation of 30 years of investment, but more of a finding that for 30 years we have invested a great deal of money in this area without knowing exactly what we are getting out of it. I would really like to hear whether the Enhedslisten rapporteur could agree on whether, in relation to the investments we are making now and are making and have done in recent years, we could get the coal digging whether or not there is any learning and positive effect out of it. It should actually be in order to have a knowledge-based basis. The research findings we are seeing today indicate that we cannot say whether it has an effect or not, i.e. whether children learn more or perhaps even learn less from the fact that we use digital learning tools. We need that knowledge as a basis in order to be able to put forward a strategy for which way to go and how to do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170213	We are in favour of a study, but I think I might be a little worried about some of the perspectives that may lie in it, because I believe that we may in many places be subject to evidence thinking, such a view that if we just examine it thoroughly enough, we will get exactly what works and what does not work. That is why I would also like to say that one of the points outlined, namely the very first one, where there is a goal that the various digital interventions should be better comparable and measured, is one of the places where I would say that here we may have a clash in relation to how we think about it. However, I would have liked to say that this could be a debate on how to use such a study, how to use it, how to use it as a basis for discussing our different perceptions of how digitalisation is to take place. So I definitely think there will be some nuances there. I am worried about too strong a reflection of evidence, but it will not prevent us from supporting a study and then we will have to see what political conclusions we should draw from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170327	I hear what the rapporteur says, and I wonder whether we do not agree that it is essential that, in relation to the teaching methods used by teachers and used in the education system, we have some knowledge that they actually have a positive effect on what is being done. I also hear that, in the context of a possible report, we can have a dialogue on how we are doing this in a way that will enable us to benefit from it. Can the rapporteur confirm that it has been correctly heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170403	I can certainly confirm this last point, because we are very prepared to do so, and I do not see any immediate obstacle to our being able to arrive at common wordings. My first remark was that if we are to have a particular truth-seeking purpose in finding exactly the right way to use digitalisation, then I think we are going to get on a wrong track. If, on the other hand, we actively involve the many teachers who have gained many experiences, both positively, in terms of how it can play together with their professionalism in the way of handling the teaching, but also negatively, in other words where the many pitfalls can lie, then I think it can contribute to a sensible decision-making basis for how we proceed with digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170446	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170456	Thank you. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for presenting a really exciting motion for a resolution, which, of course, focuses on a very important agenda. There are many good reasons to focus on using IT and technology, not only in our education system, but also in this Chamber we have talked about productivity improvements in the education sector, and I personally believe that modern technology offers very great opportunities for completely new concepts on how to teach. There is a huge market for digital learning tools, and many exciting tools and learning platforms are being developed that we need to benefit from. But there is no doubt that there are many pitfalls in this and that technology is not just needed for the sake of technology. For a period of my life I have been very interested in the biggest public construction scandals ever, and until the computer was invented, they were all related to railway operations with unprofitable railway lines, which were operated only for 7 years or 9 years or something. However, after the computer was invented, all the biggest investment scandals in Danish history have been taken over by computers, which have thus displaced the locomotive from first place. The digitalisation of our health care has not been such a brilliant success, as the digitalisation of the tax administration may have been somewhat of a disappointment. On the other hand, we are one of the most digitised countries in Europe, and we do not need to go beyond Germany to see how undigitalised people are there and how much benefits we have there. In other words, this is an area in which we have to see that there are very great opportunities, but that there are also some very great dilemmas, and I think it is very positive that this is being brought up here. However, I also think that we have made more progress than the proposal fully reflects. I really think that we have got a minister for public innovation and that we have tried to get the whole work together to learn something from digitalisation, to do better and to benefit from our experience, perhaps being a little under-exposed, because a great deal of work is being done there. My clear impression is also that the whole design of IT projects and the whole consideration of cost-benefit have already been tightened up. Then there is also exciting research. Well, Jesper Balslev is probably the most researcher in it, and I also think I can recognise some of Jesper Balslev's results in the presentation to the B proposal. And you have to take him seriously, just as you have to take an interest in it internationally. One of my stick horses as an old teacher is that I prefer that people take notes in the hand because I think it is more effective than sitting on Facebook while being read, and there is also something in the research literature that suggests that. But a study of the last 30 years of digitalisation etc. is a bit violent for me, and that is why we hope that the DF will help to continue working on this very important agenda, which we also recognise as very important. However, as the proposal stands, we do not support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170848	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170851	Now I would like to repeat: it is not necessarily a pitfall of the last 30 years' effort, but perhaps more of the status of where we are today. However, it is always exciting to discuss with the rapporteur, and that is why I would like to ask a little more broadly whether the rapporteur could agree with the picture I can have of investing in digital learning systems in many places, in the belief that as long as it is digital, it is also good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108170923	I think that's very true. I would like to agree with that. But I think it should also be seen in a wider context. I read a frankly horrifying interview with Mr. Michael Ziegler, who wanted to digitize his municipality in a way that I can't understand at all. It was written in Weekendavisen not long ago. This whole underlying idea that if we don't digitize, it will be the case that what you learn now cannot be used in 5 years' time, etc., is deeply cliché-filled, and I am very opposed to it. I would almost say that if you teach in some way, so that what you teach is useless in five years, then you teach incorrectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171012	But that brings me to the next question. If we agree on that and that there is a challenge there, then what is Mr. Henrik Dahl's solution to how to move forward and solve some problems and get to grips with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171029	I really think that the public use of IT has got into a good deal of trouble with the fact that we have a Ministry of Innovation, and I really hope that, whatever happens after the election that is approaching, we will continue to have such a ministry that can anchor the way we work with it. But the mistakes that have been made in the education sector, I think, really have more to do with the wrong thinking of the time in which we live and how it is wise to teach than it has to do with a particular technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171102	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171110	Thank you. Thank you to the DF for presenting an excellent and very, very important motion for a resolution which tackles some of the challenges that we need to take on board: the whole digitalisation issue in the education system: where are we? Where have we been? Are we on the right track? We spend the money right and so on.? So we think that is very relevant. When my eldest son was in the 6th grade he's 18 now, so it's 6-7 years ago he went to one of the first classes where all the students got an iPad. It got this whole 6th grade class class. It was totally new then, and it really was the way they said: Wow, we get an iPad all together. And then it took 14 days or 1 month or so, and then they took these iPads from the students again, in addition to when they needed them in class, because in the recess areas and everywhere these students went and looked down at that iPad. They brought it everywhere, so it meant a great deal, not only for teaching, but also for the social environment and so on. It's a very good example that there may not have been so many thoughts behind that about giving these students an iPad. But now you could, and of course the school was given them. It was some kind of experiment funded by Apple, it probably has been. It was just to tell that story. We are in favour of the motion for a resolution. We agree that perhaps we should sit down and talk about what exactly is going to form the framework for this desire for a study. Now we have talked about the 30 years several times, so I will not mention that again. I was sprinkling about it, too. But another thing that is not included among the issues mentioned here, which I think may be missing, is: What does digitalisation mean or the increased use of social media and digital tools in general, for example. for the children's deepness? This is, of course, one of the things we have just put money into in the health pool negotiations, namely to finance what is called the digital health centre to be set up. In fact, the Centre for Digital Health needs to work to find out what the digital platforms are all about for our health, among other things. our ability to immerse and our sleep. I'd think that was relevant to bring in here. An important part of the children's school day is what it means for their health. So it's more to say, let's look at exactly what to say. But we are clearly in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171348	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171358	Thank you. I've been chewing on this motion for a resolution a little bit. On the one hand, I very much agree with the Danish People's Party that we need more knowledge and, in fact, a more strategic approach to this, but on the other hand, I do not think I can really think of a single agreement we have made where there has not been a section on digitisation. Because we are already working on all the different areas we are dealing with. Now all the parties in here, except Enhedslisten, have been together to create this new centre for digital health, which Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier also mentioned, which will give us knowledge of what it really does to children, but of course also to us adults to be on all the time; what it means to our physical and mental health, our ability to concentrate and our sleep. Basically, we all need sometimes to turn off and be completely disconnected and immerse ourselves and sometimes also bore ourselves because things go slow. On the other hand, I also feel that sometimes it will be a little easy if we, as adults, just decide that now there can be no phones or iPads or other things at all, because then you don't use all the good things. And how are children supposed to learn how to deal with these things wisely if the adults have just made the decision for them? In this way I do not share, for example. the view of the Minister of Education on the use of the Internet for exams. I think that's very old-fashioned. So in this way I certainly think that this whole issue of digitisation is one of what we are going to discuss, both in terms of research, but also to a large extent politically how to deal with what is good and what is bad. So I do not really know exactly what to think about this resolution. Others have also mentioned this, and it may not make any sense for me to vote in favour of it as it stands. But let's see if we can agree on a text in committee, because of course we have to work on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171624	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108171633	Thank you. When I was chairman of the Children's Committee in Køge Municipality, I once attended a meeting with Køge Municipality's director of children and young people. He came to tell me that we should put some money off for iPads in these day offers, and then he put out some specific day offers in front of me. And then I asked, why? And then he said that the educators thought it was a good idea. And then I tried to figure out why the educators thought it was a good idea. And it was because there were some others who had iPads, and who thought it was going really well with those iPads. And I actually spent a lot of time on it and these people thought I was a little annoying. Why did I keep asking what they needed those iPads for? But in reality I think it was a very good example of the iPad wave pouring over us and that we simply couldn't spend enough money pumping iPads into schools. While class ratios increased and teachers' average teaching time increased, iPads were pumped out, and then we thought everything was good. It is also not long ago that I was in a municipality, where one of the first things they told when they told proudly about their school system was that they were thus an iPad municipality. I also remember working at a school that had just spent a lot of money on, I think it was whiteboards before it became smartboards. I felt a bit like cities that have been left behind because those whiteboards hung there and were never used anything but in the free quarters, where the students could dance in front of them for such youtube videos. And a lot of money has been spent on them. What I'm trying to say with these stories is that I've always felt so little about the digital thing that it fell over us and nobody thought about what we were doing. And today I am actually quite concerned about that, especially in relation to the well-being of our children. Because who's gonna teach our kids how to handle this? I experience that there are some people on the way to learning now, but for the generation I am out of, there was no one to help us. On the contrary, the teachers themselves stood just and had received a new iPad or phone and had to try it off, so they didn't just have time to teach us something similar to digital education. So I think it's really important to talk about this. And I think it's really important to do something about this. There are some of the points in the proposal which I think are wise. I think it is very wise to focus on didactics and how we can strengthen teacher training so that they can get out and help our children manage the digital. I think it is really wise that you just start thinking about why we should have the digital. Well, I actually feel like if you're in doubt, don't. And there has not been that approach at least. There is a description that there must be some quality assurance. I can get a little worried about that. At least we need to figure out how to define what is quality. Because I can say that there are also ministers of education and people in the good Ministry of Education who have had a definition of quality which I may not think is quality. And who's gonna define it? So this is certainly an exciting debate. And then I do not necessarily think it would be so beneficial, but there has also been a little debate about that here, so that you have to go back 30 years in history to try to find out what has happened and how it has affected us. So let's talk about it. So what I'm trying to say is that in the research reserve money has been set aside to investigate technology and children and what technology does to children. I can hear that there is, in fact, also in the bet pool. This is a fantastic example of the many pools we have in here at Christiansborg. What can be the result of good results? I see that this is something that the Minister of Education is also focusing on, and I think that the best way out of this proposal, which I actually hear that many people are interested in, will be to sit down together and discuss whether we can agree on something that needs to be set in motion in order to see how we avoid municipalities making themselves iPad municipalities, without any thought at all about it, in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172042	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172045	Thank you. It may be said that my background for entering into the discussion on this proposal is in fact some of the same experiences that Mr. Jacob Mark has had, that is, the fact that something is widely used blindly because it is now just defined as good. There's something I'd like to ask you about. When we write that we want to define the quality and that we want to have quality assurance of the things that are being used, it is about what it is like to be able to assess the huge market that lies as a teacher or teacher. There are a lot of people who would like to make money making some products for this, and there we would like to have some kind of quality control, so that you go in and say: Well, can this contribute to positive learning? What are the prerequisites for this? And in what context can it be used? This must be done in a standardised way so that, like the person who has to buy it, you have a basis for assessing it. 'Cause I don't think we can train all the buyers or teachers around here who have to choose from this. They must have a basis to choose from. So if that's what the definition is, sir. So Jacob Mark will help you figure out how to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172201	So, I would like to help make it more transparent for teachers and school leaders out there, as to how they buy in in a proper way, so that they know that what they buy is quality, without us completely deciding exactly what they have to buy. I've been thinking a little bit about how we're gonna get on with this. In my view, three things can be done: one can try to draw up a report in committee and try to agree on some points; one can ask the Minister to call a debate and one can then ask nicely about it; or one can change the B proposal so that it says that one calls for negotiations on it, instead of saying that one adopts exactly this. I would really like to think that the most friendly thing is for us to sit down quietly and try to discuss whether there is any of this that we can agree on and what it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172251	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172259	Thank you. When we in the Danish People's Party have tabled this motion for a resolution, it is about our concern. We are really concerned about what we are doing with our children, and also students and students in youth education and long-term higher education, in relation to the way digitalisation is used and has been used. In the last 30 years, and it is not because we have to bury all 30 years, but it is just an observation that there has been an increasing digitisation of the education system. A wide range of different IT tools, equipment and programs kept their entry into the country's classrooms, and smartboards, e- and i-books, apps, tablets and virtual lessons have been purchased. Billions of crowns have been spent on digital learning tools at a higher and higher pace. The digital effort has certainly taken place on the basis of the best intentions to make our school students more skilled. It should promote learning, resourceless learners through digital learning means should be raised professionally, the innovative pages of the students should sprudle, homework and the professional material should be more smart, inviting and more accessible to the learners. However, the question we are just asking is whether the effect of the digitisation process has not remained unchanged. Is there any evidence that the use of IT promotes learning? There is a great deal of research that we have fallen over, which problems the negative, unintended consequences of the use of IT in relation to teaching. For example, there are neurological implications, i.e. that it affects children's memory and concentration. And it's nice that you set aside funds in the bet pool to go in and look at some of this. The research supports, among other things, that an old-fashioned approach with note technology using paper and pencil and reading on printed paper media actually surpasses digital learning means in terms of learning. So we just have to note that there is also growing concern in society about digitalisation. We certainly recognise the digital learning tools, i.e. that there are opportunities in it, both professional and didactic and educational. But we also see an increasing need to be critical. That is why I welcome today's debate. Of course, I had hoped that there was such a broad approach now that we would all just support it. But when there is no such thing, I really hear a broad recognition that there is a challenge in this area. I can also see that I myself have been involved in allocating funds to the research reserve, and those who have been included in the rate pool have also helped to allocate funds that can be used in relation to doing this research. I hear a minister saying that a strategy is being drawn up, and that is why I see that there is an excellent basis for us to be able to influence the Minister together in relation to the strategy being devised and to ensure that it takes account of the problems which I think are quite clear in this context. So, of course, on the basis of this, I will go further in trying to get a report that we can hopefully come up with in broad agreement so that we can move on and take these issues seriously. Because that is the core of it, that is, that there are some challenges here that we have to solve for the good of our children and all those who need to be taught in this country. So thank you very much for the debate and I look forward to the report and I look forward to the strategy we will then be able to see in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172630	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172646	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108172707	The Danish People's Party has with motion for a resolution No. B 16 proposal requiring the government to draw up an action plan for people with disabilities in the education system by the end of this year. Let me start by saying that the government agrees with the ambition of the proposal. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that it is important for people with disabilities to receive training so that they can get a job. The government fully agrees with this and it is important that people with disabilities can receive an education on an equal footing with everyone else. It is a fundamental principle of our education system that everyone should have equal access to education, not least in the case of people with disabilities. Proposers indicate that people with disabilities are experiencing a number of challenges that make their way through the education system difficult. I would like to qualify that premise. Today, people with disabilities have the opportunity for individual adjustment of training courses and various forms of support on their way through the education system. In primary school it is the responsibility of the school to ensure that all pupils with disabilities receive the necessary support. It can, for example, be done. be special education, special aids, health education or adapted test conditions. In the same way, a youth education institution must take into account the individual pupil in e.g. adapt the test conditions or extend the training course. Students in higher education may apply for disability allowances in addition to their SU, and higher education institutions may offer students special test conditions, and higher education institutions may also derogate from student activity requirements for students with disabilities. The State also administer the so-called SPS schemes, where pupils and students with special needs can receive special educational support. It can, for example, be done. be special aids which can equate a student or student with the other classmates or fellow students, they may be support hours or a support person who can help the student or student through the course, or they may be special teaching materials in upper secondary education or higher education. The Government has also initiated a series of improvements for people with disabilities in the field of education. In the context of the new preparatory initial training, the Government has put forward legislative proposals for the introduction of special educational support schemes in the field of initial and basic adult and continuing training. This week, the government has signed up to support development projects on how the practical organisation of education in sport can ensure that pupils with disabilities can participate in the teaching and test the subject. This is an example of the government supporting municipalities and schools in organising teaching for pupils with disabilities. With the Rate Pool Agreement, the government and the Rate Pool Parties have agreed that two new ASF classes will be established in the upper secondary school field, where young people with a diagnosis in autism spectrum disorders can receive a secondary education. We have also provided in the State Pool a framework of 40 million. kr. to improve the integration and transition from study to other training or employment. At the same time, the Government has set up a working group to examine people with disabilities' opportunities to carry out vocational training on equal terms with other pupils. In addition, the government is looking at apostasy for students with disabilities and the dispensation practice of higher education institutions. Overall, there are good opportunities for people with disabilities to get an education, but I would like to acknowledge that there may be a lack of an overall overview of interventions for people with disabilities in the education system. Therefore, the government has agreed with the pool parties that 17.5 million will be allocated over the next four years. kr. to develop initiatives for an action plan for people with disabilities in the education system. However, an action plan should not be rushed through, and since the resolution requires the government to finalise an action plan by the end of this year, the government cannot support the proposal. Instead, the government will launch work on an action plan that can be ready by the end of this parliamentary year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173123	Thank you, Minister. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173127	Thank you very much for the Minister's statement. We fully agree that there are a lot of things going on, and that is very good, and that in many areas we get to grips with some of these issues, and that is also very nice. At the heart of it and it is also just before the Minister says it, but I would like to confirm that there are still gaps; there are still things that do not work well enough, and there is still a need for a comprehensive action plan for this process. And when I hear the Minister say that the reason why the government cannot support the proposal is that we have too short a time limit on the action plan, I would just like to know if, if we extend the deadline for the action plan, we have the government's agreement to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173211	I'd like to acknowledge, sir. Jens Henrik Thulensen Dahl's efforts in this area all the time I've been serving as a minister. The rapporteur has been very, very focused on helping citizens with disabilities through the education system. I agree with the rapporteur that what we are missing is an overview, and that is why, as I said in my speech, we will start work on an action plan which can be ready before the end of this parliamentary year. So we cannot support the proposal, but would like to make an action plan, just as the rapporteur proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173253	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we now turn to the rapporteurs, and the first to have access to the microphone is Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173309	Thank you for that, President. And thank you again to the Danish People's Party for putting something very important on the agenda here about the disabled in the education system. Just like for the Danish People's Party, this is heartblood for us. We think that everyone should have the opportunity to take an education, whether you have a disease or not. It is the case that we have also been caught up with a little of everyday life, we have been caught up with a bit of the pool agreement, because it contains money for a disability policy action plan in the field of education, and that is what we think is very good. There were many other initiatives in the stake pool negotiations, including: that you should have these two extra classes in upper secondary education; the capacity of the autism spectrum was increased. We would very much like to see these classes expanded with some more diagnoses, a slightly wider uptake, so that people with asperger, adhd, tourette and anxiety and depression might also have an opportunity. In addition, our health policy rapporteur has fought for perhaps four new classes to be introduced so that it could be spread a little more geographically across the country. There is a very great willingness among young people to take up youth education, which is why it is also important that we make opportunities for them. It is the case that two initiatives have also been set in motion, something that I myself have fought for, and this is about when young people with disabilities have to go to the exam in sport. Two initiatives have been approved to cater for pupils with disabilities in connection with participation and examination in the subject of sport at primary school. And I think this is extremely important because it should form the basis for the rest of the school system. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party recognise that there is a challenge here about the opportunities of disabled people in the Danish education system. And people with disabilities must have the same opportunities to take education as the rest of the population, and that is why we think it is also a major issue. We also believe that everyone should have equal opportunities. People with disabilities are already more difficult on the part of nature to cope with more aspects of life, which is why we need to take extra care of them so that they can feel as important as everyone else in society. We are a little concerned that all these fine proposals are contained in one motion for a resolution. Perhaps it is just fresh enough to approve it in a resolution. There are many of these things that we have brought to the negotiating table already, among others. This whole thing about getting credit for absenteeism if you have a chronic illness. This is a major problem because the hospitals are going to be further away, and therefore it also takes longer, so you need more time as chronically ill. I have brought that to the negotiating table several times. And there are many of the good initiatives here. I think that together we should go to the negotiating table and look at the individual proposals. We need to look at what the reforms we have made are like, and then we need to find out how we can do it there each. So, unfortunately, we will have to vote no, but the initiatives and what is stated in this proposal we would like to discuss, and we would also like to discuss it in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173632	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173636	I would like to sign for the positive approach. It is quite true that there are a lot of measures being taken, and somewhere we may be slightly overtaken, but I still believe that the overall picture is needed. Therefore, I would just like to confirm from the Social Democratic Party whether one could be prepared to go in and have a report that actually picks up on this and describes a comprehensive plan for how we move forward so that we actually keep the pressure and ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173707	The social democracy has a really good cooperation with DF in this area, and we have also collaborated a lot around the studio and the problems that are around the young people who take a living room. We think there are a lot of good issues in this. We cannot say yes to it in a motion for a resolution and that money has been placed there, so we have to look at it in the reforms. But we would like to be involved in producing a report in committee, so I would like to make that clear here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173734	The questioner? The questioner doesn't want to use the second time. Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind and welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108173747	Thank you, President. With this resolution that we are discussing now, the Danish People's Party is instructing the government to present an action plan on how the government will address the challenges of people with disabilities in the education system by the end of this year. I have to say that I actually thought that now that we got the pool negotiations in place, it might be that the Danish People's Party actually chose to withdraw this motion for a resolution. Because I have to say, when I read in the note here about all the good things that are actually precisely in terms of how we ensure that people with disabilities can also receive education, that it may be that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl simply chooses to withdraw the proposal, because it is also written in relation to drawing up an action plan. Having said that, however, I would like to say that this is also really, really important for the Left, and I hope that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will be able to feel it when he sits in the negotiating room over at the Minister for Employment, because this is of enormous importance to us too. I simply believe that we owe it to people with disabilities who experience some disadvantages in their daily lives in the educational institutions, that they tackle it and that they resolve it. So I would say that there are many of the things that, fortunately, have also been put in place across the parties to the agreement in the pool negotiations that warm my heart. I can say quite specifically that there is an example of a disabled worker in an ATE department in Billund having had difficulties in continuing to bring the aids to work after he had reached retirement age. He wanted to continue, but could not be allowed to keep his aids, and that is among other things. Some of the things that the Minister of Employment is now beginning to change, of course. I believe that this action plan is important, and that is why I am actually supporting the vast majority of what is in this resolution, but I think it is important to say that it has already been set aside, among other things. 17.5 million kr. to develop initiatives on the action plan. There are, for example: If I am going to take another subject, 40 million will also be set aside. kr. to ensure better transitions in the room, and I actually think that is one of the things that is really, really important. We will not be supporting this resolution, but I would really like to offer the Danish People's Party that we may be able to make a joint report during the committee procedure. At least that is what we in the Left are doing. In this case too, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174113	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174119	Thank you very much for your comments. It is true that you could have said that now there is something in the bet pool, so we draw it. We do not do so because, in fact, I think it is right, very important, on the one hand, to take the debate open and have the talk here today, and, on the other hand, because there may also be a need to ensure the whole breadth. As has been said before, the 28 proposals we have in this proposal go very, very broadly, but what is central is actually to say that there is a need to keep pressure on all areas, and I hope that too, and I hear that the rapporteur agrees. In other words, this is so important that we need to find a way to ensure that we stick to it and make sure that something happens from the one who goes to a university education to the one who is going to go to a studio no one mentioned, no one forgotten in that way. So if we have that agreement, I'll be happy to leave here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174215	I can at least say, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we in the Left would certainly like to make a joint report in this area, including with the Danish People's Party. I also think it is important, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, to stick to the pressure, and we must ensure that this is also achieved. At any rate, these are the intentions that I feel we have in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174246	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and warmly welcome Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174256	What I have to say about this proposal can basically be brief; there is no need to wrap up the views. We think in the Enhedslisten, it is an exceptionally good proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward. By the time we reach July next year, it will be 10 years since Denmark ratified the UN Disability Convention, but far too far away is still in the field before we can say that we are fulfilling the obligations laid down in Article 24 of the Convention, which concerns the right of people with disabilities to education. There are far too many areas where the necessary steps have not been taken to ensure equal access to education, and I think it is very important that we recognise that it is not enough for there to be formal equal access. If there is not the necessary support, if there are not the right tools, if there is not the extra time required, there may be formal equal access to training, but not really equal access to training. The statistics on education show with all reasonable clarity that as a society we are not doing well enough. There is a significantly smaller proportion of people with disabilities who have vocational training than people without disabilities, and what is particularly serious, and I have also noted that the Danish People's Party has written in their paper with the 28 points, is that we can see that it has actually gone the wrong way and that, when we compare with the figures from 2011, there are actually fewer disabled people with an education. You have specifically shown the statistics for the 30-40-year-olds, and you can see that the proportion of people with disabilities who have an education has simply declined. It's a bad thing. In the Enhedslisten we have looked through the 28 proposals thoroughly, and we actually agree with them all 28. Should there be a single place where I could point out that something is missing, I would say that we had a lot of debate on the proposal we were discussing from the Minister for Social Affairs on the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities, and there we would have been delighted to see that we had had a fair adaptation in the proposal, and we had an idea, which we shared with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in this area, that we could not get reasonable adaptation written in as a general provision, perhaps we could have it in the field of education. Then there should be room for a point 29 on the list, perhaps it could be. However, thank you for a very good resolution. We can support the proposal. I welcome the alternative and say that they also support the proposal. Should the debate go the way that the Danish People's Party does not put it to the vote, we would of course also like to support the fact that a report is being produced which promotes the intentions of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174617	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174626	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, very difficult to disagree with the ideas behind the motion for a resolution. I fully agree that it is very important for people with disabilities to have access to training in line with those who do not have a disability. Where agreement may end is at the premise below, which is that this should not be the case today. The government has taken a large number of initiatives in this area in more than one ministry, and the Minister has already reviewed some of the initiatives taken to ensure that people with disabilities can take an education. There is also funding for an action plan in this area, which I think is a good idea for us to wait for. Of course we have the greatest sympathy for the resolution, but we cannot support it, but of course we will go constructively into a committee and work on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174750	You're welcome, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174802	Thank you. When you sit at home on the couch watching TV and watching Danish politics, you sometimes have to get the impression that you can hardly get further away from each other than the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party are. However, there is one area in which we are in fact in complete agreement, where we have worked closely together for many years and where we will also continue to hold on to the fact that something more needs to be done because we have the same concern that all young people must of course have the opportunity to take an education, regardless of their disability. When we were in government, we looked, among other things. On disability allowances and on the rules for special educational support, but there is still a long way to go, and when, for example, we get there. hear stories about young people who get caught up in absence because they have some periods where they can't control themselves, whether they're sick for a few days or longer, then there's something we still have to look at away. That is why I also tried to listen a little bit to what some parties were actually opposed to this. I didn't actually quite understand what the Left's argument was. I also heard the Minister of Education say that if you just said that you had the whole parliamentary year to it and not just to New Year, you could actually see yourself in it. I would like to say that I would like to be the one who is tabling an amendment which gives a little more time, if that is what is needed, so that we can all actually get together on this motion for a resolution, because I fully agree with what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says: there is a need to maintain pressure. That is why the Radical Left would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174943	I have to say mojn, mojn to Lotte Rod, there are no brief remarks. And welcome to Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108174952	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to make an action plan for people with disabilities in the education system, and the action plan must contain a lot of important things ranging from strengthened guidance efforts to the establishment of ongoing mentoring schemes; a disability allowance so that you get a better economy; more flexibility and organisation of tests in a way that, like making it easier to go up to the examinations and also more things than that. Much has been said about this, and I actually think I just want to say that now I am relatively new in the Folketing, I have had my first period here, and I have actually often been puzzled at how little one does for people with disabilities when it comes to education. I have not known much about the area, and then I have come across the fact that they are not getting any supplements and are actually in a very difficult economic situation; that they are not getting a derogation for some crazy demand that they should have sport, even if they have a physical injury; that they cannot get the help that they have obviously been searched for because they are inside the educational system; that we leave them here a little to themselves, after they have taken the start of an education; so such things, where you just think: it makes no sense, if we want all people in Denmark to have good conditions for taking an education. I really think the Danish People's Party has done a very good job by trying to pick up some of the things that one should obviously change. And I think it is a very good idea to draw up an action plan to change it so that more people are given the opportunity to take an education. I think it will be difficult to have an expiry date even before New Year's, but we will vote in favour of the proposal and are also willing to talk to the government about what needs to be done, what date it will then have to take, so that it can realistically be done. However, the proposal as it stands is a very, very good proposal which I think could help a great many young people who have been left behind in the past. So we're for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108175203	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108175222	Thank you very much for the debate. Now we have had two resolutions and both of our proposals end up so little that the government goes up and says they are in the process of drawing up an action plan in this area. And I can only welcome the fact that so much has been listened to. It has also been mentioned a few times that within the rate pool yesterday an agreement was made that offers some options and provides some funds for this. However, when we have the debate today, and when I think it is really important, it is all about this being a very broad area, and I very much hope that we can, in broad agreement, make a report on this, which actually says that we have to deal with a lot of places where things need to be put in; there are some of our proposals that relate to SU that belong in an SU conciliation group; there is something that obviously belongs in a ministry, in terms of making some rules simpler; and that we can actually agree that we need to get hold of all these points and find a way to get it implemented. In fact, I hear that there is broad support for that. There is a slightly different recognition of how big the problems are today, but one can say that if we sit and have to solve something that is not a problem, then it is also easy to resolve, and then it cannot be expensive to solve. In any case, the government must be involved when there are not so many problems. Then it's easy to go on with it. So I would actually just like to conclude that I am very pleased with the debate, that I am very pleased with the support of a great many parties and that I will go ahead with a report that will stick to this and ensure that we also take advantage of, among other things. the funds that are in the rate pool for something really sensible and get some good results out of it. Because it deserves young people with disabilities who are struggling to get through and get an education. Thank you for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108175416	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Then it usually sounds like a resounding no. However, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108175438	The debate is open. The first person to speak is... are we that far down the line? Yes, we give the floor to the first in line, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108175534	Thank you. Let this be a sign of how the distribution will be in relation to the holding of rapporteur speeches after the next elections. As business rapporteur for the Left back in 2010 and 2011, I tried to get an overview of all the business promotion initiatives in Denmark, and this was partly because back in the 2005-2007 term I was also a research rapporteur. I have to say that I have really tried very hard on what we tried with some very, very large pieces of paper but I simply had to give up because it was too incalculable to find around all the different measures, all the different schemes, all the different options that were available. That is why I was very pleased when the Left Government announced in its government base from June 2015 that a service was to be provided to the entire business promotion area. A dyke report came out of this at the end of 2016, which subsequently led to the establishment of the Simplifying Committee on Enterprise Promotion, which made their recommendations in April of this year. On the basis of these recommendations and political discussions and political considerations in relation to the recommendations made, the government and the Danish People's Party then concluded a political agreement in May, namely an agreement on simplifying the business promotion system. The purpose of our business promotion efforts is quite simply that it should be easy to be an entrepreneur and easy to be a trader in Denmark, and that it should be easy to obtain the appropriate advice and assistance in order to strengthen the development of the company where the public sector has that task. In the past there have been too many overlaps and there has not been enough focus on real business needs. With the proposal for the new Business Promotion Act, we first of all reduce the number of politically responsible levels from three to two. Local authorities will continue to be the local focal point for companies, because proximity and local knowledge are central. The more specialised business advice is moved from the greenhouses to new business houses, where the target group is not only growth companies, as is the case today, but all companies. With the business houses, which are placed around Denmark with the agreement, access to the more specialised advice becomes more accessible to everyone. The agreement with the KL must ensure that there are no overlapping efforts, as is unfortunately the case today. In the business houses, highly specialized state schemes will also be available • it is about the Export Council, the Growth Fund and the Innovation Fund. As far as access to capital is concerned, efforts are concentrated under the Growth Fund, i.e. one entry to that part of the public business promotion which concerns the ability of companies to access various loans and the provision of equity; today the effort is spread out among several players. In terms of access to grant pools for innovation, development and demonstration, it is grouped under the Innovation Fund. The agreement establishes a digital platform for business promotion, which will provide businesses with 24-hour access to information, guidance and digitised services on start-up, operation and business development, etc. The platform must also provide an overview of the many offers offered by the business promotion system. The Danish Business Promotion Board will be established to replace the six regional growth forums and Denmark's Growth Council, and the Danish Business Promotion Board will ensure a coherent and not least demand-driven and locally anchored effort. Another element of the agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party is a follow-up to the six recommendations of the National Tourism Forum for a focused tourism effort from April this year. For many small efforts, overlapping efforts and non-cooperation, the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed that the municipal tourism effort should be consolidated in line with the recommendations of the National Tourism Forum in 15 to 25 destination companies, so that efforts are made more in cooperation with several municipalities, and the process is agreed between the government and KL, and there will be plenty of time to find the right collaboration constellations, for the process will not be completed until the end of 2020. At national level, specialized competence must continue to be made available; the region's financing of Wonderful Copenhagen and the tourism development companies Danish Coast and Nature Tourism and Danish Business and Meeting Tourism will be transferred to the Ministry of Business with a view to continuing the activities. The third legislative proposal we are discussing is a consequence of the agreement that when we transfer the task of managing the EU Structural Funds from the regional growth forums and transfer them to the Danish Business Promotion Board, we must of course also ensure that the legislation in relation to the administration of regional and social fund funds is amended in accordance with the agreement. All in all, we in the Left believe that this is a really good reform, which focuses more on the real needs of companies, ensures more targeted action and an effort that is not overlapping and with which some of the examples you encounter will hopefully be removed. So we basically think that it is a very good basis for agreement that is for this legislation, and of course we warmly support that on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180045	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180048	Why have government parties chosen to keep it here as a completely narrow agreement, only with its parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party? It is, of course, a relatively large change in the whole business promotion system that has been made here, and I would immediately say that companies are asking for stability when making such major changes, because this business promotion system is of great importance to many companies. I am therefore surprised that such a narrow agreement has been reached and that efforts have not been made to reach a broader agreement which, by its very nature, will also be better maintained in the future, so that companies will know what they are dealing with in 2, 3, 4 years' time or for that matter in 10 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180142	Well, I agree that it is always an advantage to make broad agreements. It was also the ambition of the government and the ambition of the Left. A number of negotiating meetings were held, particularly with the Social Democrats and the Radicals, but it was not possible to get the ends to meet. I would prefer that we can make good deals with Left Glasses and broad agreements, but I would rather have a good but narrow agreement than a bad and broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180217	In any case, I note that the Enhedslisten was never invited to the negotiations. We are really a little too sorry about that, because we think we could have contributed. It may well be that there had been some political disagreements, and then there had to be, but the fact that there are not even any negotiations being invited to take place, I nevertheless find it remarkable, and I think it is a pity that this has not happened. That is more of a comment I make here. After all, there is a risk of a change of government having consequences. At any rate, we have clear wishes for the business promotion system, and there we could of course put pressure on another party, another government, if we had a change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180303	As I said, it is always an advantage if it is possible to obtain a broad majority behind the agreements we make, but sometimes we just have to see that the political disagreement is too great. In this situation, it can be said that part of the agreement is more or less based on the government's economic agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, and although I would like to do so, the board of the local authorities' association is unfortunately not just made up of the Left. There are also representatives of the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party, who are also part of the agreement, and many others. So in this way, through the agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, there is a slightly wider anchoring. But I am really glad that we have landed a very good agreement and, of course, it would have been nice if there had been more who had supported it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180344	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180353	As Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen knows, I have criticised the fact that no independent business house has been created in Central and West Jutland. I would like to hear what the Left and the Left as a party think: would you have been ready to create an independent business house in Central and West Jutland if you could have obtained a majority for it within the agreement you chose to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180418	We made an agreement back in May when it was distributed and, indeed, there we had to bend towards each other. Some things were fulfilled, others we did not, and I probably do not reveal any state secret by saying that the Left would have liked to see there had been a business house in Herning. However, we have entered into a political agreement and we agree to it which means that there is a branch in Herning under the business house in Aarhus a bit in the same way as is the case today, where there is also a branch in Herning under the greenhouse in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180455	Then I would like to thank Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. It was an atypical start we had, and I would like to say that, as a former electoral director at a small local polling station, I always read the Rules of Procedure for votes. And when the votes were finished, I should go out to the flagpole and shout to the west, to the east, to the south and to the north: are there more voters here who want to cast their vote? If not, sir. Thomas Jensen had come in now, I would have asked: are there social democrats present? And I can see that there is, which is why we are giving him the floor now. Unfortunately, we have, I would say to Mr. Thomas Jensen, had to give Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen to speak before the Socialist rapporteur. But welcome to Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108180549	Thank you, President. Sometimes you set the alarm clock to ring when you take a little nap in your office. And then you have to remember to set the volume on your phone at a certain level so you can hear it too. But I slept well, thank you. Now I am awake and I can tell you that in the spring we Social Democrats were standing with smoked sleeves and ready to weed out into the jungle of overlapping schemes that characterise the business promotion area today. Because that is what is needed. Companies must, of course, be better able to understand the system we have in Denmark, and there is also a clear need for fewer players and stronger clusters and less administration, fewer overlaps and a greater degree of digitisation. But where we want to simplify and increase the quality and maintain the strong regional and municipal anchoring of the effort, then the government will once again go down the road of centralisation. And so far, the responsibility for business promotion in Denmark has been so arranged that it has been divided between state, regions and municipalities. But the government and the Danish People's Party have written the regions out of the equation with a very narrow settlement, and this is unfortunately a loss for Danish business. Because by centralising the business promotion effort at such raised-down tables in the state there is an imminent danger of losing the sense of business life, which of course is marked by whether they are located in Slagelse, Silkeborg, Kolding or in the City of Meat in Copenhagen, thus also losing the local knowledge and regional overview, which is essential in promoting the professions targeted. During the negotiations in the spring, a large number of prominent personalities in the Danish business community have done their bit to shout up the government with the message that it is wrong to flush out the regions with the bathing water. Danfoss, Grundfos, MAN Diesel, Legoland, Lalandia, the regions, the deans of the technical and scientific universities of the country and Danish vocational schools have all been out in public and appealing to the government to act. But in various ways they have pointed out that the regions have been the glue of decentralized partnerships between companies, research and training institutions, municipalities and so far the regions, which have created new opportunities for growth and development throughout the country. Indeed, the reality is full of decentralized partnerships which so strengthen the opportunities of business. Just look at the partnerships behind the offshore industry in Esbjerg, behind the middle and west Jutland wind turbine industry and behind the start-up at the Center for Industrial Electronics on Als. They are all magnificent examples of how to promote the professions and regional development effectively, when you know what is moving locally and regionally, and therefore can bring the right people together. Therefore, it is a loss and not an expression of simplification that the regions with these legislative proposals are largely written out of business promotion efforts in Denmark. And with the regions outside the door, it is the government's intention that in future the state should translate EU funds into regional development, the so-called Structural Funds. It is a strange area to centralise, as the whole idea behind regional development funds is that they should be translated into regional partnerships. And it appears from the consultation note that the European Commission has given the green light to centralisation, so I would ask the Minister to provide evidence of this during the committee procedure. One of the strengths of Danish business promotion is that there has so far been close cooperation between the knowledge institutions, industry and the business promotion system at regional level. The strength consists of networks with knowledge of each other and dialogue. The responses from Danske Universiteter, DTU and TEK-NAT to the dean's College indicate major concerns about the centralisation of the business promotion. The TEK-NAT dean college says that the proposal largely removes the knowledge and training institutions in the future business promotion effort, and it is also strongly concerned that the government removes the regions as key players in Danish business promotion. DTU is concerned that centralisation will hamper dialogue between knowledge institutions, stakeholders and regional innovation environments and businesses. In short, Danish universities foresee a weakening of university participation in business promotion. The Minister's brief answer to this is that there is a place for the knowledge institutions in the Danish Business Promotion Board. I think that the Minister thereby shows a total lack of understanding that the strength of having a regional anchoring of parts of the business promotion effort is that proximity, networking and dialogue is a force that ensures that knowledge from the research world becomes products, processes and services that create growth and productivity in Danish business. The removal of the regions is a mistake which will damage growth in Denmark. A major crux of the government's centralisation of the business promotion system is based on the fact that municipal business services are to be replaced by increased digitisation with an IT system that is not expected to be ready when the old business promotion system is now in place at the end of the year. When the law enters into force on 1 January 2019, companies will have to wait 1⁄2 years on the digital platform, which among other things. to replace the decentralised business promotion effort in the municipalities. And it is difficult to see why the business promotion agreement should be rushed through this way in the spring when the IT system, such as: to replace the municipal business promotion, only starts mid- 2019 and is only finished after a number of years. Where will local businesses that have been removed from local business promotion go to get business services from 1 January until mid- 2019? I'm just asking. And what is involved in the words launching the IT system? Is it a blank web page on July 1st, or what can companies expect will be in place? And when can companies expect www.virk.dk to be fully developed so that it can best replace the municipal business service? The Social Democratic Party would like to see the development of the new IT system better elucidated, which is why we will invite the Minister in open consultation with the Danish Parliament's Business Committee, so that we will have more certainty about what companies can expect in this IT venture. Is this another public IT project that will cause companies trouble and trouble before it is finished, and what is the time horizon for the IT system? Then we come to the parliamentary side. I think it is unheard of that the government chooses to make such a large deal as parliamentaryally narrow with the Danish People's Party as we see with the business promotion system. The Social Democracy and the Radical Left sat in the negotiations very late to ensure that regions, knowledge institutions and regional networks, which are so important for growth throughout the country, should remain a focal point of Danish business promotion. Such a narrow parliamentary agreement throws the business support system, companies and employees in municipalities and regions into a very uncertain future. The government departs from the common understanding, which is otherwise between the Social Democrats and the government, that it is important that we bow to each other and make broad business reconciliations so that they can hold over a possible parliamentary election. It has the quality that several Danes are represented in the agreements and that companies have stable framework conditions in key areas, regardless of whether power should change. It is also the case that the Minister who concluded the agreement was very, very busy in getting the agreement in place. It surprised us during the negotiations that he would do it so quickly and so narrowly with the Danish People's Party rather than doing it thoroughly and parliamentaryally broad with the Social Democracy and the Radicals. However, immediately after the agreement was concluded, the Minister replaced the job with a director post in the Danish Occupation across the street. And in today's edition of the Stock Exchange you can see that he writes with the Minister, that is, the current one, that this is a fantastic agreement that we are discussing here today. And it is no wonder that he thinks so about his own work. But it does not look pretty for the independence of the Danish people's government. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party would have liked to have been involved in an agreement to make the Danish business promotion system more transparent for companies. But we did not want to centralise Denmark even more than the Prime Minister of Denmark has already succeeded in doing. First of all, with the structural reform back into the zeros and now by writing the regions out of the business promotion system and withdrawing business services from the municipalities. And soon we will also get a proposal from the Prime Minister to centralise the health system even more and to put an end to the five regions of the country. The Social Democratic Party cannot support the bill, but I promise that in committee we will work hard to clarify the areas of the bill which may cause major problems for Danish companies in a very short time. And here I am thinking of another public IT project, which is vaguely described in the bill and which will not even be operational when the municipal business service shuts down in less than 2 months, namely 1 January 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181532	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Petersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181536	Thank you. One might wonder why the Social Democrats are only criticizing. The social democracy is basically • it seems to agree with the analysis that there is too much overlap, the current system is too opaque, it is too tender driven, there is too little focus on the real needs of companies that are overlapped, and there are too many players moving in the same field. But to come up with solutions is very difficult. The government and the Danish People's Party have put forward solutions that have ensured that there will be a more one-tier business promotion system that does not centralise because the municipalities will play a greater role in our business promotion system in the future than they do today. I just find it hard to see how this could be centralization. For the Left, it has been crucial that proximity and local knowledge are important and therefore the role of municipalities is strengthened. But I am just wondering about the rapporteur's speech, because what was the Socialists' bid for a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181646	The Socialists' proposal for a solution, as I also began by saying, is that the analysis of the fact that we now have an incalculable business promotion system, is correct, and that is why we should also make sure that some of the same-sounding offers that are around in the business promotion system are leaked. But we were very firm, as the rapporteur may recall from the negotiations, that we actually believe that it is a great quality in Denmark that we have a regional link, in particular in keeping an overview of a labour market that is slightly larger than a municipality and the municipality border, keeping an overview of the cooperation between knowledge institutions. Take e.g. the rapporteur's own area, North Jutland, with Aalborg University, which has an exemplary good collaboration with the North Jutland business community. The fact of having that anchoring, which ensures that what is really helping to create growth and productivity in Danish business, with close cooperation between knowledge institutions and local and regional industry, could be maintained. This has been one of the main elements of the Social Democratic Party, but unfortunately we could not get that into this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181756	It did not really give an answer to what the Social Democratic Party would have lured out. It will again be an analysis, and then it sounds as if the only way to deal with business promotion is through the regions. I just think it is a bit too bad that, even if you share the analysis that there are too many overlapping bets, you do not actually have a concrete idea of how to clean it up. We have, and that is what we have agreed. It may well be that the rapporteur thinks that the chronicle in the stock exchange today is cheerful, but it is after all Danish Industry, Danish Industry and Agriculture & Food that praises the agreement we have reached. After all, it is not a praise that they stand alone because there are a lot of people in the Danish business community who warmly support the fact that we are going to have this reform done, and who are probably also annoyed that the Social Democrats were so focused on the regions instead of being focused on the needs of the business community, because we are doing this for the sake of business and not for the sake of the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181900	What is my experience from the prelude to the negotiations and from the process of negotiations is that business organisations, living in Copenhagen, can walk directly into the Minister of Business and talk to him in his office. They're very positive about this. But if we go into the country and talk to the member companies and the business organisations, that is another talk. There we have tried to listen to the companies that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, which are located in Production Denmark, and there has been not as much satisfaction as it is with the professional organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108181932	Thank you very much, sir. Thomas Jensen that he would enrich us in the debate. I'd like to welcome Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and also regret to him that I took Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen first, but as chairman I had to take the material that was available. I'm really, really glad that Mr. Knox too. Hans Kristian Skibby will enrich us with a rapporteur's speech. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby comes from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182000	Thank you. Well, I can sign off on saying that if mr. Thomas Jensen had taken care of his alarm clock, I wouldn't have been late. My delay is due solely to the fact that there were no Social Democrats present in this Chamber, and one can of course welcome that in many other respects, it might be a nice king's idea to have, but that is not yet the case. The Danish People's Party is part of the compromise on Danish business promotion. The situation did not have an easy start, one might say. After all, in June 2017, a simplification committee was set up to work with new recommendations on how to get some better, not one-tier, but at least with fewer strict business initiatives around the country. After all, there were some recommendations in a very comprehensive report from the simplification committee. The birth was at least very hard, because many immediately looked at page 39 of the report, where it was written or still said that it means that the business services which are currently provided and financed in the municipalities will be carried out in the business houses in the future. It should be established by law in order to avoid overlapping bodies and to ensure clarity for businesses. The mere fact of saying that it was by law to deprive the municipalities of these basic initiatives in relation to local business promotion was, in fact, a declaration of war against, I think, almost all the parties of the Folketing, and one might wonder why a simplification committee could possibly make such a tough recommendation. At least that was the way the negotiations started, and we gradually got a little quiet again after all. What we can now look back on is that there have actually been several Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party has pointed out that there has not been a long and thorough debate on this, and I have to say that I can reject it blankly. There has indeed been a long and laborious debate both in one situation and in another. These are also some debates in which both the Radical Left and the Social Democrats participated far, far along the way, until one obviously had to come to a dividing line and had to accept that there were parties that did not want to take these tasks out of the equation in relation to the region's part of the business promotion effort. In the Danish People's Party, it was a basic prerequisite that we had a system where we walked away from having so many different players to handle business promotion. For many years we have been provoked by the fact that the business promotion effort was parked both with municipalities, the state and the regions, and that one could see that it did not really work. In fact, I think that Dansk Metal was looking for a study of how many different initiatives there were, compared to where advice, sparring, financial support, financing opportunities, etc. were available, and 260 different initiatives were rounded up here in the Kingdom of Denmark. It is not something to offer Danish entrepreneurs and SME industry/business people when they now want to get some basic sparring in relation to the company they are dealing with. There are simply too many doors to too few products, and that is why we have now ensured with the business promotion agreement that there will be fewer entrances to the services which the municipalities and the state will have to offer in relation to business promotion. In the Danish People's Party, we are at least pleased that we have a clear division of labour and that we are ensuring that there are not so many overlapping bodies that have to work against each other in relation to what is, after all, the whole purpose of business promotion, namely that the funds available are used as far as possible for business promotion. They are not to be used for two hundred and seventy-seven or two hundred and sixty-six actors who have to rush into demands for auditor's declarations and legal consultants and all sorts of others who would very much like to pay well to advise the Danish companies and entrepreneurs. These are some of the things that we believe we are getting into this agreement, where we can now look forward to better quality and accessibility in our business service. We ensure that there will be more municipal anchoring in the business promotion effort, and we also ensure that there are not so many cluster interventions where different places in Denmark have been sitting with the same tasks, the same challenges, and then we have tried to solve them separately rather than think together. It requires nothing more than large piles of papers and bad results. That is why it is good that we now have a simplification of state business promotion. This is one of the things I think is worth pointing out, and it is also important, of course, that we ensure that the foundation on which it was built is that we have the Business Promotion Board, which will then become the place where, compared to today, we can have our initiatives and proposals tested, in relation to whether there are some that can obtain support of any kind in relation to those places where we can at least get state support. This is something that will take place in many different places in Denmark. We get the Danish Business Promotion Board to be in Silkeborg, and then we have six business houses and six branches of business houses, and this means that 12 of the Danish municipalities are covered in relation to the geographical distribution of these jobs, as it is of course also, which are locally anchored around Denmark. So, on the whole, we are very pleased with the agreement that we have reached and we have a few additional detailed questions that I shall have to put in connection with the work of the committee. It is something about the Minister's authority in relation to the tourism part. This is something that we have talked about and we will clarify the issues that might arise. However, it is not a question that means that we cannot start botanising in the overall agreement. So the Danish People's Party supports the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182651	You're welcome. There are requests for short remarks, and the first is from Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182657	There are many of us in Central and West Jutland who find it difficult to understand that the Danish People's Party has apparently had as a very important feature that there should not be an independent business house in Central and West Jutland. You have been called the East Danish People's Party by a Conservative Deputy Mayor in Central and West Jutland. Maybe it's a good time. All municipalities in Central Jutland Region, including the municipality where Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is elected to the city council, decided that there should be two business houses. Independent strategies had to be developed for the two areas, East Jutland and Central and West Jutland, because there is a difference between the business community in the two areas. But it is evidently the Danish People's Party that has prevented it. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182757	I could not help noticing the frustration that has been experienced, including in radical circles. There is no such thing as saying that you do not wish it well for Herning. There is no such thing as saying that you do not want there to be industrial development in Central and West Jutland. And that's what this job really is. It is true that there are two mayors who have signed a request after the end of the consultation period about a sharing of the purely physical part of the business promotion system, where you then want to upgrade in Herning. There may be respect for that, but I also think that when you have an agreement, you should stand by it. And I also think it is important to point out that if you had made a business house in Herning, you would have been able to get 5.8 per cent. of the financial framework, which amounts to about 9.5 million. kr. And it is not possible to operate a fully integrated business house for the benefit and benefit of all entrepreneurs and local businesses in Central and West Jutland. We already have 14 employees in the Herning office. With this agreement they will be more, but if you are going to add the rent, IT, administration, secretarial assistance, new director, new executive secretary and, by the way, a professional board, I have to say to the Radicals that, unfortunately, all the money is gone. That is why we have stood by an agreement that ensures that the money goes to business development, to the benefit of businesses and not to the benefit of politicians. And that is something we are willing to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108182940	But that's not the way it is. This is a little strange, because the business community wants it, and it is because it means a great deal, even if a locally anchored strategy is being drawn up for a business community in Central and West Jutland, which is different from what is in East Jutland. So the business community wants it. And you are going to have to rent premises in Herning anyway, and I also note that there are a large number of politicians who have offered to sit on that board free of charge, if that is the case with the money, as Mr. His Kristian Skibby is so afraid. Then you can just note that there has been a branch in Horsens, so there you would like to see from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and the Danish People's Party side spend money. So why not listen to the business community and the municipalities instead of claiming that what they want is not good for them? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183034	I just have to say to the Radicals that they run half a wind. It's just a statement because you haven't been in the negotiations. The mayors of the 19 municipalities concerned, to which the questioner refers, have given a hearing on 13 August. All 19 mayors express full confidence, one hundred percent trust in the agreement reached, and recommend it for adoption here in the Folketing. After all, the Radical Left has chosen not to participate in the negotiations, and it is the case that when you are not in the negotiations, you are also cutting yourself off from influence. The Radicals want to help spend the money, the 150 million. kr., which is being saved on this agreement, and you have wanted to be involved in negotiating, but you do not want to be involved in assuming responsibility. And that's where I think it's gonna hit, sir. Andreas Steenberg a little bit with a boomerang... I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183127	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183131	I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party does not have an eye for the centralisation which, in our opinion, is at least the result of these legislative proposals, of course, first and foremost the main legislative proposal. When you look at the role of a future Danish Business Promotion Board, you have to say that they will have a very, very important role. It is, after all, those who have the right of initiative, also in relation to local action. They are the ones who have to draw up a development strategy for decentralized action, they also have to draw up local programmes, as well as national programmes, and they have to allocate funds to local tourism projects. It is at least in our opinion • and I am surprised that the Danish People's Party does not have an eye for it • a strong centralisation when, at the same time, the entire regional leg is pulled out of the business promotion system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183241	It's something I don't share with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's perception of. This agreement actually gives us a much more decentralized model in terms of how these funds are given priority. As far as the Business Promotion Board is concerned, it is true that there will be some key tasks where, as is currently the case in relation to growth forums under the regions, they will have to assess applications that come in, whether funds and support for the initiatives they would like to see through. But you have to have a place to have these things examined and validated whether they are eligible or not, and for good reasons the municipalities cannot sit with that themselves. There we have to have some to sit somewhere else, some who are not the municipalities themselves and who have to decide whether to give or not to give funds, whether to support or not to support the wishes of the different companies. That is why we have to have a business promotion board with it, and I think that is a very, very good way to do it. And then we decentralize further, by the way, in that the other things that have previously been and are now in the greenhouses are now located locally in these 12 different places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183358	But all other things being equal, it is true that the distance to the municipal link, if I may say so, is, after all, greater than the distance to the regional growth forums, since it is now a very narrow Danish business promotion board of 17 members, who are also responsible for local efforts. What surprises me is that the Danish People's Party does not, as it were, see that the Business Promotion Board also has a very high degree of right of initiative towards the local, the municipal part of this. That's what I like to anchor about. Since you are now a party that beats its chest when it comes to the Disgusting Denmark, it may well surprise me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183446	There's a lot that can be puzzled people, I've been able to understand. In fact, if you look at the composition of the Business Promotion Board, it is taken care of that both the regions, the municipalities, the employers' organisations and the trade unions, and there is also room for people from the group that is the very best to get in, namely people who know something about doing business in Denmark. So says Mr. Henning Hyllested states that there are only 17 members. Well, had Enhedslisten imagined that it would be such a Politburo of 100 people who would sit and manage these applications? I see a horror scenario in my eyes, I must say. I therefore think that 17 people who embrace as widely as they do can certainly be pleased with, including as a member of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183536	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183540	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur what is to happen when this centralisation exercise starts on 1 January, by shutting down municipal business services and moving to these regional business houses. Where should companies go? For what has to replace the local business service is this new IT system that needs to be developed. However, the draft law states that it will not open until mid- 2019. That is to say, after you have shut down something, what is to replace it does not start until six months later. Where will companies go in six months?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183619	There are different mottoes in Denmark, and one of them is that beginning can be difficult. So it's just that you can't just transform these things so that on January 1st, period, everything is in place. Of course, there will be a number of different things that, for a time, will challenge not least the many employees and the many companies who want help and guidance from the new business houses and the new branches of business houses. I am sure that it is in good hands with the municipalities that have to handle the task, and also with the employees who are there. Then it is true that there is a challenge in the field of IT, in that you want this digital solution, which of course takes longer to get in place. And, of course, in the intervening period, you will be able to obtain your information, as you will get it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183708	Now we have a bit of a slave's tradition in Denmark with public IT projects, namely that they often fail a little, and that all beginnings are difficult for them, so I just have a brief and clear question for Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. That's, uh... Hans Kristian Skibby says this IT project is just gonna run on track, and it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby sure that after a few years we have a fully developed system that just benefits all companies in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183738	Well, now I know that Mr. Knox... Thomas Jensen thinks very highly of Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, but that is to say, that fortunes about the future sometimes have to be taken care of. I think I should also pass that advice on to Mr. Thomas Jensen himself. I believe that people will take on the task and that you will solve it as well as you can. IT projects yes, we can find many IT projects and government procurements that have been anchored in the Social Democratic Party, such as the purchase of new trains. After all, it has not been a success, and it was under Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, you did it. And you can find other examples, Amanda and other computer programs. We also have a new one on the list at the moment in relation to health with the portal where people get the wrong medicine and so on. So, of course, I cannot give any guarantees that things are working with ticks and snakes and all sorts of other things from day one, but that is the way things must now go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183829	Thank you very much, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for today's efforts. We'll move on to the next one, sir. Henning Hylllested. Unfortunately, it is not the case that Torsten Schack Pedersen gets a prize for being present. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108183847	I think we've heard enough about all that late here. Yes, this is actually a rather important legislative proposal, which deals with the regulation of our entire business promotion system, i.e. how we, on the public side, support a strong and socially beneficial business. And it is also a question of a great deal of money, when all is said and done, both money paid directly by Danish taxpayers, but also indirectly by means of funds from the EU funds, which we have seen in parentheses also paid in the first place. That is why it is also so unfortunate that the government has run one, we at least think, closed process, and that it has chosen to make a narrow agreement alone with the parliamentary basis in the form of the Danish People's Party. If anything is needed, it is stability and security in this area, and that is not guaranteed by narrow agreements. That is admittedly true, but the political differences seem to have got in the way, or what to say, the level of ambition for a broad agreement has not been high enough. We would have liked to have taken part in negotiations on a new business promotion system on the part of Enhedslisten, but, as I said from my place, we were never invited to any negotiations. And perhaps we did not, because we actually take the view that when taxpayers' money is used to support private business, then society must also have something left. We simply have to reward those companies that take special responsibility for, for example. environment, for employees, for local communities. This may be because they show the way to reduce pollution, or because they take a special responsibility for hiring staff with reduced working capacity, such as: social economic enterprises do. And we must not in any way support in our optics companies that are failing their responsibilities, for example. If they do not want to enter into agreements or use tax havens, or companies that are completely unscrupulous in relation to the employees, such as us. Just saw with the slum camp in Padborg. But all of this doesn't say a word in the bill. It would otherwise have been an appropriate opportunity, we think, to have such things discussed and promoted, given that a major change in the business promotion system is still under way. Instead, it has become a legislative proposal which involves some administrative changes and structural changes, and it has, above all, affected the regions, which are largely removed from the business promotion effort and therefore have to bleed 600 million. kr. in that account. In the Enhedslisten, we have no doubt that this development is also part of the heat of some parties' desire to abolish the regions, and this is done by using the salami method. I don't know if it's the first slice, but it's certainly a slice. At the same time, the draft law here also means a massive centralisation of business promotion efforts. We fully agree with the Social Democrats in that view. And that is in spite of the fact that the opposite is claimed. It may seem strange that just exactly the Left and the Danish People's Party are behind this, when you consider how much they have beaten up in terms of Denmark in terms of balance and relocation of state jobs, and I shall come after you. They say they want to create a strong local anchoring of the effort, but it is difficult to see how it is compatible with the centralisation we see in the proposal. I think it is most evident in Sections 9 and 10, where it is stated that the Danish Business Promotion Board is responsible for initiating and financing the business promotion efforts, including the development of a strategy also for decentralised efforts, the development of local and national programmes, the allocation of funds for local and cross-cutting tourism projects within the framework of a national strategy for Danish tourism. It has obviously also been difficult for some of the consultation parties who have submitted a hearing to see the strong local anchoring that is being talked about. At any rate, I have noticed that the Business Region Esbjerg writes: "This intention is therefore not recognised in the draft law, where the text is clearly marked by the fact that the municipal influence will not be very great and that the decentralized municipal degrees of freedom are centrally controlled by the Danish Business Promotion Board and the Minister for Business Affairs. They're right about that. And the removal of 600 million has a number of negative consequences. kr. From the resources of the regions to regional development. For example: we have seen how the local and absolutely necessary bus operation in Region Sjælland and Region Midtjylland is now being affected. We also fully agree with the consultation responses which indicate that the trade union movement has been pushed too much out of a number of the new bodies. This is very worrying because union representation could help to ensure that employees' rights are taken into account when granting aid of one kind or another to companies. And it's telling this government that it always has room for representatives from the business top... they are well represented in the new bodies in our opinion... but that the other side, i.e. the large majority, which actually creates the values of our work, does not seem to have much to say. Against this background, Enhedslisten cannot support these legislative proposals, and we will instead work to ensure that a new majority can set up a business promotion system that supports social and environmental sustainability to a much greater extent. I would just like to point out that there is a consultation response from the Association of Danish Small Islands, where they point out the need for a central entry into a business promotion effort to support small islands, among other things. with funds from the various funds. There is no doubt that there is a special situation in the small islands. These are very small enterprises which need direct support, even financially, for individual businesses. I can only call for this proposal from the small islands to be listened to, also because Article 14 of L 67 states that local authorities must not provide direct financial support to individual enterprises in their business promotion activities. The other two legislative proposals in this package on tourism and on the European Social Fund and Regional Fund are the result of changes in the business promotion system. The question of tourism plays a very important role where I come from. For example, some from over there at least believe that Wonderful Copenhagen, which is the tourism promotion organisation of the capital, is given extraordinary consideration and has a very great influence on coastal and natural tourism, both with the changes we are making here, but also with the financial bill. This may seem a little strange, because you do not think it is Wonderful Copenhagen who has a great deal of knowledge about coastal and natural tourism. And one might also wonder, bearing in mind that the number of nights spent on the west coast of Jutland far exceeds the number of nights spent in Copenhagen. The legislative proposals talk a lot about avoiding duplication, and this is, of course, one of the very great reasons for changing the business promotion system, including tourism. However, one might well well ask whether there is no overlap between the National Tourism Forum and the Danish Business Promotion Board, according to the comments on page 4 of L 67, that is to say on tourism. I am simply quoting from it, because I think it stands and blinks: 'At the same time, there must also be a link to decentralized business promotion in the field of tourism. This follows from the fact that the Danish Business Promotion Board, set up under the Business Promotion Act, is entrusted with the task of initiating and financing decentralised business promotion initiatives, including funds earmarked for local and cross-cutting tourism projects within the framework of the national strategy for Danish tourism, which the National Tourism Forum is responsible for preparing. I think it is very clear that there is simply a conflict of interest going on here, and I cannot understand why this was not taken into account when the two legislative proposals were drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108184729	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then we'll take sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108184738	Thank you very much. I am not going to make the big approach to the proposal. I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was very good at describing precisely what these proposals are about and also pointing to the major weaknesses. And it is really a pity when you were faced with an issue that everyone agreed should be dealt with, precisely how you could simplify a system, that you have chosen to make a solution in a very, very narrow and small circle, which unfortunately creates centralisation instead of also decentralizing. It's really weird when you look at what the government and the Danish People's Party do otherwise with the relocation of state jobs, which should make sense in terms of balance in the country, that you make a business support scheme that looks like this. All in all, we just have to say that, for us, unfortunately, this is something that needs to be changed when, hopefully, there will be another majority, and that is a pity, because it is precisely business promotion that should be something that thought long-term and created stability for business rather than something that needs to be changed. So I think it's a shame that the government chose to make as narrow a deal as it has done. As Mr. Henning Hyllested, I would also like to point out the consultation answer that has come from the Association of Danish Small Islands, because I think that this is a very important problem they raise. I am not really concerned about whether large companies can get any help and support in these systems, but I am very concerned about the very small companies that are out there, who are helping to create jobs throughout the country and helping to create life throughout the country. I am concerned that the small entrepreneurs and so on. When you centralize the system like you do, you're forgotten. So I hope, at least, that we can get some proper answers to the hearing that has come from the Association of Danish Small Islands, because I think that this is a problem that is not being properly answered in this proposal, so I will look forward to addressing that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108184940	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108184949	Thank you. The three legislative proposals that are being examined are aimed at implementing agreements on the simplification of the business promotion system. It is quite clear that there was a need for clean-up work in this area. You saw a long line of competing offers. For example: A number of publicly funded business clusters were seen covering the same area. Having many different offers to solve the same problem is not economical, since too much money is spent on double management. It is also bad for companies that see offers as confusing and incalculable. With the proposals, we are completely removing business promotion from the regional level. Instead, intercommunal business houses are created to provide specialist business advice. Local authorities can continue to promote business, it should not be an overlap of what is offered in business houses, nor should it distort competition. It also streamlines the state offerings of the Growth Fund and Innovation Fund so that it will be as easy to go to as possible. The Liberal Alliance wants to spend less money on public administration and more money on activities in demand by companies, and we therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185117	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185127	We are discussing a lot in Denmark in these years, that there are politicians and that citizens, especially in the sparsely populated areas, do not think they are being heard. In the Radical Left, we believe that one of the causes of the challenges is the municipal reform that was carried out 10-15 years ago, which moved power, influence, further away from the citizens, moved very much into the state, closed city councils, closed counties, removed a great many politicians that the citizens could vote for or not vote for, and which the citizens could go to and create a debate. With these bills, the government and the Danish People's Party choose to remove another task from the regional level, namely business promotion, and move a lot of the influence and virtually everything into some state boards where there will be no elected representatives. That is to say, if you, as a citizen or as a company, want to try to figure out how to share some of this money, how to get into some of these schemes, then it's going to be hard to figure out how the decisions are made because it's now being put into a state board. We think this is a bad idea and that is also why we in the Radical Left left the negotiations. Because we didn't think this should be removed from the regions. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby criticised the Radical Left for not wanting to take responsibility for making a new arrangement, and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentioned the same thing in the debate with the Social Democrat rapporteur. We really would have liked to have helped both save some money and simplify this system, but the message from the government when we negotiated was that we should be involved in removing the regions. It should have been given in advance. So there were no other models that could be negotiated with the government at that time, at least, and that is why we left the negotiations. Here we are in the Radical Left in line with a great many companies, with a great many knowledge environments, which would like to go out to the companies. That's what this is all about. We also find it strange that we are now choosing to make a legislative proposal here quite late in the year, and in fact this whole new structure should apply from 1 January. There are a lot of people who have meant a lot to growth, for the development of this society, which now does not know where they are going to be on 1 January. So we also think that implementation is going very, very fast, in terms of what we think is sensible. The last thing I want to mention here, and as I have also mentioned in a number of questions, is that we are incomprehensible about the fact that we have not listened to a large number of municipalities in the Central Jutland Region and have chosen to create an independent business house in Herning in Central and West Jutland, and that is why I can say here that we choose to table an amendment to the draft law, so that that that part will at least be dealt with directly here in the Folketing. I can, of course, hear the debate today that it will probably not be adopted, and we are reasonably incomprehensible that the wishes of the municipalities have not been met. With those words, I can say that we do not support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185459	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185504	Thank you, sir. President. I have a question. Now, sir. In his rapporteur's speech, Andreas Steenberg also said that his party was certainly involved in these negotiations until a certain point, and that one would then have to leave the room because one could not support the fact that these tasks would be taken from the regions, and the rapporteur has also said that Herning is a place which has been mentioned, I think it is quoted in up to several newspapers. The Danish People's Party has then been criticized for having had some kind of vendetta against Herning, from where Mr. Andreas Steenberg would like to have votes. Then I would just like the rapporteur to confirm whether the following cities have not also been mentioned in the negotiations which Mr. Andreas Steenberg has been in, and I mention: Thisted, Vejle, Kolding, Holstebro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185603	Not in the negotiations I was in. We never had time to discuss this, and now I have some doubts as to how to address it, but Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who is no longer a member of the Folketing but who was a minister at the time, said that it was certainly up to a discussion. But we were never able to discuss it because we did not agree with the premise that the government laid down, namely that we should be involved in peeling the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185629	Now, in my rapporteur's speech before, I mentioned that I think that Mr. Andreas Steenberg ran a little with half a wind, because if the rapporteur cannot guarantee that these city names, these local names, were mentioned, how can the rapporteur be sure that Herning was not mentioned, also at the subsequent negotiating meetings? The rapporteur has been quoted as saying in a number of newspapers that Herning had been tampered with. The rapporteur is sure of that, but the rapporteur cannot make the rest of us wise whether these other cities, Thisted, Vejle, Kolding and Holstebro, were mentioned in the negotiations in question. Of course, I was very puzzled about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185713	In the same speech with the minister then about whether there could be such a business house in Central and West Jutland, and it may of course also be anywhere other than Herning, it was clearly my impression that the government was ready to do so, and I have also been confirmed today when I asked Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen on that very question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185735	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108185754	I would like to start by congratulating my old university, Aalborg University, on being the fourth best in engineering. It's pretty big and the best in Europe. Aalborg University is one of the universities that has been excellent at opening up to the outside world, working with industry, organisations and other educational institutions. I have worked with business promotion and entrepreneurial promotion at Aalborg University before being elected to the Danish Parliament. Unfortunately, the government's proposals for business promotion are a blow to the face of the kind of cooperation that we have had in North Jutland, for example. It is precisely our knowledge institutions that are essential to ensure positive business development. This is also why Danish universities, TEKNAT Dekankollegiet, DTU, Danish vocational colleges, Danish vocational schools and the upper secondary schools express concern that the reform implies a weakening of their influence on the decentralized business promotion effort. The regional is written out, centralisation has increased significantly, and the many voices who have warned against the government's proposals have been overheard. Well, that was sir. Brian Mikkelsen, who screwed up the proposal, but he has since changed his job. SF supported the simplification of the business promotion system. Because there was good reason for that. A great deal of money was also spent on the system. So there was every reason to clean it up. But that should not be the model we are seeing today, and not this kind of centralisation. Unfortunately, we were not given the opportunity to influence either the negotiations or the bill, as we were never invited to negotiations. Centralisation is also the reason why, for example, the Danish National Association on Vippen finds that a proposal for a law on business promotion does not benefit companies but, on the contrary, will have negative consequences for companies' development opportunities. This is particularly true in rural areas and far from Copenhagen, because there we depend not only on the municipalities, but also on the regions across the board having this cooperation. You have an influence and you know what needs to be supported, and not least educational institutions of all kinds have a much greater voice than they have in this proposal. Because it is precisely when you tie the students, research and knowledge together with perhaps small companies that need to grow or get new ideas that magic almost occurs. At least some really amazing things can happen. This is also why Aalborg University is repeatedly recognised to be enough the university in the country which is best at working with the surrounding society, not least the business community. I think this bill is so weakening. That's too bad. In fact, we in the SF would very much like to vote in favour of a proposal on the business promotion system. We think it is very important that, especially when we spend so much money on it, we also support it in the right direction. I can only agree with what Mr. Henning Hyllested also said that, of course, our values must also reflect what it is that we spend so much money promoting whether it is to get marginalised into a labour market, to promote socio-economic enterprises, the green transition, the small businesses that I know are close to the heart of the Minister of Industry. So, of course, our values must also reflect what we spend billions of dollars on. That is why we would have liked to have supported it, but we cannot, as it is here, and that is a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190150	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190200	Thank you. The three legislative proposals we are discussing here are, after all, the implementation of the agreement we made on simplifying the business promotion system back in May of this year. The reason why we have wanted to reform the business promotion effort is basically that the effort is not effective enough. There are too many overlaps, and there are too many actors that businesses have to deal with and that taxpayers have to finance in the end. After all, the proposed changes and the whole course of negotiations, which have also been discussed a few times in the course of the proceedings here, were as a consequence of the report by the simplification committee. The simplification committee had to focus on the needs of companies, because it is important for companies that we have a well-functioning business promotion system with services which actually meet their needs and which are simple to access. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Business promotion efforts need to be more digitised. This is what companies are looking for. It creates a more effective effort, but in fact also a more accessible effort, for companies will have better opportunities to seek help and guidance if they can do so digitally and of a high quality. The new digital business promotion platform gives companies 24-7 access to information and guidance. Increased digitisation of efforts is the future, and it has also been an important priority for the Conservative People's Party to exploit the technological solutions in order to optimise our efforts. In order to avoid too many overlapping efforts and to spend too much money on administration, and in order to better spend money on businesses, one business promotion board will be set up to replace the current six growth forums. This will then be the task of the Danish Business Promotion Board. to develop strategies for decentralised action and strategies for implementing such things as EU Structural Funds funds. It is also important for us that efforts remain locally anchored, but that the administrative layers are reduced, so that it is not both municipalities, regions and states that are responsible for the work, but so that in future it is only municipalities and states. There have been too many overlaps and too unclear division of labour, and this has created confusion about the efforts of the customers, who are the companies and entrepreneurs. It's all about them. The agreement places six business houses around Denmark and six branches. It will be professionally strong business houses where companies can get qualified help when they need it. Separate boards will be appointed for each business house with a broad representation of business people and politically appointed members via KKR, and thus the municipalities will also receive a strong representation there. Finally, tourism is simplified. Where today there are approx. 80 different players, there will in future only be between 15 and 25 destination companies. Or as one of the players in the tourism industry said to me the other day, he simply found it embarrassing to get around tourism fairs around the world, where all other countries had perhaps one stand, but where Denmark had six or seven different destination companies with each their stand, which almost competed with each other. So there's room for improvement. There is room for stronger and more effective action where we do not compete between regions, but where we work together to strengthen tourism and business in Denmark. With those comments, of course, I can tell you that we support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190554	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190558	I'd like to hear Mr. Anders Johansson and the Conservative People's Party, whether there are such incentives in these legislative proposals that we are now abolishing those regions. This is, after all, an important part of the regions; in other words, apart from the whole health service, of course, this is one of the important things which the regions have taken care of and devoted a great deal of effort to and spent a great deal of money on. And that is why I am surprised that this leg is being pulled out of the whole business promotion effort. One can only get the suspicion, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that this is such a part of trying ultimately to eliminate the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190650	Well, we wanted this to be a system that went from a three-string system to a two-string system where the regions were no longer involved. Nor is it a secret that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of abolishing the regions. So we think it is very good that we are now getting rid of this task from the regions. It is, in fact, a step towards the objective that we have. Because we have seen from the outset that the regions are not necessary in Denmark. But we should also just bear in mind that this is then an overall objective that we in Conservatives have. But only the administrative relief it will be to write the regions out of the equation is that which allows us to actually free up resources for, among other things. Citizen-friendly service in the municipalities. This must also be borne in mind, and, moreover, we will also have resources released to strengthen our business promotion efforts in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190736	Well, I'm glad. That was a fairly clear answer. This is part of the effort to put the regions out of business, not only for that reason, I acknowledge. Then you know it, and then you know it around the regions. It is absolutely true that it has not been a secret that the Conservative People's Party has that attitude, but I just think that this still seems like such a sneak attack. You use the salami method, like I said. Then we take an area that they are dealing with, and then we remove it, and that's how we can do it along the way. Finally, we take health care. Is it an end in itself to minimise the number of organisations working on tourism? It is clear that there may be too many, but is it an end in itself to minimize them? The rapporteur said that it was embarrassing sometimes, or that he had heard that it was embarrassing that there were so many. However, it is not just an expression of the tourism effort, for example. Need to be incredibly differentiated? And there are really many, many different options and ways to approach it, depending on where in the country you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190839	I mean, I believe it is important that we have an effective tourism effort. And at the moment there are too many overlaps where you actually almost get the impression that you fight against each other internally in Denmark. But in the first place it's all about marketing Denmark externally, so we get tourists to Denmark. That is what strengthens tourism. Then the rapporteur makes it sound like this is now a sneak attack on the regions. No, this is primarily about creating a better framework for our business promotion efforts, and the ultimate customers in our business promotion efforts are the companies, and the companies support this. So for us it has not been a problem to write the regions out of this equation, because we have no desire to hold hands under the regions. But first of all, of course, this is about strengthening the business promotion effort and having the most effective action towards our business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190930	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Anders Johansson. And then we've come to the Minister of Business, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108190944	Thank you very much. I've been looking forward to today. I have looked forward very much to keeping this reform, which I did not come up with, but which I inherited as a new minister. It was agreed between the government and the Danish People's Party in May, and I think it is a very good reform. I would like to help make the kind of reforms that we are doing today, which will enable us to have a simpler system for the benefit of our business community, which will be much easier to understand in the future, and where we can concentrate our efforts on helping business rather than spending too much money on having too many actors who both create confusion and a great deal of administrative work. The legislative package consists of three legislative proposals in total: law on business promotion, law amending the law on Danish tourism and the law amending the law on the administration of the European Regional Fund and the European Social Fund. It is a quite large curriculum and it is a quite comprehensive reform. The proposals give effect to the agreement made by the government in May, as I said, which was called the simplification of the business promotion system. We create a better, simpler business promotion system with a focus on quality and accessibility for entrepreneurs and businesses, and there is broad support from business organisations. The business promotion system must be organised so that less money is spent on public administration and more money goes to business-oriented activities in demand by companies. What is at the heart of the reform is that we cut the regions off from business promotion and tourism promotion, thereby reducing administrative levels from three to two. This, however, means that municipalities will have a greater role in the business promotion system than they do today. Local authorities must continue to be the local focal point for companies so that they can develop a strong local business promotion effort together with companies. And then we establish a digital platform that gives all companies access to the business promotion system 24 hours a day and creates greater accessibility to guides. We establish what will be called the Danish Business Promotion Board, which will take over the tasks of Regional Growth Forums and the Danish Growth Council, both of which will be settled. The board will have strong representation of the business community and municipalities and will ensure a more coherent, decentralised business promotion effort with fewer overlaps than we have today and with greater impact on companies. The Board of Directors is to draw up an overall strategy for the business promotion efforts in Denmark, and within the strategy, the Board of Directors is to implement business promotion funds, including Structural Funds funds from the EU. The business promotion strategy will have a strong local foundation, and it will contain regional chapters focusing on the needs of businesses locally. Today we have approx. 60 clusters and innovation networks, and we will reduce this to 10-12, and they must be designated, identified by the Business Promotion Board, and this will be achieved within a few years. In recent years, municipalities have taken greater and greater responsibility for developing their business environment, and this is a good thing, and therefore the municipalities must also have a major role in the business promotion system in the future. Local industrial development is a municipal matter and local authorities must continue to drive local development. The municipalities will continue to have the opportunity to create business councils and business centres to provide local business services, including one-to-one guidance, as long as it does not overlap efforts in business houses. We believe that the digital business promotion platform will also support municipal efforts. Intercommunal business houses are set up to provide the specialized business services. Business houses must be strong centres of competence with specialised professional skills in business operations and development that are available to all companies across the country. Highly specialised state schemes will be available through business houses. Contrary to the current glasshouses, which serve only growth companies, the new business houses must serve all companies in need of specialised guidance. With their knowledge of local and regional challenges and potentials, the boards of the business houses are given an important role in contributing to the formulation of the regional chapters of the overall strategy for business promotion in Denmark. In the State field, an entry point for grants for innovation and a second entry point for the provision of capital is established. There was a witty head over there in the Ministry of Business and Industry who had a lot of fun about this, because we were really good at making a lot of different entrances, and you might think that's a little funny, but this is an entrance for grants for innovation and an entrance for the provision of capital. By pooling state support for knowledge-based entrepreneurs in the Innovation Fund and the Growth Fund, a simpler and stronger system is created for future knowledge-based entrepreneurs. In view of the agreement, where the regions' tasks in the field of tourism also lapse, a number of amendments are also made to the Act on Danish Tourism. We are changing, among other things. the composition of the National Tourism Forum, where the profession and the municipal level will be given increased representation, as well as the presidents of Danish Coastal and Natural Tourism and Wonderful Copenhagen will be made members. The regional tourism development companies set up under the Act will continue under the new term Tourism Development Companies and be funded under the Finance Act. This part of the reform will also contribute to a simpler system based on the needs of companies and on the quality of their efforts. I would like to address some of the comments that have just been made by some of the rapporteurs. First of all, thank you for the many speeches. I do not have so much to criticize the governing parties and the wise statements with praise for the reform, for which I very much agree, so that I can agree with everything. I should like to point out in particular that I thought there was an interesting speech by Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Petersen, who told me how long he's been working on this. I am really glad that some of you have done so and have taken hold of the rough file here and have had this very incalculable business promotion system reduced so far. To the Danish People's Party, of course, I would like to thank you very much for putting the votes to make this reform, which the business community is so happy about and which is of benefit to the Danish business community. To the Socialists, first of all, I would like to say that I thought it was a golden moment in the speaking chair of Mr Seligman's speech. Thomas Jensen's side, in the beginning, and it has also happened to me that I myself have been in that situation, so no criticism of it, because it can happen quickly down here sometimes. I think that the Socialists' criticism of centralisation with the reform is wrong, because we do not see it as centralisation. When you say the word centralisation, people think that then we will bring it all together in Copenhagen and then it will go beyond the outermost regions, but I do not think there is any of that in this reform. The secretariat of the Business Promotion Board will be in Silkeborg, so you might be worried about getting too far away in Copenhagen. But we can reassure that the board meetings will be held around the country to ensure that you get around well. I think with the municipalities' role in relation to business houses, which will probably be the most important element in the whole system, that development is driven on local hands with a great local knowledge and that we are actually empowering the municipalities. When you divide up the tasks of the regions, there are some tasks that go to the municipalities, while some other tasks go to the state, but I do not think it can be said overall that this reform is centralisation. There are several of the rapporteurs, among others. The Enhedslisten, who criticised the fact that this was a narrow settlement. I cannot be very clever about the negotiations that were then, because I was not in them myself, but at least I know that the Socialists and the Radicals have been on a good road in the negotiations, and that is always a pity when it does not succeed in reaching agreement, but that is how it was. I also agree with Mr. Torsten Schack Petersen in that, in the end, there may be some situations where you have to settle narrowly, even if you have intentions of something else at first. The alternative said that it is believed that the small islands had a point in making use of the opportunities to grant subsidies directly to companies around Denmark's small islands, and this is also, as far as I am aware, the possibility for the Business Promotion Board to take advantage of, in that they now have the EU funds that must be used in this way. I cannot say anything about the extent to which this will be the case. The Radicals said that, as I heard, they were in principle opposed to removing the regions from the business promotion system, and it has to be said that this is quite a fundamental disagreement, which will probably be difficult to eliminate, and that can indicate why we failed to reach a wider agreement. The Radicals also said that they thought there was too rapid implementation. I do not agree with that, because I do not believe that Mr. Torsten Schack Petersen's report on how long we have actually been working on this and that it has actually been in the government base right from the start of the parliamentary term, it can be said that it has gone unnecessarily quickly. We would like to implement the new structure as quickly as possible now that the agreement has been made, and I can say that we are working on this at high pressure, and we expect business houses to be up and running here from the turn of the year and that the Business Promotion Board will be fully operational. SF praised Aalborg University, and I very much agree with that. It's a good university that's good at having contact with the outside world. We still believe that there is good representation from knowledge institutions in the business promotion system, and I think that good things are going on in many places. I was out at DTU because I think it was two weeks ago when we also saw that there is a very close link between business and that university. SF would have liked to have voted in favour of the reform, which the SF recognises contains many good elements, and I can, of course, continue to recommend it. All in all, I would like to say that this is my first major structural reform, where we are making extensive reorganisations. I think we should do this carefully and carefully, also in the light of some other discussions that we have at the moment, where we need to be very careful, we do not reorganise just to do so and to show decisiveness, but this is certainly not the case here, where there has been a very thorough process over several years, when everything has been analysed very thoroughly, and I think it is a good reform that ensures a much simpler business promotion system. I think it is well thought through, well thought through by the parties and the rapporteurs who made the agreement here in May, and I look forward very much to working on it and hope that we will have a business promotion system that is for the benefit of companies and not for the sake of business promotion organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192211	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192217	Thank you to the Minister for Business. I am surprised that the Minister for Industry is saying that this is not about centralisation at all. Let us repeat: 98 municipalities must now have their business services transferred to far fewer business houses, the regions are abolished, and the structural fund treatment that has been there in the past and the network that has been in the regions disappears, but structural fund processing is moving into the state. Tourism is also drawn into a central council, and everything points to centralisation. And the fact that some of the administration, fortunately, is going to be in Silkeborg I must hurry to say as elected in Silkeborg is still a centralisation. After all, you lose the whole network idea that has been in the regional effort... that knowledge institutions know the regional business community, can make partnership agreements and make things that create jobs, not just in Copenhagen, but around the country. I miss in this talk about business promotion that we're talking about a better balance for Denmark, because we're just gonna lose something around the country with this reform. So can the Minister himself not hear that it is such a newspeak when they say that this is not centralisation? You simply collect things at fewer addresses, fewer places, and you lose really, very much network. And my prognosis is that there are actually many things that will be lost on the floor with this reform. A brief question: where should companies go when centralized on 1 January and they want some service? The municipal and regional shut down and it must be replaced by an IT system, which only starts up in mid- 2019. Where should companies go in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192413	No, I certainly cannot agree with the idea of centralisation. I think that if you are sitting in a branch of a business house on Bornholm or in a business house in Haderslev or in a branch of a business house in Nykøbing Mors or in Vordingborg, you will wonder why someone would think that this is a violent centralisation. We believe that with the structure we have created here with the business houses, where the municipalities are governing, we have ensured that there is local knowledge around. I also believe that there is a balance in relation to the fact that, of course, there must also be some competences, and there is also a limit to where local things should be if there is also to be business promotion at a high level. It is not the case that the business promotion platform replaces the municipal service. Local services will continue to be available, and the business promotion platform is complementary to the setup we have in the business promotion system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192523	So on 1 January, when this law comes into force, there will still be business services to help companies around the individual municipalities, and then it is only mid- 2019, as the bill says, that this IT system is fully developed. What else can we expect from this IT system? When is it finished and when is it completely flying, so that you like for example. SMEs can go in and seek information on what to do in relation to e.g. implementation of new IT equipment, etc.;? When can we expect a fully developed IT system to be completed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192604	I expect, as sir. Thomas Jensen himself also said that the business promotion platform will be completed around the summer of next year. And no, I didn't say that business promotion in the municipalities just goes on and then gets phased out when the business promotion platform is complete. It is quite wrong to put it up in such a way that the business support platform is what replaces the municipal service. There is a whole new structure here, where business houses become the bearer, and if there is something that can be said to replace the municipal service, it is first and foremost the business houses. However, there is still room for local authorities to continue to do business promotion activities to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192638	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192641	In other words, centralisation does not necessarily have anything to do with whether it is in Copenhagen, as the Minister said at one time. It is a question of who has the right of initiative, what body it is. After all, the Danish Business Promotion Board is a body; it is a government body that refers to the Minister for Business and Business, and it also gets the secretariat of the Ministry of Business. So it is very much a central body, and that is what I mean by centralisation in this case. I would just like to ask you something about the small islands, because the minister addressed it a little in his speech here. I believe that the uncertainty has arisen because, as I was told in my rapporteur's speech in paragraph 14, it was to L 67, but it is to L 73 that local authorities' business promotion activities must not distort competition in relation to the private sector, including direct financial support for individual businesses. I think that is the case, because businesses in the small islands are incredibly dependent as part of a municipality that they can get support that way through. When it is all brought in, and it is the Danish Business Promotion Board that has the right of initiative and decides to grant funds, and the municipalities are limited to an entirely local municipal effort and are not allowed to provide financial support to a company on an island, then the problem arises, then the uncertainty arises at least. And I'd like to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192824	As I have just been informed and understood, it will be the case that some of the EU funds available to the Danish Business Promotion Board, which covers the whole country, will be used to support specific businesses on small islands. There is no requirement that the Danish Business Promotion Board should then choose to make use of it, but as far as I have been informed and understood, they have an opportunity to do so with some of the funds, whereas the municipalities have no possibility of doing so, as Mr. Henning Hyllested correctly refers it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192904	I'm glad. After all, I think that brings things a little bit further. We must also, and I hope that the Minister for Business and Industry will help to turn the bullshit on to the Danish Business Promotion Board and say: you must be It is, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, very, very small companies that depend on the fact that support can be given directly to the individual company. But I can hear from the Minister that that is also being opened up. I think you'll be happy to hear that on the islands. Then it is just how in practice it unfolds, how in practice it seeks and all the things that the small islands have also pointed out in their consultation responses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108192945	Yes, I am not going to dictate to the Danish Business Promotion Board that they should use the funds for concrete direct support to certain companies in the small islands, but I can say, as I said before, that, as I said, I have understood in this way that it is possible for the Danish Business Promotion Board to do with some of the EU funds that they receive. In addition, it is also worth noting that there is a seizure of how the funds are being used. There is a part of the budget that must be used regionally, so that we continue to ensure that we have a Denmark in balance that we would like to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108193023	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case, and the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181108193043	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 9 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
