ParlaMint-DK_20181129100036	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100044	During the last few days, the Parliament has been visited by the President of the Parliament from Hungary. László Kövér and a delegation. I welcome the delegation and hope that they will have a fruitful visit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100112	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted: Report on the provision of material to the Commission of Inquiry into the SKAT and on the information provided by the Minister of Taxation to the Danish Parliament. 4. The account will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100129	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 17 by Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Erik Christensen (S), Henrik Dahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Merete Scheelsbeck (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 73 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 5 (ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 17 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 16 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 18 of Eva Flyvholm (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100336	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100351	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100423	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100438	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100537	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100607	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100628	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100638	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100647	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 60 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 48 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100717	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100732	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100800	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100819	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100848	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100902	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100936	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129100955	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 50 (S, EL, ALT and Andreas Steenberg (RV)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101027	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101047	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister for Culture as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101057	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101105	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101134	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101151	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I'll have row down there in the back rows. The vote is over. In favour 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101244	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101300	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (DF, S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101326	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101348	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 109 (DF, S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101434	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 6 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101524	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101553	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It's gotta be quiet while you go out! There's still no legal treatment. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101739	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101752	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (ALT and RV), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a law amending the criminal code and the law on passports for Danish nationals, etc.] PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (ALT and RV), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101839	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 4 December 2018. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129101926	I can make the explanatory statement relatively brief, while the rapporteurs are preparing for the relocation of seats here. The starting point is, of course, that education has been removed as an opportunity to earn, so to speak, in relation to permanent residence. This has been discussed several times, and the group of parties responsible for the question believes that it is extremely important for people to train. It is incredibly important to be able to function in Danish society, and it is also extremely important to be able to return home and help rebuild its country if that is where it ends. That is why we are not satisfied with the fact that there are restrictions or restrictions on people's ability to receive education in relation to those who choose not to receive education. That is why we think it is reasonable at this stage to have a discussion on how the legislation, what is the evaluation and what is the perspective. And the Minister has the opportunity to present that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129102034	That's very nice. I think we are just waiting for a moment, just so we are sure that everyone is in place in the first row, that the microphones work etc. It gives us a little more peace, and it doesn't matter if we wait a minute. It looks fine, active and committed now. Are the microphones working and is it in place? Is that what it's supposed to be? We're just gonna have to get a message on that. Are we ready? Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129102244	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the four parties that have called for this debate. It is always a good thing to discuss things, because it also gives me the opportunity to explain again why training can no longer meet the employment requirement for obtaining permanent residence permits here in Denmark. As can also be seen from the notification of the question, the Danish Parliament adopted at the end of January 2016 draft law L 87, which contains some very significant restrictions in the area of asylum and residence. In my view and in the view of the government, these were absolutely necessary tightenings, but nevertheless the four parties that voted against the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party.The background to the tightening of the Aliens Act was the government's desire to tighten further on the conditions of asylum and access to Denmark, so that it became significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark. When it was absolutely necessary, it was, of course, because the asylum crisis in autumn 2015 resulted in a lot of pressure on Denmark, a pressure that simply threatened our cohesion, and a pressure that distorted the balance between the fact that we must of course assume joint responsibility, and so do we, but we must also maintain a good and secure Denmark. That is why it was necessary to tighten up the rules because, in the view of the government, the conditions in the field of foreigners are of importance to the attractiveness of Denmark. Therefore, it is also necessary to continue to maintain strict rules when we cherish Denmark. One of the elements was a tightening of the conditions for obtaining permanent residence, i.e. permanent residence permits. Basically, it is a matter for me that the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit in Denmark is a privilege. Therefore, there must be high demands on the ability and willingness of foreigners to integrate into Danish society. We tightened up, among other things. In this context, it should be pointed out that, as a result of the introduction of new forms of employment, there is a need for full-time employment, both in the form of a new requirement that permanent links with the labour market can only be achieved through full-time employment, but also in the sense that training can no longer be equated with employment in order to meet the employment requirement. Whether it is a long-term higher education or a professional bachelor's degree, or whether it is a vocational training course. In spring 2017, the government has tightened the requirement further, and today the employment requirement means that foreigners must have been in ordinary full-time or self-employed employment for at least 31⁄2 years in the last 4 years prior to the granting of permanent residence permits. Both sharpenings indicate that, in the view of the government, permanent residence permits should be reserved for foreigners who have made an active effort to integrate themselves through permanent links with the labour market. In the case of permanent residence permits, it is now the case that employment is the focal point. A permanent residence permit means that a foreigner normally has the right to remain in this country, even if the basis for the residence permit is no longer there or even if, for example, he is not present. become dependent on public help. Therefore, permanent residence permits are also special in the government's optics. It is a commitment that it is Denmark that you have the opportunity to live your life in. It is set aside for the high demands and clear demands we make. This is also the reason for the demand that a commitment to a life in this country be based on the fact that as a foreigner we have contributed to society through regular full-time work over a long period of time. I don't really understand why it should be a problem. When we open our country to new citizens, we must also make firm demands on who will be able to stay here. Permanent residence is something that one should earn by living a life outside crime, by speaking Danish at a relatively high level and also by, of course, by working in this country, in this way giving something back. This does not mean that education should not be sought, actually, on the contrary, and I very much disagree with the fact that this aim of the employment requirement should make it impossible to be qualified, on the contrary. I have to say that I find it difficult to understand that the prospect of permanent residence should actually cause someone to opt out of education, because we know that education is precisely an important step on the road to a better life and also to gain a foothold in the labour market, whether it is a life in this country or whether it is a life outside Denmark. However, the requirement is an expression of the government's view that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits should be reserved for those who have actively attached themselves to Danish society by working. I am of the opinion that the high demands we are making to obtain permanent residence permits will lead to extra efforts by foreigners to be integrated into Danish society and therefore also into the labour market, simply taking part in the ordinary Danish daily life. In this way, opportunities for successful integration will be strengthened. Those who make an effort will be rewarded. It is possible that some people will have to wait a little longer to obtain their permanent residence permit, but that does not, of course, mean that an effort will not pay off, actually on the contrary, and that does not mean that they will be excluded from obtaining permanent residence permits, on the contrary. You have to reach for it. So the answer to the question is also that the government does not plan to roll back the tightening of the employment requirement so that training can again meet the employment requirement. Should I sum up the government's position, it is that we will make high demands on foreigners who have come to Denmark, we will make high demands on reaching out for Denmark, one must of course earn a permanent residence permit, and one must also be encouraged to learn the Danish language and to get to work. In this way, I believe, we will strengthen our wonderful society, and we will strengthen the opportunity for successful integration into the labour market and also the fact that we can take part in the ordinary Danish daily life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103050	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103104	Thank you, Minister. In other words, it is not because I have doubts that the Minister and the government and the government's support party want a strict immigration policy and that they want as few people as possible to do so. It's slipped in, after all. What is interesting is whether the tool of laying down a leg span for education is a wise tool, even if you want to achieve what the Minister wants to achieve. In virtually every context of Danish society we encourage the population to improve their skills through education, and the explanation for this is simple: In Denmark we cannot and must not compete by having the lowest wages or the worst working conditions. We must compete on our skills, whether it is skill in craftsmanship or skill in academic subjects or, for that matter, skill in artistic subjects. And skill requires education. That is why it is also crying out, if we as a society make leeway for the unskilled workman to become a skilled craftsman, that the cleaning assistant in the hospital can train himself as a doctor, and for that matter that the garbage worker puts the diet on the shelf to get to the music conservatory and end up in the Royal Chapel. It is actually so obvious that it is stupid, and I am almost ashamed to use the high chair of Things to present it and, of course, the honourable Members' time on such banalities. But it is obviously not banalism when it comes to people from other countries who have come here. All of a sudden, it's all right to make leg buckles for their desire to take an education; then it's all of a sudden much better that they e.g. taxi drivers remain rather than train for one of the doctors we need so badly. And that is why we have this question today. We simply do not think that it is wise for Denmark to make leeway for foreigners who have settled here, who are living here, in other words to strain the way that they take an education and are able to do as much as is now possible within the framework of their abilities and their diligence. And that is what happens when the government has introduced a rule that has been tightened for several times as a rewarder of unskilled work rather than training in relation to obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark. I have to admit that it makes me a little shocked if a foreign minister who knows the situation in many of the places where people come from does not understand people's desire to have a permanent residence permit that gives them security during their lives. It shakes me a little if the Minister doesn't understand. But there is one more reason why this discrimination is not very clever, and it is the Government's own repeated desire that refugees should at least return to their country of origin when they are given the opportunity to do so and help rebuild their country as the government has expressed it. Actually, I understand that thinking. Not many people are fleeing for fun, and many of the countries from which people have had to flee certainly need reconstruction. But let us take a thoughtful but concrete example, where after ten years there will be peace in Syria. Which of the foreigners from Syria who are in Denmark will feel in the best position to come home and help with the reconstruction: an unskilled person who has spent his 10 years in Denmark washing dishes, or one who has spent his 10 years in Denmark getting a professional training as a bricklayer, an electrician, or who may even have read on and become a builder or engineer? Asking the question alone gives the answer. It is never wise to make legholds for people to get an education, whether they are going to stay in Denmark or whether they want or are being forced to go back at some point. Therefore (on behalf of EL, ALT, RV and SF) I have to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that since 2016 training has not been concluded in calculating whether a person is entitled to permanent residence permit, has damaged integration and encouraged foreigners to take unskilled work rather than to train themselves for the benefit of themselves and the Danish society. On this basis, the Folketing invites the government to present in this Assembly proposals for amendment of the Aliens Act, so that training is again included in the calculation of the right to permanent residence permit. • V 19)
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103629	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103644	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the parties for calling this debate. The demands for permanent residence and also later Danish citizenship, according to the Social Democratic Party, must reflect the expectations that we as a society can reasonably place on the people who have come to Denmark, our new fellow citizens. So what exactly can we expect? We in the Social Democratic Party believe that we can reasonably expect people to learn our language, Danish, both so that the new arrivals understand the society they have arrived in so that they can participate in it, but also so that we others can understand what they think and think. Therefore, requirements for our language are a central part of the legislation on the achievement of permanent residence. Similarly, we have the expectation that people will contribute to the society to which they have arrived. In a social democratic welfare society, work for both women and men is the main rule. It has to be that way for people of working age. Support is the exception. It is therefore also quite natural that permanent residence requirements require self-support. In the past, it has been possible to meet this requirement by going to school and receiving su. We do not think that is fair. Denmark makes schools, hospitals, homes and much more available from day one for new arrivals, and then we do not think it is too much to ask that foreigners also contribute little tax dollars to the welfare society. We therefore consider it sensible that people who wish to obtain permanent residence in Denmark have either been in full-time employment or have had their own business for some years. Foreigners should not be able to qualify for permanent stay in Denmark by going to school. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we would like to see employment relationships in the context of a vocational training course in which a pupil's salary is paid according to the applicable agreement to be included in the calculation of the period during which the employment requirement for obtaining a permanent residence permit is fulfilled. I also proposed this in connection with the adoption of legislation L 87, and we are happy to propose it again. As long as people have a regular job that is paid by a real employer, we believe that it should count as employment like everything else. With these words we look forward to a debate, and on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have continually tightened the rules for obtaining unlimited residence permits, and that the government considers that permanent residence permits are a privilege which should be reserved for foreigners who have made an active effort to integrate into Danish society by among other things. to work and be self-supporting. The Danish Parliament notes that, on this basis, the Government does not find any basis for amending the existing rules on permanent residence permits, including the employment requirement. At the same time, the Folketing stresses that the temporary nature of refugees must be understood as temporary. • V 20).
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103942	This proposal is also included in the further discussions. Then some have asked for comments. First, it's sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129103953	Thanks for the speech. This is, after all, one of the areas in which the Social Democrats have changed their minds when we sat together in government. Because in the government base we created in 2011, it said that education should count when it comes to full-time employment. What we agreed at the time was that it was a bad idea for people who waited for permanent residence to all go out and take unskilled work because they could not take an education if they wanted to stay. Why have you changed your attitude so that you now think that all refugees on temporary residence should go out and work unskilled in competition with the many unemployed Danes who are unskilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104043	Try not to use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104050	Thank you for the question. The rapporteur of the Radical Left is right to say that under the previous government education was part of the employment requirement. I think that was a bad change myself, and I think it is a good thing that we have changed it. The question then is why. That is because I believe that the requirements for obtaining permanent residence permits should reflect the expectations we have of people who come here. I think we have been too imprecise about what kind of expectations we have for people who come to our society. I can, for example. Remember that my own father was always so frustrated, and he said: What do the Danes want me to do? It is very Danish, I think, that we are such imprecise, and that we say things between the lines, and therefore I think it is very good that we very square in our legislation get said that if you want to be here permanently, then the following is the thing you have to live up to: Do not break the law, you must speak our language, and you must contribute to our society with work. That is the starting point. It is quite fine if you want to take an education and we have a very attractive education system, but then it will not count in the employment requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104156	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104159	Thank you. Let us follow the premise. The rapporteur said that when you come as a foreigner to Denmark, you have to contribute tax dollars, and that is one of them. the argument that training is not included in the requirement to obtain permanent residence. But does the rapporteur not agree with me that the better and the longer an education you have, the more tax dollars you contribute to Danish society? If you have an opportunity to take a long, higher education, for example. While you are in Denmark, does the day you can obtain your permanent residence permit have a starting point which in the long run contributes many more tax dollars than if you are unskilled and have no education?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104242	Now I know that the Alternative's rapporteur is a trained sociologist, and I myself am a trained bricklayer, and I think you will be able to find many of my colleagues who earn much more money and pay much more tax dollars than many of your colleagues. So I do not want to say that there is any clear coherence in that. But even if you could, I would say that there is no doubt that for Danish society and for the financing of the Danish welfare state it is better that people have a job here and now than that people are in education and receive SU here and now, and that is why I think it is quite reasonable to say to people: we provide a welfare state and for you to have permanent residence in it, you have also contributed to it with tax dollars. I think that is actually fair. If you are an early retirement or an old-age pensionist and do not have the opportunity to contribute something that can be a lot of reasons and which is an honest case, then the law also takes that into account today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104332	Thank you. Once again, I must make it clear that we must comply with the Rules of Procedure and not use direct charges. It was the rapporteur who was presumptuous to do so. I can see that there was some doubt, but it was actually the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104345	Thank you. I noticed that in the proposal for adoption the rapporteur had completely forgotten the Socialist proposal. I mean, isn't that serious at all? Otherwise, the Social Democratic Party could have put forward its own proposal for adoption, emphasising it with the unskilled, who could become skilled if it were in the context of a company training, etc. But the Social Democrats have completely forgotten that, so it is obviously not something that is seriously meant. Then I noticed another point in the statement, namely that it says that temporary is temporary. Then we can stop the discussion here, because if it is temporary, people will never be granted permanent residence permits. If people don't need a permanent residence permit, it doesn't matter what they do. So is that statement a call to stop the discussion, or what is really meant by temporary?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104436	Thank you for your comment. Those were two different questions. First of all, we have not forgotten our view that if you are in employment with an employer, you should of course count as part of the employment requirement. We are absolutely committed to this, but this is not something we can convince the government and the Danish People's Party, unfortunately. In fact, we tried that once. We tabled an amendment to the legislation that the Minister also mentioned, L 87, but unfortunately it was voted down. But we are absolutely committed to that. We find it strange that ordinary full-time work is 37 hours a week, it is totally unsupported, it is pay from an employer, either a private or a public service should not count on the employment requirement. That doesn't make any sense. So we are absolutely committed to that. Secondly, temporary nature is temporary, I would say, yes, of course. I find it hard to argue for the opposite. This means that when people get a temporary residence permit, that is the purpose, that is, that we have temporary protection for people. Then I also think it is quite reasonable to say that it cannot last forever, and therefore at some point there must be the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit. That can now be seen after eight years, at least as a rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104545	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104547	I have to say that when I heard Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's speech, I was surprised to say it a little mild. I believe that the whole social democratic welfare project, the social democratic education project, was indeed that the working class should train itself. Of course, we must contribute to the labour market, but a prerequisite for society to develop and for us to have more equality, justice, education, education and training. That is what the architects of the welfare society, Hansen, Kampmann, Krag, and all of them, argued for. Now, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that education can in fact be almost harmful and that it is better for them to be in the labour market rather than training, or that education is certainly not beneficial at all. I simply do not understand the thinking of the whole concept of education that he is expressing here. Or is it that he still thinks so in relation to, if I may say so, the old Danes? For Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has in other contexts been very active in this area very commendable, I think, and then it will be different when it comes to new dancers. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104708	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104709	Every time I give a rapporteur's speech, the SF rapporteur says that the SF rapporteur is surprised. And every time, I think there's some strawmen coming. In this case, the SF rapporteur says that I have said that education can be almost harmful and that they are not beneficial. Where did I say that? I didn't say that anywhere. It is just something that the SF's rapporteur allows himself to ask and say in the Chamber. I simply do not think it makes any sense to argue in this way. I have not said that education is harmful. I also do not think, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that we have laid down legholds. We have a finely masked network of education systems. We pay out the world's highest su. We have an excellent education system which we make available to people from day one. How can one even argue that it is a leghold for taking education? People can take all the education they want. All I am arguing for is that if you want to obtain the extra right, that is to be able to be here permanently, then it is reasonable that you have contributed to the society that is making it all available. There's the other thing that's strange, that is to say, as one could before that you can be on su for plenty of years, and then you can get permanent stay. It doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104816	Thank you. And then Mr. Søren Søndergaard was right in favour of one last question when I had given Mr. Søndergaard the floor. Holger K. Nielsen the word. Will Mr. Søren Søndergaard just have a brief comment to make? Well, don't you have two? ) Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104831	We see many compromises and so on. and so on, and the text produced by the Social Democrats and the government is a compromise in which, firstly, the Social Democrats' main demand is not with the drop there, although one could have put forward one's own proposal for adoption, and why is one really with the government when it does not express the policy of the Social Democrats? So says Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: But it isn't anyway, because of course you have to at some point... Yes, but when? Are the authors of the motion for a resolution agreed on this, or is it simply completely empty and empty? A cover is created to get a proposal for adoption that does not reflect anything at all. How long is that temporaryness, I'd like to ask Mr. Mattias Tesfaye? I would just like to point out that the permanent residence permit is not an extra right, an extra detail. If you start a family and try to raise your children in a Danish tradition, it is of course not an extra thing whether you can risk being thrown out at today's notice or if you cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104940	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129104941	Well, I must admit that I think there is a lot of talk here by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The Social Democratic Party firmly believes that employment as part of vocational training should be included in the employment requirement. That view has not changed simply because we have made a proposal for adoption together with the government and the Danish People's Party. We just want to signal that the majority that has passed the law is still missing. We therefore consider it essential that the very broad majority in the Folketing, which supports the rules for permanent residence permits, should also be able to bring together a proposal for adoption. This does not alter the fact that we have the position that we cannot then convince the bourgeois, that is to say that vocational training must count as part of the employment requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105021	Thank you, and then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also just pressed himself into one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105025	What this is all about is, of course, the incentive to take an education, and the Socialist rapporteur must admit that the new rules mean that the incentives to take an education are being reduced. Is it not a good thing that people who are in this country, who are in the labour market and who, alternatively, have unskilled jobs, have incentives to take an education so that they can be trained? It has always been social democratic education policy that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105058	In fact, I very much agree that what we are talking about here is what we want to signal; what we expect people to live up to in order to be able to obtain a permanent residence permit. I understand from the questioners that it is important that there is an incentive that makes you stop as a bricklayer and become a construction designer or stop as a garbageman and come in and play in the Royal Chapel or whatever it was. But I actually think it's fine that some people wash dishes, wash dishes, drive garbage, and show that the society they have arrived to, they want to contribute to. And I think it is quite fair that that society then at one point says: Thank you very much for your contribution, thank you for learning Danish; thank you for having observed the law; thank you for contributing tax dollars; here is a permanent residence permit. I think that makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105146	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105149	I would like to ask the same question again, because Mr. Mattias Tesfaye did not reply to what I asked when I spoke last time: why does Social Democracy think it is a good idea for refugees to choose to go out and compete with all the unemployed unskilled people we have? Why does the Social Democrats think it is a good idea for all refugees to work as unskilled workers instead of taking an education? I find that very difficult to understand, and I hope, sir. Mattias Tesfaye will answer it this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105219	I myself have worked with people who are here as refugees on a residence permit. I don't think of them as competitors. These are ordinary colleagues. I think it is quite reasonable for refugees to get into employment. In fact, I think it is the main task of integration policy that people get a job. The main task is not that people are on su- entitled education for many years, and when their temporary residence permit expires, it can then be withdrawn, and then they can be sent home. I think it is quite reasonable that during the period they are here, we focus on people first and foremost in employment and learning Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105255	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105258	Thank you. Then I would also like to ask my second question. When we were negotiating the agreement on rates in the field of integration, we looked, among other things. on this with who it is that goes home, and whether you can make some distinctions or see some trends, in relation to who stays in Denmark and who goes home. There is research, indeed thin research, but we are told that there is research from Sweden which points out that it is in fact those who have an education that choose to return home to a greater extent, which is of course a little interesting. Does the rapporteur not agree with this when he says here that if you do not contribute to Danish society, you have to return home? If it is the case that it is those who have a higher education that go home, what is in any way the bad thing for someone that you get an education, whether you choose to stay in Denmark or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105350	Thank you for the question. I think it is a really relevant issue, who really is going home. I also read the documents we received in the course of the negotiations. I do not really think there is any justification for saying what the Alternative's rapporteur is saying now. I would almost say, unfortunately, because I am looking with light and light for solid research that documents who really is going home. However, even if it showed this, I would say that the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits should not be supported. The purpose for us is not to support people going home; the purpose is to support what we think is reasonable for obtaining permanent residence permits. The other thing I'd think was kind of backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105429	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur and we need a new rapporteur. This is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105439	With the adoption of Bill No. L 87 the requirement to obtain permanent residence permits in a number of areas was tightened up. In the past, education could count, and after L 87 it could no longer count. The Danish People's Party supported L 87 and the reinforced demand, and we still do. We believe that there is a difference between obtaining an education which is, after all, a kind of gift from the Danish state and being in employment. When you are in employment, you do something for yourself, and that is essential. In the Danish People's Party, we also believe that it is very important that there are strict requirements on who can obtain permanent residence permits, and we therefore see no reason to relax the law, as the questioners here want. On the other hand, we believe that the law should be tightened up so that it will be impossible for asylum seekers to obtain permanent residence in Denmark, because all refugees should only be temporary in Denmark. Of course, refugees must return to their own country as soon as possible. Instead of integrating refugees into Danish society, we should do everything we can to get them ready to come back to their home countries and help rebuild the countries of origin. This is among other things. What is being negotiated at the moment. So we are in favour of tightening up, not relaxing the requirements for permanent residence permits. Therefore, it is also so important to stress that temporary nature is indeed DF can therefore endorse the proposal for adoption which was read out just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105629	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105631	Thanks for the speech. We're gonna have to figure this out. If you say that temporaryness is temporaryness and if it is and when there is no transition to anything else for refugees, it doesn't matter whether one thing or the other matters. That is why I should just have understood correctly: the proposal for adoption that has been put forward here means that there is no possibility for refugees on temporary residence permits to move to a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105711	This means that we are not doing that, which is what the text of the adoption means. In addition, I say in my speech that the Danish People's Party really wants to tighten up the law. We do not want refugees to get a motorway to stay permanently in Denmark. It is quite simply wrong to do so. That is why we wish to stress in the motion for a resolution that temporary
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105743	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105744	So, excuse me for asking about the proposal for adoption that the rapporteur himself has helped to sign, but I suppose you have signed something you have an opinion on. Therefore, when it is said that temporaryness is temporary, it must be reasonable to ask whether it is right or whether it is temporary until temporaryity is no longer temporary. But you may not have any idea of that in the circle that has signed it there. So that wording cannot be taken at face value at all. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Krarup whether what is involved in this is that, of course, you can never, as a refugee, obtain a permanent residence permit. Because if that is what it says here, I admit that if it is adopted, our proposal does not matter, because then we do not have to look at the right to gain, at least not in relation to refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105840	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105841	Well, I can just repeat what I have said: we do not want any relaxations and we want to emphasise that refugees are of course here temporarily. And that's the general rule. That some kind of dispensation can then be granted in some very special situation. But in the Danish People's Party we want to emphasise the temporary nature. That is also why we have the negotiations we are having right now. So we want to see the groups of people split up, so that refugees are not covered by such a motorway, whether they are included in training or not, because that should not be possible. However, as long as we have this general view, where, unfortunately, all foreigners are treated equally, it is extremely important to stress that education cannot be a motorway to permanent residence permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105929	Thank you. There are no more questioners, so we need a new rapporteur. It's sir. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129105942	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors for today's question debate. It is quite true that the government has continually tightened the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits. We have done so on the basis of a basic view that unlimited or permanent residence permits are a privilege to be earned. As you know, in January 2016, we made some significant restrictions in the area of asylum and residence. This was necessary since the asylum crisis put massive pressure on Denmark. Although we have managed to manage the influx well, it remains important that we stick to the strict rules so that we can ensure the cohesion of our society. One of the screws we tightened back in 2016 was the conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits. We tightened up on this, among other things. the employment requirement in several places. We introduced a requirement that a permanent link with the labour market can only be achieved through a full-time job. We also decided that training should no longer be equated with employment. Thus, you can only meet the employment requirement by being in full-time employment. It is the government's view that permanent residence permits should be reserved for foreigners who actively contribute to society. We think that is a reasonable requirement. If you, as a foreigner, want to stay in this country, even if the basis for your residence permit is no longer there, you have to earn it. You have to learn the Danish language, you have to stay within the framework of the law, you have to take a full-time job, you have to contribute in other words. The employment requirement today means that foreigners must have been in ordinary full-time or self-employed employment for at least 31⁄2 years in the last 4 years prior to the granting of permanent residence permits. This does not mean that as a foreigner in Denmark you should not take an education. In Denmark you can train your whole life, and it is never too late to improve your skills through education. The employment requirement, on the other hand, reflects the fact that permanent residence permits should be granted to those who have made an active effort to integrate into Danish society, among others. by working and being self-supporting. Some people may therefore have to wait longer for their permanent residence permit, but if this is genuine, it may not make a big difference in the end. We make high demands on the will and ability of foreigners to integrate into Danish society, and we see no reason to change that. Thus, the Government has neither wishes nor plans to withdraw the employment requirement so that training can be re-incorporated in the calculation of the right to permanent residence permit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110248	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110253	It is very funny that, in connection with brexit, everyone including the government has of course been extremely concerned about the uncertainty that it created for people, Danes in Britain, as to whether they could stay and how they should adapt and so on. However, the extension of an uncertainty for a person who chooses to take a training course by 4 years after the legislation in force 3 years and 6 months is not a problem. Maybe I think that's a little weird. However, I have to stick to the adoption which was read out but which we have not received and which, therefore, I may not remember quite correctly, but I heard that it was said that temporaryness is temporary. And there we have had an interpretation of what this means, from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely that it means that in exceptional cases a derogation can be granted, if you are a refugee, that you are granted a permanent residence permit. Is it an agreement that includes the Left that, in such a way, we abolish the permanent residence permit for refugees and that only in exceptional cases can a derogation be granted? Because then I realize that our question is kind of indifferent. Because if you can't get a permanent residence permit in any way, it doesn't matter whether you do one or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110410	Thank you for the question. Well, I think the answer is something like that if we look at the way we perceive it to be a refugee, it is implicit in the notion that it is something we are temporarily. We can then look at what has happened historically, namely that nine out of ten, who should actually be here temporarily, will end up here permanently. Now we want to point out that we want to return to the fact that being a refugee is something that is temporary. We are so much more so, and thus we are living up to what is in the text of the adoption if eight out of ten remain here permanently or seven out of ten, or six out of ten, or two out of ten. Where we end up with that number, I can't say. As Mrs Krarup said, she saw it as something that should be in a special case, and if that is where we are landing, I cannot answer. But it is a wish that it is no longer nine out of ten that there is a temporary nature in being a refugee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110507	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110511	The confusion is spreading. I mean, temporaryness isn't temporary. Then why do you write it? So why is it written that temporaryness is temporary when what should have been written was that temporaryness is temporary, but that it is not temporary under certain circumstances anyway? It's a little interesting for people. That sounds good: temporaryness is temporary. I know, for example. Many Iranian refugees, people who have fought against the Islamist dictatorships in Iran • Not so many do, and they do not get as much support from the West as they should have, but some did, and some of them were forced to flee, and they are still here. Should they be sent home to the Ayatollah regime, or should they live temporarily in Denmark in forty years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110555	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110558	You have to go back to your homeland, and as Mr. Christian Langballe said at one point up here from this chair, it's never a punishment to be sent back to your homeland, but of course you only have to do so in a situation where the conditions that exist in your homeland make you able to return. That is why the concept of temporary nature and the concept of refugee has always been something that has had an implicit rubber band in it, and I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows when he asks the question. That is why we have had a reality before, when nine out of ten refugees ended up here permanently, and now we want to make the implicit temporary nature, which should be self-evident in the concept of refugee, something that we attach more importance to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110641	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110646	Thank you. I actually had another question, but I can come back to that. I have to stick to it with the temporary nature of the matter, because I do not really understand it either, at least not in relation to what is in the proposal for adoption here. Do we not agree that if you come as a refugee to Denmark and you get to work now you certainly do not take an education, because you cannot, in order to obtain a permanent residence permit, but in a number of years you meet the requirements to apply for a permanent stay and get it awarded to you then you are no longer temporary in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110723	You are here on a temporary basis to the extent that you cannot go back. That is the way it is. If you are then in a situation where what you have to go back to never changes, then there is a logical lacuna in saying that you are here temporarily because it is something you cannot translate at any time. Therefore, discussing temporary nature is something that is done within the understanding that the concept has a framework around it that may not be fulfilled. You can never send a person back if the war never ends where you have fled, for example. After all, we are all well aware that this is the case, and therefore some temporary nature is something that is permanent, even if we want it to be temporary, because the war has not stopped or peace has not fallen over the country from which we have fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110817	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110821	Thank you. What I am trying to point out is that if you come to the country as a refugee and have a permanent stay because you meet the criteria, we cannot say that you are still a temporary refugee in Denmark. And when the parties write in the proposal for adoption that the Parliament stresses at the same time that the temporary nature of refugees should be understood as temporary status, then there is something that does not fit together in that we also provide permanent residence for some people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110845	But in that case we are also talking about someone who is no longer a refugee, but now has a permanent stay in Denmark so there is a new situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110857	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129110900	Well, I actually think it's a little interesting too, yes, maybe not this semantic discussion that's come up. But when you look at the proposal for adoption that we have not all received, unfortunately, yet, it is a sentence that has simply been added. In other words, everything else in the proposal for adoption is about what this question is really about, and then comes a sentence which states: "The Parliament stresses at the same time that the temporary nature of refugees must be understood as temporary. Then it is that you get a little bit curious, if I may say so, about what is really in it. When you know that a paradigm change is being discussed in the financial negotiations, and you know that the Danish People's Party absolutely does not want refugees to be in education or in the labour market at all... they have to be temporary... you have the feeling that with this sentence you're making an advance on what comes there. I would like to know if this is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111004	I cannot, of course, talk about any negotiations that I do not participate in, nor do I have direct access to, but I have read in the daily press, as the questioner also has, that this is one of the things being discussed. I cannot come any closer to what comes out of those negotiations. But if we put aside what is now going on elsewhere, about which I do not know anything, then in the concept of refugee there is an agreed temporary nature. You seek retreat, you seek shelter while the storm rages. When the storm stops, you keep looking from your shelter. That is why it is important to discuss the semantics of what is meant by temporary nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111049	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111052	Yes, yes, certainly, but the discussion has to be about whether, in the intervening period when you seek shelter, where you have your retreat, you can do something sensible. That's what this is all about, isn't it? And there I understand that the Danish People's Party will at least have a paradigm change, where you shouldn't be able to do anything sensible, because it may be that you have a thought that the people in question will stay in this retreat instead of going home to war and strife and all that. So I think it is interesting to know that this is simply, if you may say so, an advance on the paradigm shift being negotiated at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111131	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111135	There I can answer that it is the view of the Left and the Government that when you are here whether it is temporary or in another way you end up here on a very long temporary or even permanent basis you must actively contribute to society, and that is what you do best by being in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111152	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111200	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party suggested that refugees should be completely cut off from being able to apply for permanent residence. Does the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111212	No, the Left does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111216	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111223	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that the proposal for adoption, which we in the Danish People's Party also support, states that, at the same time, the Danish Parliament stresses that the temporary nature of refugees is one issue. The second question is: are there no foreigners in Denmark other than refugees? And the third question is: is it not true that in the joint proposal for adoption at the opening debate it says that at the same time practice must be changed so that temporary stays will also actually be temporary? That's common sense. It is in the proposal for adoption from the opening debate this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111307	Yeah, that's exactly right. So, to the questioner's three questions, I can say that is quite correct, and that is also something we support. But we are also aware that we have not yet translated what is quite understood by the framework, and that is among other things. some of the negotiations that are going on, about which I know very little.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111325	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111329	It's more to stress to the other side of the Folketing that this is kind of something that's been here all along. But this is clearly also something that we in the Danish People's Party want to see more streaked out. However, it should not be so surprising that this is part of a joint proposal for adoption, because it was also in the opening debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111346	I do not know whether this was a question for the rapporteur. That was a comment, yes. But here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111400	There was no question in the comment, so I will not answer anything I have not been formulated as a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111411	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111429	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the very exciting semantic debate, which reminds me of when I taught at Roskilde University Centre. It has been a great pleasure to keep up here. The question is, of course, a question to clarify why the government does not believe that training should count as employment in relation to permanent residence permits. It's been illuminated from different angles. In my answer, I would also like to say that I am the rapporteur for education and research and therefore follow the field of education very closely. There is an interesting link between education and employment, which we have not mentioned so much yet, namely that education does not necessarily lead to employment. If you look at non-western immigrants, they look very much like Danes when you look at education. There are several non-Western immigrants who do not have a qualification, but there are also more non-Western immigrants who have long higher education. It should then be imagined that it would also give employment rates that are similar, but it does not. It's an empirical relationship. Nevertheless, in terms of employment, despite what I have said, there are quite large differences in employment. This is linked to a problem which we are very aware of in the educational world but which has not found its solution. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Mattias Tesfaye said, such that there are very large incentives to take an education in Denmark. The private economic incentive is very great because we have the world's highest su. This has led to such a problem in the education sector, which is that unfortunately there are some parts of our education system which act as such a kind of heating room for people who would like to have the private economic advantage of getting su but who do not seem to really intend to use the training they take afterwards. We can also see that there is a particular group of students with a non-Western background who apply to places where there is no obligation to attend and where there are not very high demands. So I can add to what has been said, by the way, that as long as we have not solved this problem with parts of our education system that are dysfunctional, to put it nicely, we cannot support this idea that education and employment are something we should be able to equate. Of course, this should not be resolved under the circumstances in which we are here. But I can say that this is something that we are of course very aware of in the field of education. Our education system is not quite perfect, and we have branches of the system that have this function as a heating room. We will not go along with that at all. Then you can have semantic discussions and I look forward to exciting semantic issues, but what we see in our proposal for adoption is that for now we support the fact that the legal situation is quite fine and we do not want it to be changed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111838	Thank you. I just want to point out that now we all have to get used to these new forms of work, and that is, as usual, if I may say, when you have two comments, you take them after each other. We didn't quite agree at first, so we need to be aware of that now. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129111854	Thank you. I'm gonna drop the semantics for a while, 'cause I think we should keep things separate. It is true that there are some young people coming to Denmark, taking some educations, and some of them going back home, and there may be a challenge in that some money is being given to the SU, which Denmark does not see the benefit of in the long run. That is true, it is a discussion that is taking place in the educational world. One of the things we are talking about here is, of course, refugees who come to Danish society, and their opportunity to, in the long term, be said to have permanent residence. I just think I have heard from both the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Left rapporteur, and also the Minister for that matter, that it is as if it is considered that having a job means showing that you want to actively integrate, whereas that is not the case when you are in education. I would really like to have a few more words on that, because why do we think that the person, the refugee who may have come from Syria, or what do I know, who is in education, is not as interested, as committed, as good a citizen as the person who has an unskilled job?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112011	One part of the answer is that I belong to a group of parties who believe that the citizens are best off in the competition state's hamster wheel, where they work and pay taxes, and that is why it is of course an important part of being a Dane to run around in this hamster wheel. The second point is that our education system simply does not function as it should function after denomination. It's too easy to be in one of these heating rooms where there's no meeting obligations and where there's very, very low requirements and where you can receive SU for a really, really long time. I'd love to see that cleaned up. But when we have not been able to find a majority to clean up these things, I find it quite unacceptable that we should be able to obtain permanent residence permits by registering for this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112058	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112101	So I have to understand that it's a human vision argument? Isn't that what I'm hearing? It is therefore considered that the citizen who acts in the competitive state is the one who will be able to integrate. It is, of course, a huge mistrust that comes from the rapporteur here, against the refugee who might have come to Denmark and would like to take an education, to shoot him in the shoes, that he or she does not really bother or just want to sit at home with his feet up. That's a little what I hear, so it's also some kind of distrust of the person who comes to Denmark, in that if you want to train, you don't really want Denmark, but if you want to work, you want Denmark. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112148	First of all, my answer must be understood in the sense that there are some problems in our education system which have not been resolved and until the day when these problems have been resolved, I cannot at all, as in the Socialist rapporteur, have described very much the state of competition as to when you are a good citizen of Denmark. This can be discussed in terms of value back and forth, but it is an empirically comprehensive description. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112225	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112229	I'm sorry to bother you, sir. Henrik Dahl with a discussion about what Mr. Mr Dahl's proposal for adoption. I am now quite sure that if the Enhedslisten put forward a proposal for adoption which stated that all refugees must have a permanent residence permit, as soon as they set foot on Danish soil, Mr. Henrik Dahl asked what it really meant. What does "permanent" mean, it applies to all • etc.? That is why it is quite reasonable to ask the opposite way, since it is clear from the text that no refugee should be able to obtain permanent residence permits. No refugee The Hungarians who came once in 1956 should have been sent home in 1989 when the wall fell. Well, it's fair to ask, isn't it? So I would just like to ask, for the sake of good order, that having a job brings more money in the private sector than getting a job, isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112331	I don't mind semantic discussions. I also started my rapporteur's speech by saying that it reminded me of the happy days when I was an assistant professor at Roskilde University Centre, and it was really nice. There we discussed rhetorical concepts such as tautology which it might be a little interesting to discuss in this context and I think all of that is good and fine. It must also be incorporated into the rule of the people. Although there is no minimum wage in Denmark, I would like to say that paid work is usually a greater private economic advantage than su.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112406	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112410	I just think that sir... Henrik Dahl places what is contained in a proposal for adoption in the Folketing at a certain level. Well, it's like discussing down at the RUC. No, it's not. It should preferably be reasonably considered, what is written in draft adoption in the Folketing. But I understand that's not the way it is for sir. Henrik Dahl. So right up to the point of pay: that means quite clearly that the refugee who thinks of his economy, the refugee who thinks of himself in the short term, gets the most out of taking a job, whereas the refugee who thinks of a little longer-term, for example. in relation to what he or she can later do for Denmark or can do for his or her country of origin when he or she goes home, is disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112455	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112458	The first part of the question is, after all, still missing, how to interpret the proposal for adoption, and it is perfectly legitimate to ask about it. I agree with the explanations that have been given. The general thrust of the text of the proposal for adoption is that there is a majority saying that we must maintain the legal status that exists. And the second thing is that there is a category, and the category of temporary staff is a category that we want to maintain, and we want to make it clear that it is not a category that is built into a progression, so there is not a progression until permanent stay. I can see that my speaking time has expired, and so I feel that I have answered the question about education and how the education system works and why we have some reservations about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112547	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112553	I really think you get confused by this, I have to say. Well, we're talking about refugees here, right? We're talking about refugees, and that's where I understand that Mr. Henrik Dahl says that there is no change in the state of law. At the same time, however, he also says that it is not possible to achieve progression through education or work. At least that's how I heard it. What is crucial here is that, according to the current state of law of the government, refugees still have to be able to progress, if they work, as we would like, if they were to be trained. I am not assuming that this is an expression of removing the possibility of progression for refugees. That is what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112649	Yes, what we are saying is that there is a majority which, according to this text of adoption, says that the legal situation exists, we support. Then you can have different opinions, that has also been expressed in the debate, and then we say that the road from temporary to permanent should not be seen as a step on a ladder, it should not be seen as an automatic progression. We do not believe that there should be an automatic progression.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112717	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112720	Let me just ask again: does that mean that it will still be the case that refugees can have permanent residence if they work?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112734	The adoption means that we note that there is a state of law in force which is as it is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112745	Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129112757	Thank you. We, together with the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, have called for this question debate, and of course we do, because we would like to have a debate and ask the Minister about this stricter employment requirement, which was introduced back in 2015, which means that training does not count in the calculation when determining the possibility of permanent residence. We have the view in the Alternative that, of course, education should count in the calculation when people living in Denmark apply for permanent residence permits. And that is what we think, because we believe that education creates value. Of course, it creates value for the individual, but it also greatly creates value for society. In other words, this applies to all types of education, both vocational and higher education. It is a road to the labour market and it is a road to active citizenship. That is also why I am trying to point out why it is believed that education is not as much a foundation for active citizenship as work is. The place of education is also the place where you meet many different people with different backgrounds, and the meeting and exchanges between people you have in your education are super important for an engaging and engaging democratic society. The place of training, like the workplace, is the space where you can create meaningful communities where you can get to know Danes, get to know the association life and get to know Danish traditions etc. These are precisely the communities that are very much the subject of education. I think all of us who have taken an education know to what extent this is exactly where you actually create your supporting communities. And these are the communities that are important if we want a society that is full of active citizens rather than opposers. In this Chamber, we may not all agree on the question of whether it benefits Denmark and democracy, that people from all parts of the world and from different parts of the world come and settle in Denmark. In the alternative, we believe that this helps to create a living democracy, because we basically believe that diversity is indeed an important prerequisite for democracy. And although we do not agree with that, I know that there are others who are not there, I hope that we can all agree in this Chamber at least that taking an education is a positive thing and that we should have legislation that encourages people to take an education. Unfortunately, the conditions for permanent residence do not apply at this stage. After all, the way in which the rules are put together means that we are indirectly punishing those people who want to take an education. The rules right now encourage citizens who want to be part of Danish society not to take an education, because in practice it will mean that they will have to wait even longer to have a permanent stay in Denmark. This helps to create unequal opportunities for those who want to take an education, because if you want to take an education to improve their skills in the labour market, it also means that you have to live longer without the security that permanent residence provides and without being able to participate fully in democracy. And we are talking about people who are already legally resident in Denmark and want to be part of and become part of Danish society. In order to be able to participate in democratic processes, vote in parliamentary elections, etc. If you are a Danish citizen, you only have access to the democratic processes in Denmark. And permanent residence is like a condition of citizenship. It is therefore the closest thing to citizenship. The question then is how long to wait for it, and here the rules work against each other. After all, the rules on citizenship strongly encourage you to take an education, because if you take an education in Denmark for three years, you can obtain citizenship when you have lived and resided in Denmark continuously for five years. Usually it's nine years it takes to get citizenship. But then there is next to the rule that you must be granted permanent residence in order to obtain Danish citizenship, and here education does not count. It is therefore practically impossible to obtain citizenship after the five years, which is otherwise an option in the law. We have two laws here that actually work against each other. I do not believe that the rules in force help to increase the sense of belonging to our society and to be included. On the contrary, they help to exclude those people who basically just want to be part of the Danish society, contribute by taking an education and then get a job that can put some money in the Treasury • completely like the rest of us also want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113208	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113211	Thank you. But I understand that the alternative is that training should be included in the employment requirement, but I would like to ask: does the alternative really mean that there should be an employment requirement at all? Or does the alternative mean that people who, for example: has been on cash benefits, should be able to have permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113232	We believe that there must be an employment requirement, but that training must be part of the requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113236	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113239	Thank you. Today we say that you can apply for permanent residence after 8 years and that you must have worked for at least 31⁄2 years. Is it the alternative's view that the employment requirement should continue to be 31⁄2 years, but that education should then just count on, or does the alternative want to lower the 31⁄2 year limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113300	What we see as optimal is that we get combined work and education, i.e. that the 31⁄2 years include both work and education. Whether it is 31⁄2 years, or whether you have to adjust the number of years, I do not have to stand here and make myself wise, because that is not something we have a concrete proposal for. But my point is that the time frame we define from the Danish Parliament and where you must have been active in the Danish society must include both work and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113327	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113336	Denmark was one of the first countries to choose to write the right and duty to education into its constitution, its constitution. In the Radical Left, we have no doubt that the fact that our country has, for many years now, invested so massively in the fact that every generation should be the best educated ever, has helped to create the welfare society and the prosperity that we have in Denmark. For education offers opportunities for individuals to make decisions themselves, earn their own money, and for society, it means that we have a population that is able to contribute to welfare and create products of very high quality, which means that we have a high standard of living. That is why we find it so strange that in this country of education we choose to say that if a foreigner wants to stay here permanently, education is not a symbol that one has allowed oneself to integrate that one can and will Denmark, as the Left once said. We think that taking an education shows that you want to be part of Danish society, be integrated and make sure you get somewhere in life where you can support yourself and make a contribution. It is also crazy that we spend money on some people taking an education if we do not want to allow them to stay here afterwards and use that education for the benefit of the community. So, of course, we support the proposal for adoption that we are included in and think it should be good logic if you want a Denmark for those who can and want it to show that education is also part of the integration process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113536	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113540	Thank you. We may not agree on training as part of the employment requirement, but I would like to ask the Radical Left a question like my question to the Alternative. Back in the old days, in the good old 1980s, you had to be here for 3 years before you could apply for permanent residence permits. Then it became five years, then seven years, and when we sat in government together for six years, and now it has become eight years. That limit has flown a little back and forth, and I think that no matter what we mean here in the Folketing, we have a common interest in trying to get some peace around this so that people know what they can count on and what they can navigate after. So I am also a little interested to hear: where does the Radical Left actually stand? Today we have a rule in 8 years, and in some special cases, if you live up to some special things, then you can search for 4 years. Can the Radical Left support this and can we then reduce the disagreement to whether education should count as employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113638	No, we think that the Social Democracy should return to what you meant when you sat in government with us. It was then 6 years, and it was, as far as I remember, 3 years of employment where education could count, and then of course there was a requirement to have learned Danish and to have complied with the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113657	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113700	So the Radical Left's position on this question is: 6 years' stay in Denmark and 3 years' employment, with which education counts. Then the legislation is about where the Radical Left wants it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113716	Yes, with the addition that I think Mr. Mattias Tesfaye did not get it from my answer before that you must also have learned something Danish, and you should of course not have committed serious crime either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113726	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113733	I would like to hear a comment from the rapporteur on something that I think is missing in the whole of the presentation. And that is that the majority behind the proposal for adoption that we have discussed very thoroughly has a fundamentally different view than, for example, that of the Commission. Mr. Andreas Steenberg and the Radical Left. All the representatives of our parties mean by different words and some have written books about it and written articles about it etc. This is an historic mistake which we are gradually correcting. And that is why it is a strange discussion whether one should go back to something which is a rather large majority in the Folketing, which simply says is a historical error.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113827	It's kind of funny for a Liberal Alliance member to say that, because does that mean that there is a large majority in favour of keeping top taxes, that in the Liberal Alliance you have to pack up your positions? No, of course it doesn't. You fight for what you think is fair and fair. And if you are in this country and can take an education, then you have shown that you can some things and also want some things in Denmark, and then I think it is fair and reasonable that you can also stay here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113852	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113855	It is, of course, fine to slip off on a question that is being asked, but this is serious. And I just miss the Radical Left reflection... why do you want to push the people one for the culture we have built up in Denmark, completely dangerous politics on? Why do we not recognise that it has come off course and come with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129113947	I do not think it is a barn gate in relation to Danish culture that, after 6 years, you can have permanent residence if you have shown that you can either get a job or take an education, have learned Danish and not committed serious crime. The position and positions of the SR government under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt were also significantly different from those of the 1980s and 1990s.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114008	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114013	As Mr. Søren Søndergaard said in his introductory and quite excellent speech that this is not about whether we should accept the strict immigration policy or not. We know that there is a disagreement with the government. This is about training and whether training should be part of the employment requirement for permanent residence or not. There, as others have said, SF believes that we have worked here in Denmark to encourage everyone to take up education and further training. This is what the whole development of Danish society since the Second World War has been all about, that is to say to train the entire population and we are therefore happy when people want to take an education. We are providing incentives for this, and it is not just a gift that society gives to those concerned, it is also an investment for society, because we agree that this is a prerequisite for the development of our society. That is why we think it is wrong and weird that we should like to remove the incentive for training to become part of the employment requirement, and that is why, as I said, we want it to be changed back again. That is why I very much hope that there is an interest in it, and that is why we can of course vote in favour of the motion for a resolution that we ourselves have helped to table.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114222	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114227	It is just because I have to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that there is a difference between whether you are a Dane and whether you are an immigrant or a refugee. After all, education is a good thing and I fully agree with that, and I think it is very good that there are more Danes who get the education they want and as much as possible. But will the rapporteur not recognise that Denmark cannot provide education for the whole world and then grant them permanent residence permits? Are there not different categories? Is it not necessary to recognise that globalisation has led to people coming to Denmark who take one gift and then perhaps want the next gift again, and is it not necessary to slow it down?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114316	Well, that's not what this is about, is it? Well, there are rules for SU rules and so on, which are also regularly discussed elsewhere. This is about some people living in Denmark who have lived here for several years and who at some point want a permanent residence permit, and then some requirements have been made for it. There you can discuss how many years you should have been here and how many years you should have worked etc. And then it is about the fact that in the past it has been the case that taking an education is part of that employment requirement. And we think it is quite wise that it should be included precisely because it encourages people to take an education. It's not like people from all over the world are coming right now to be educated because of this. It is people who are in Denmark and who want permanent residence permits. That is why we are saying that it is reasonable for them to be encouraged to take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114407	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114412	That's not sensible. And the rapporteur has to recognise that we are in a reality where, if we allow people to stay permanently in Denmark by being able to take education in Denmark, we will become a magnet. Surely we have to recognise that the world looks different than it did 100 years ago. We have to adapt to reality, and therefore we cannot make this kind of road for permanent residence permits. That's why this sharpening has come, and we in the Danish People's Party would love to see the law tightened further, so that we can categorize who can obtain permanent residence permits on the basis of an employment requirement. However, the rapporteur has to deal with reality and not just with dreams and thus recognise that there are different categories of people in this world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114513	Well, Lord Jemini, surely there is. Surely I have not refused to do so. No one refuses to do so. And there is no question of us training the whole world and just obtaining a residence permit by training. After all, there are a number of different requirements to be met. It is not the case that if we do this, people from all over the world can come and apply for Danish education and then get permanent residence permits. That's bullshit. This isn't how it works, is it? It is, of course, to what extent it can be included in this employment requirement for those who are currently in Denmark. That's what this is about. And there, as I said, we think it is sensible for education to be included because we actually believe that education is sensible for all people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114552	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114555	Thank you. I think it is a good principle to treat others as you wish to be treated. So let's try swapping the roles a little bit: let's assume that it was in Denmark that was war and that we fled from Denmark. There was quiet in Germany, but we chose to flee to France anyway; we went on into Spain and we came to Portugal. Then the Portuguese said: Welcome, you get asylum. Here is a residence, here is a tax-financed health care, here is an education system, and we help you to enter the labour market, and after 8 years, if you have worked for 31⁄2 years, you can get permanent residence. But if you choose to take a free, state-funded education at the University of Lisbon with the world's highest su, then it does not count in the employment requirement. The rapporteur for the SF would then think that it was an unreasonable one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114646	It depends, of course, on the situation of the Danish refugee, if I may say so. Whether it's unreasonable or not? In any case, I think it is sensible, even if I had to come to Portugal and Lisbon. It is a great city to come to, so I am happy to do so. In any case, I think it is an advantage that I could also have an incentive to take an education. Whether it would keep me from doing so or how I would react, I cannot answer, because the whole question is hypothetical, if I may say so. But I would just like to say that in any case, in all the circumstances that may exist, I think it is an advantage that there is an incentive to take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114726	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114729	I understand that this is an advantage, but what I am asking is: is it unreasonable? Because I think we should treat refugees just as we would like to be treated if we were refugees and fled to another rich society. So if we now arrived in Portugal and they met us with the existing legislation we have in Denmark, would the SF's rapporteur consider it unfair rules which tense the question of whether an education could be taken? Or would the SF's rapporteur think that it was actually reasonable rules that were met that, of course, you should work 31⁄2 years in Portugal before you were granted a permanent residence permit? I guess it's fair enough to try to discuss this way, because I sometimes think it's gonna be a little one-eyed discussion, and sometimes it can be healthy just to try to sit in the others' place. And if I were a fugitive and arrived in Denmark and received the welfare society that we provide and which I am glad we provide, then I would not think it was unreasonable rules that I was met with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114822	No, but it may be wrong to discuss it on the basis of whether it is unreasonable. I think it has to be said that this is stupid. That's where it is. Is it wise for refugees to be able to take an education like that? Then you can discuss whether it's fair or not. It is certainly true that good offers are being made here in Denmark to people who come from outside, including refugees. I'm all for that. But what we are just questioning here is whether it is particularly wise to leave out the training requirement as part of the employment requirement. We do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114908	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129114915	The starting point for many of the tightenings that have been since 2015 has been misintegration in the 1980s and 1990s and in the early 00s. I remember working as an interpreter in the 1990s. People were given a lot of gifts, and not many demands were made. Some became lazy, and it has moved on to the next generation among certain groups. Among certain groups, particularly women over 25, the majority are on transfer income or some form of early retirement or the like. I think that is bad, both for themselves and for their children, because they are culturally important. So in other words, we have quite a lot that is here physically, but as mentally is quite a different place therefore I think the many tightenings are in their place. Those who want Denmark, and there is also a part of them, we must embrace and be accommodating, but those who are stubborn, we must therefore make a lot of demands on. One of the most important things about getting a permanent residence permit is the labour market, because when you have a job, you get colleagues, you sit around the lunch table, you learn the language, you get a network, you learn a lot of things you can't read yourself to. That is why employment is an important focal point. In other words, being in employment does not prevent you from taking an education at the same time. I do not know examples of anyone who opts out of education because they want a permanent residence permit, in other words where obtaining a permanent residence permit takes precedence over obtaining an education. Not many people think about their place of residence every day when they are in work or in education. The main argument that we should maintain the rule that education does not count, I find in an article that was written in the letter A4 on 4 February 2018. The title: Training and jobs do not go hand in hand for women with other ethnic backgrounds. Women with a non-Western background are storming on the education front, but being in work is not going as well. It shows new numbers. That's what the experts say. Some of the women who have been trained and it is good to get an education, and many get it then choose to go home and care for their children and opt out of work. That is why, in my view, it is extremely important to maintain that employment is very, very fundamental. What goes on in the article is: Women with a non-Western background storm into higher education. But when it comes to being in work, they still lag behind. Traditional gender roles and family patterns mean that non-western women choose to go home more than Danish women do, explains experts. For this reason, I believe that we must stick to the fact that employment is the key issue. Education is important, and it can be taken, but we must maintain employment in relation to permanent residence permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115250	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115302	Thank you for the debate here today. I think, in many ways, that we have had a good debate. It is also a debate that has shown that there are very, very different approaches when it comes precisely to the area of foreigners and now here today the issue of permanent residence permits. As I said in my opening speech, the tightening up of the employment requirement is not an indication that foreigners should not be trained. That's what you've been trying to make it sound like today. It's not like that at all. It is an expression of the fact that the government, and indeed a broad majority here in the Folketing, considers that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits should be reserved for those who have made an active effort to integrate into Danish society. I think it is important that we insist that there should be high demands on foreigners coming to Denmark, including that they should have provided themselves for a longer period of time. Of course, you also have the opportunity to train, but then you also get your permanent residence permit a little later. I do not think there is anything wrong with that, since it is only right and proper that you should support yourself. You have to give something back to society. I guess it's that simple. It is a privilege to obtain a permanent residence permit in Denmark, and that is something to reach out for. That is our line, and I think that is quite clear from today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115455	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115458	Thank you for your reply. The minister says you have to give something back to society. I agree with that. That was also evident from my speech. What I just don't understand is that we can't agree that a carpenter's apprentice who meets at 9:00. 7:00 in the morning and gets off at 7:00. 3 in the afternoon and have received 8 hours' pay for 8 hours' work, that those hours should not be counted in the employment requirement. I simply do not understand that. It must be a mistake, and I would call for this to be changed so that all work is included in the employment requirement as long as it is not subsidised by state funds and all sorts of regular, regular work
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115539	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115543	Yes, but now it's an old discussion, you might say. We had it up last time. It is quite true that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democratic Party have discussed this before, but I still think that there is something right and proper to say that it should be quite normal regular work, and then, of course, it counts. Actually, I don't see any reason why we're changing the rules here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115610	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115612	I agree that this is an old discussion, but it is also a good discussion. The minister says it has to be ordinary, regular work. But what is not quite common and regular about the thousands of young people and adults who go to work perfectly normally, social and health assistants who are included in the standards at elderly centres, or bricklayer apprentices who are standing and bricklayers today while we are standing here talking? What is it that is not quite common and regular about it? Well, this has to be a mistake. And I think this is due to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration may not be fully familiar with vocational training. At least that's what I thought when we last discussed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115653	Yes, we know about vocational training, also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, but it is of course a question of whether as long as you are in some form of education, you have to wait to count it out. I mean, I just don't see any reason to change that, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115710	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115714	After all, the Minister is a minister, and that is why I thought that the Minister would be the right person to clarify the confusion created here about what is meant by temporary temporary nature in the case of refugees. Does this mean that the government takes the view that in future refugees should not be able to obtain permanent residence permits? And if that doesn't mean it, what are the rules for when to get it, i.e. after how many years to get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115749	As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is mixing up some things, because I have been listening a little to the debate. What is at stake is that 9 out of 10 refugees who have come to Denmark have stayed here, and we think that is actually a problem, for as Mr. Mads Birded, Mrs. Marie Krarup and also Mr. Henrik Dahl has mentioned that being a fugitive is something where you need protection for a time, and then you have to go home and build your homeland again. We have not been sufficiently determined in Denmark to make that clear to these people, and that is clear, and I think that too, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard knows that there are currently some discussions about this. Then there is the question of what rules apply. It is, of course, the case that there are contractual constraints on one's being able to seek citizenship at some point. We can then discuss whether or not there should be a permanent residence permit before citizenship, and we in the Left and the Government believe that there should be a permanent residence permit before citizenship, so it is a stepping stone model, one might say. But I would like to put it so simply that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can sit back with serenity, for these are not discussions, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is in any way involved in yet. He will probably only come to that when we may be discussing some legislation here in the Folketing. But it is true that we believe that temporary is temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115931	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129115934	Yes, but it illustrates very well how to cover up political disagreements by writing something that is so obviously not right. Temporaryness is not temporary for some of those who have signed it, while for others it is. I do not really know who it is, you think you can cheat on such a formulation, but it is an interesting discussion because it reflects where you want to go. I respect it if it is said that temporary nature is temporary, and the next step is citizenship, if it is a convention. But that's not what the government wants, and so it just seems completely unclear what the government wants on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120016	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120019	Now it was sir. Henrik Dahl, who mentioned it, and it is an interesting discussion which, like it does, goes on between the red parties. Often it's fun and exciting to discuss things that you really aren't part of, because then you might see things a little differently. But let me just make it clear that I do not know about the temporary nature of Mr. Søren Søndergaard was aware of that, but actually there is. And then it is that one can discuss in a way what should be in the time one is here and that one can eventually apply for citizenship. Moreover, no one has said that you will have citizenship, because you must also earn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120103	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120106	Well, well, this is interesting, because as I said, this sentence is somewhat attached to the proposal for adoption. What we then have to think about is that it should, like it, reflect the negotiations that are going on elsewhere, as the Minister says; it is over there in the Ministry of Finance. That is why I find it interesting to clarify. In other words, does that phrase reflect what is being discussed over there and which is expected to be reached over there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120137	I simply have to disappoint Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and say that I believe that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen must arm himself with a little bit of patience. However, I can say so much that there is no doubt, and I think that the opening debate also reflected the fact that there is a very, very strong focus, which I believe has been neglected for decades, on having those refugees who no longer have a need for protection sent home, so that they have to rebuild their country of origin, as people have always done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120210	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier... The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I think it's Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen). Yeah, now it's pressed in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120217	Thank you. Then we must almost understand the fact that we must expect a policy in which refugees must not be allowed to work or receive training so that they can have permanent residence. This must therefore be understood as the paradigm shift that the Danish People's Party has argued so much for, because refugees must not be qualified; they simply have to be thrown home as quickly as possible without being able, if I may say so, to do anything here in the Danish society either in the labour market or in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120259	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120302	Well, it could be that sir. Holger K. Nielsen was to set himself up as a political commentator. I would say that they have been wrong sometimes too. But let us all try to arm ourselves with a little bit of patience, and then I am quite sure that we will be discussing it, including here in the Chamber, after a good, solid bourgeois majority has reached a solution, hopefully within such a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120325	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120329	You get a little bit worried. But that's the way it is. But I would like to ask something, because the Minister has mentioned it a few times now that it is actually binding on the convention that we have to offer citizenship after some time. It is of course interesting, or it is from our perspective at least good that it exists. But I hear a little the minister say that it is perhaps something that one would wish was not bound to the convention, so that Denmark could become a member and now I make quotes free from allowing refugees to apply for citizenship. So I just have to understand it quite correctly: does the Minister think that if it were not tied up in the conventions, then it would be right that we did not have the option in Denmark that refugees could apply for citizenship at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120417	First of all, I believe that citizenship is something that should be earned. That, of course, is why we have made a great deal of progress on the requirements. Well, we've tightened the demands several times. And that is because we believe that it is a very serious matter and that it is something very special and a very great privilege to be able to call itself Dane. It's something you have to reach out for. Having said that, it is not, in fact, a discussion whether I or the government would wish it were not bound by the convention. It's bound to a convention. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120453	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120456	Yes, but when I ask about it, it is of course because I think it is interesting to hear whether the policy adopted by the Danish Government exists because we are bound by some conventions or whether it exists because of the political conviction that it is the right policy to pursue. There is, of course, a difference, and that is why I am trying to ask, and I would like to repeat my question: if we were not bound by the convention that we should offer to apply for citizenship, would the Minister think that we should not do so in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120526	For good reasons, I do not know how to discuss with the Alternative, but in the government and in the Left we are now discussing from the real world, that is to say the real reality in which we live. And it is the case that there are some conventions and we have said that we are not breaking conventions, but that we want to challenge conventions or go to the border, to the edge of conventions. We have done so several times. So I'm just dealing with what the world looks like, and there are some convention bindings in this field that you have to be able to apply for citizenship at a time that is not completely defined when is. But that must be done and, as I said, that is what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129120611	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday 14 December 2018. Then we'll have a call for a break till 8:00. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: F 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130002	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 4 December 2018. We need to justify this question, and that's Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, who is the rapporteur for the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130037	The reason for this is rather self-evident; perhaps we should explain why we have not taken that debate before about Saudi Arabia in particular. Saudi Arabia has for years been one of the worst Islamic dictatorships on the planet, one of the worst Islamic dictatorships on the planet. That doesn't say a word. They have supported terrorism, they have done all sorts of terrible things outside Saudi Arabia, but also in Saudi Arabia against their own people, and yet in some strange way they have been the pets of the West and allowed to do so. Just in the last year, we remember that there was the case of Canada, where Canada took the liberty of pointing out that there were perhaps some problems with human rights and the treatment of human rights activists in Saudi Arabia, after which Saudi Arabia knocked on Canada, which was allowed to stand a little alone. If that happens now, it's probably because of this Khashoggy case, where it's clear that you couldn't put a lid on anymore, you couldn't close your eyes anymore. It became clear to everyone that action had to be taken, especially because it had been correctly taken against other countries which carried out the murder of their own nationals abroad, and therefore, of course, we also had to take action against Saudi Arabia. But how should we intervene? And what will the relationship with Saudi Arabia be in the longer term? That is, of course, the big question, and that is why we have notified this question about how the government views it, how it reacted to events in Turkey and how it will relate to Saudi Arabia in the future, as long as the current regime continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130244	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. And then we need an answer, and it is from the Foreign Minister, who will then be given the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130254	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to discuss this question. Denmark has traditionally had good relations with Saudi Arabia. This applies both commercially and politically, including the fact that Saudi Arabia is a strategic ally in the fight against ISIL. Conversely, it is clear that Denmark and Saudi Arabia look very differently at many things and that it challenges our relationship. The human rights situation in the country has given particular cause for concern, and we have worked from the Danish side for a strengthened dialogue in that area, both bilaterally, with the European Union and in relevant international fora. However, the circumstances behind the killing of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi are so glaring that it adds a new dimension to our concern. Of course, the killing is totally unacceptable. Freedom of speech, a free press and security for journalists are key Danish values, and threats, violence and killing of journalists put our values under pressure. To put it mildly, the changing Saudi explanations about the situation have not been beneficial to Saudi Arabia's credibility in the matter. The case is still under investigation and the Saudi State Prosecutor has currently accused 21 persons in the case, five of whom are tried with death. Of course, the use of the death penalty is also quite unacceptable in any case. It also stated a united European Union in a Joint Declaration on 17 November 2018, in which the European Union also insisted on a credible and in-depth investigation and that all those involved are held to account. In addition, it also stressed the importance of a fair trial for the accused. When you combine the Khashoggi case with Saudi Arabia's continued involvement in the Yemeni conflict, we have considered by the government that it was necessary to take very clear steps against Saudi Arabia, both bilaterally and under the auspices of the European Union, in order to send a clear signal. First of all, both the Prime Minister and I have expressed the position of the Danish Government through a number of public statements. Denmark has also raised the matter in Riyadh and convened the Saudi Ambassador in Copenhagen for a discussion on the matter in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here the government condemned the killing and stressed the need for a credible in-depth investigation. In addition, Denmark did not participate in the large-scale investment conference Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh, and Denmark has also taken up the killing of Khashoggi in the UN Human Rights Council on 5 November 2018. Furthermore, the killing of Khashoggi, along with the continuing worsening situation in Yemen, where Saudi Arabia is responsible for most of the air attacks carried out by the coalition, has created an increased focus among EU countries on a tighter policy in relation to arms exports to Saudi Arabia. However, there is no immediate prospect of an EU agreement in this area, and that is why I decided last week that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will suspend authorisations for exports of arms, military equipment and dual use products which can be used to violate human rights. Denmark also fully supports the German entry ban for 18 Saudi people because of their involvement in the assassination of Khashoggi. This will also apply in Denmark. So from the government's point of view, we have already taken a large number of steps which clearly signal where we stand in this matter. The seriousness of the Khashoggi case has been required. In the future, the government will continue to work for EU unity to maintain pressure on the Saudi authorities, both in relation to Yemen and the Khashoggi case. An overall EU approach is also the most effective way to work for progress in the area of human rights in general, just as it is through the European Union that we must try to influence the internal reform processes in Saudi Arabia in the right direction. So let me sum up: the government has, bilaterally in words and actions, strongly opposed the killing of Khashoggi, but, more importantly, we in the European Union have worked for consensus on putting pressure on Saudi Arabia. Because it is only when we stand together that we can hope to make a difference. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130748	Thank you to the Secretary of State. And then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, who gets to start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129130803	Thank you to the Foreign Minister for his reply, and I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government for the line that has been taken here recently in relation to Saudi Arabia. I'd like to sign for that. But one of the reasons why we have called this question debate is that it took a very long time for the government to find its own legs. It was a really long time. Well, the case itself starts on October 2, when Khashoggi disappears. You don't know what happened. On 3 October everyone is aware that there is at least something completely wrong, and there are not really any reactions from the Danish Government, no expressions of concern, no representations to Saudi Arabia to get them to tell us what has happened. That is why, on 15 October, 13 days later, I asked the Foreign Minister how the government had reacted to the disappearance of the Saudi journalist until that time. And now you answer under ministerial responsibility, so I assume that what is in the answer is correct. And the only concrete thing is that on 24 October and 23 and 25 October various things have been done with Saudi Arabia. And it's brilliant, but it's a very long time after it's happened. Having studied it more thoroughly, I can see that the Minister has actually expressed concern; already a few days after I asked what had happened. It happened in an article on Dr.dk, where it is presented in this way: The truth of what has happened to the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi is going for one day. That's what the Secretary of State said on the 17th day of the journalist's disappearance. And it was in a written message to Dr.dk. So, to be perfectly honest, we did not think at the time that the Danish Government took this situation with the necessary seriousness. It was far too much passivity, too vague a speech in relation to the fact that Saudi Arabia had an explanation problem, and at that time all pressure should immediately have been put on Saudi Arabia, including on the official Danish side, to make them explain how things were connected. For the Minister says that the Khashoggi case was, I do not know, whether the minister used the formulation drop that caused the cup to flow over. Well, that was where it was like: now something had to happen. And I understand that, too. However, as I briefly indicated in my introduction to today's question debate, there is nothing new about repression in Saudi Arabia. Well, it wasn't something that started with a reporter who disappeared. The problem is that that repression has been in Saudi Arabia for many, many years. Saudi Arabia is one of the most oppressive regimes in the world. Opposition is being pursued inside and outside the country. Virtually all human rights that can be mentioned are violated, and freedom of expression is at its core. Saudi Arabia is among the lowest in the index made over the possibilities of freedom of expression. Half the population is systematically discriminated against, i.e. the half, which consists of the female part of the Saudi population. There is systematic discrimination against them. You have medieval punishments, whip strikes for saying something wrong about the Prophet, and what do I know about completely medieval conditions and then, of course, executions, which you can also do more sophisticatedly. They take place in public and even occasionally right next to the places where Danish royal and Danish ministers meet with the leaders from Saudi Arabia. Then you could say, "Oh, yeah, okay, that's Saudi Arabia." Yes, but it is also international where we have seen support for terrorism and for religious extremism. Well, Saudi Arabia is known for its direct support for religious extremism. And then, above all, there is the recent war in Yemen, where it is a war between Iran and Saudi Arabia on Yemeni grounds and no one should be defended in relation to the other countries and where Saudi Arabia has also committed serious war crimes, among others. completely ruthless bombing of civilians. And after all this has happened, we think that maybe one or two days might have been pretty clear in the spit about Khashoggis disappearing. But you also have to discuss how this might be happening. We reject the need for a choice between Saudi Arabia and Iran. We will not accept that choice. We cannot defend Saudi medievalism because Iran is next door. Both regimes must be criticised. Moreover, we cannot allow our exports to be relatively modest exports to Saudi Arabia to block our opinion. Because if we do that, that means pawning our freedom of expression with some dictators and oppressors. I have nothing against the fact that Danish business will invest in some cooling discs in Saudi Arabia, and they should be welcome to do so. But they should also know that it does not prevent Danish politicians from clearly saying what they want to say. And if Saudi Arabia then takes the consequence that they are throwing out Danish companies, then that must be the consequence. What else is the alternative? That freedom of expression is pawned with Islamist dictators. So our conclusion is that unfortunately there is a long record of sins. We have to take the spoon in the other hand. We hope that what the government has done and which we welcome is a good start and we hope that in this debate we will be able to discuss other steps that can be taken and that a united Parliament will hopefully be able to proceed with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131421	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131430	Thank you. And thanks to the authors for focusing on how the Saudi regime acts, both in the light of the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, but also in general. You can say that if you have any doubts about whether Mr. Søren Søndergaard is right about what he says, of course, you can read the Amnesty International reports on Saudi Arabia, where it is documented that the country is using public executions, torture, rape of prisoners, persecution of religious minorities, trafficking in human beings and discrimination against women. It is also publicly known that Saudi Arabia supports terrorists around the world, among others. in Syria, where they support some of the most Islamist rebel groups, funding Koran schools and mosques in many Western countries, even the most conservative of the kind. And at the moment we know that Saudi Arabia is behind the killing of the civilian population in Yemen, which has developed into one of the greatest humanitarian disasters. It has perhaps been a bit surprising to see how much the killing of the journalist is taking place in the media, while there is very little focus on Saudi Arabia's many other crimes around the world and also in their own country. For us, it is not only about the murder of the journalist, but it is also important that we all realise that Saudi Arabia is violating human rights and that it is time to act on it. Hopefully this will be the starting point for us in the West to put pressure on the Saudi regime through the United Nations and the European Union. The Social Democratic Party hopes that the government will join in this. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the reaction of the Danish Government to the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggis at the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul, calling on the Danish Parliament to call on the government to take V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131647	Thank you. One moment, there is a brief comment. The read-out proposal for adoption is, of course, now part of the negotiations. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, who has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131658	Thanks for the speech. And thank you for listing the Saudi register of sins, which I find exhaustive when I put it together with Mr. Søren Søndergaard's review of the register of sins. My question is not about the Saudi register of sins on which we probably agree relatively. It's about Saudi Arabia as a strategic ally. Is it my understanding that the rapporteur's speech is such that any government led by a socialist government will disband the strategic alliance that Denmark currently has with Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131738	No, the rapporteur should not. It is true that the Foreign Minister says that Saudi Arabia has been an ally in the fight against the Islamic State. At the same time, it is also true that Saudi Arabia supports other Islamist movements and that it is important for us to put pressure on them. In fact, I do not think there are two opinions about the Saudi regime; I do not see any disagreement. It is clear that they can be strategic in some areas, but that is why it is still important to push Saudi Arabia even more than we may be doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131800	And with that we say thank you to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129131809	Thank you. The case of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi is just as absurd as it is a macabre, and so the matter goes well beyond what we have seen from Saudi Arabia for decades: deeply involved in a bloody substitute war in Yemen, a view of women that belongs in a distant past, an infinite number of violations of citizens' fundamental freedoms and a barbaric legal system based on Sharia law. And speaking of Sharia law: I can inform you that the organisation Muslim World League is based in Saudi Arabia. Muslim World League is a propaganda machine that works to spread hardcore Islamism in both the Middle East and Europe. The organisation is a service organisation for Muslims supporting Saudi Arabia's policy, and one of these services is certification of halal slaughter, for example in Denmark. Danish slaughterhouses therefore account for an unknown million dollars in an organisation that is actually part of the regime that we are condemning today in this Chamber. I find that thought-provoking. Anyway, back to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia's inner conditions are not unknown to the outside world, but I understand that there were great hopes for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who is considered to be the real leader of the authoritarian kingdom. In his reform plan, Vision 2013, he has introduced a so-called more moderate form of Islam, and recently Saudi Arabia has therefore developed completely where women can now drive and they can attend football matches, and they can go to the cinema if they have the necessary permissions from their guardian. In view of these quantum leaps in the view of women, Saudi Arabia was elected a member of the United Nations Women's Commission last year, and it is unfortunate, to put it mildly, that the United Nations is thereby further legitimising the country. I really believe that this is an insult to the United Nations system. And to return to the Jamal Khashoggi case, in addition to the terrible violation that a homicide itself is, it is also an insult to international diplomatic rules. As I understand it, Khashoggis' executioners used diplomatic passports on their journeys to and from the scene, which is a violation of the Vienna Convention, etc., so there are only good reasons why Denmark expresses its deepest disapproval of Saudi Arabia's positions and actions. On behalf of the government and with the support of the Danish People's Party, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses its deep concern about the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Parliament stresses the need for a credible and in-depth investigation into the killing and calls on Saudi Arabia to ensure that all involved are held accountable. The Danish Parliament also supports the suspension by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of authorisations for exports to Saudi Arabia of weapons, military equipment and dual-use products which may be used for human rights violations. Parliament calls on the government to continue to work through the EU and the UN to improve the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. V 22). On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should also like to call on the government to take the initiative for a sanction consisting of an entry ban in Denmark for persons who can be associated with the assassination of Khashoggi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132126	Thank you. The read-out proposal will be included in the negotiations from now on. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132131	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I broadly agreed with throughout. I am all the more surprised that the proposal for adoption, which the Danish People's Party has agreed to, does not mention Yemen at all. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen mentioned it himself. Yemen is, after all, a key point at the moment. On top of that, Saudi Arabia's close ally, the United States of America, has launched a process that could lead to a vote to stop arms supplies in relation to the war in Yemen. Would it not be appropriate for us, on a day like this and from a place like this, to draw attention to the war in Yemen in a motion for a resolution? Or could it perhaps not be agreed between the Danish People's Party and the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132239	There has been no disagreement on the Yemen issue, I would say. However, on the basis of an overall assessment, we in the Danish People's Party decided that the issue of the situation in Yemen may actually belong in a discussion for itself. And that is why we can support the government's draft.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132258	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132311	I would just like to say that it is a little strange to come to the conclusion when we are discussing Saudi Arabia that one of the most important issues that is at all in the case of Saudi Arabia does not belong in this discussion. How incredibly criminal and bestially and sad it was with the poor Khashoggy, however, only one person compared to the many, many, is being mass-bombed in Yemen by the Saudi regime. That is why I do not understand why we are not going to take this opportunity here today to distance ourselves from what Saudi Arabia is doing in Yemen. The fact that the Danish People's Party says that there has been no disagreement with the government about this does not make things any better. For that means that it has not been important for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132408	I have only contempt and disdain for what is going on in Yemen. However, we have considered it to be part of a discussion for itself. Closer, actually, I don't think I can make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132419	With that we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I would point out that the last part, which was read on behalf of the Danish People's Party, is not included in the text. Then it's the next one, and that's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132435	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Enhedslisten for taking such a debate on Saudi Arabia. We very much welcome this from the Left. After all, it is no secret that the murder of Khashoggi has been an eye-opener to the fact that it is an extremely bestialous regime, which we apparently thought we could set the limit even higher in terms of how bad they were. Of course, we must also stand by and watch that, if you go in and kill journalists, there is a universal right that the world must guard. That is why I am also pleased that the government has taken this matter very seriously from the outset. The Danish side has asked for everything to be thoroughly examined. The Danish side also has a strong desire that no one should get away with this. At the same time, the export of military equipment and similar equipment to Saudi Arabia has been stopped at the latest. So I think we can actually say that if anyone from Denmark has done what we can. Then it is no secret that we still have people running around in Saudi Arabia with impunity. And that is where we must particularly press Saudi Arabia's closest ally, the United States, and hope that something will be done. And that's where I have, just like sir. Søren Søndergaard mentioned earlier, followed very closely what is going on, among other things. in the United States Senate, where I think it is very positive that we have senators who are pushing the Trump administration to ensure that this should not just slip into the background, and we have to put our trust in that. For once in a while, we also have to recognise that we in small Denmark can do a lot, but we cannot do it all in relation to a country like Saudi Arabia. So I would at least like to put on the agenda from the Left that, in relation to what the government has done, we support it 100%. We think that this is the right step to take in that we have a value-based, proactive foreign policy, which also has some ideals and values that we are guarding. And we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132649	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132653	Again, I can only agree with virtually everything the rapporteur of the Left said. Well, it was almost so good, so I had hoped that it had been government policy from day one. But allow me to ask: does this mean that if there is again a Canada case in which a country objects to human rights violations and abuses of human rights activists in Saudi Arabia and where a single country, like being hanged out and attacked, then Denmark will not leave that country hanging to dry alone in the future? Does this mean that Denmark will immediately, publicly, unequivocally go out and back up that country and support that country, for example. Canada, instead of using only the quiet diplomacy that has made it clear that at least there has been no public support for Canada and that Canada felt fairly much hung out? So just a brief question about what happened to Yemen: is it also the Left's reason that there is nothing about Yemen in this statement that it is in another forum? If so, in what forum should this be addressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132802	First of all, as far as Canada is concerned, we have not hung any countries to dry. Canada didn't ask for our help. If Canada had asked for our help, I am sure that it would have been taken very, very seriously and it would have been followed up. But Canada, I think, had an interest in trying to solve this in a quiet diplomatic way, meaning that it could have been counterproductive directly if you had started from all sorts of different countries to say: Hello, here I am, and here is our position, etc. etc. Of course, if any of our allies, including Canada, ask for our help, we must take it seriously, but they did not. In relation to Yemen, I would say that I think the Yemeni conflict is quite awful, but no one, so to speak, is better than anyone else. We have Iran, which is at least as bad as Saudi Arabia in Yemen. So if we are going to make some kind of adoption about Yemen and have a debate, then I think there should be a focus on both countries, but then I am also very ready for a debate. That is why I do not think they should be included in this vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132900	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129132904	Now, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen may have some information that I do not have, and I can only base myself on public sources. I cannot base myself on what depeche may have gone from the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it has been written that it did not want support. I can only note what has been said publicly in Canada, and there is something else that has been said. Well, there's been that one with that feeling that you were standing alone. But in reality, I don't think it matters. Because I do not think that we can allow Saudi Arabia's behaviour around the world for those whom they so happen to choose to take it out on, to be an issue that is up to them to address or not. I think we need to learn from the Khashoggi case that we have to take it up every time and that we have to say it off every time, also in public. The reason this is a lesson is that if it had happened in the Canada case, we might have avoided the Khashoggy case. If there had been a clear and clear rejection of the international community, it might have sent a signal that would make them think: okay, we need to be careful. That signal didn't come, and the rest is history.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133015	I specifically said that Canada had not asked for our help, and I stand by that one hundred percent. I have no knowledge of what has been discussed in Canada since then, because I simply do not know about this. In relation to whether this could have stopped the Khashoggi case or not, I would say that I simply do not believe that. With the newspaper writings that have been in, among other things. The New York Times and the Washington Post, about this family feud, which apparently also takes place inside the royal family, I'm afraid this is going really, really deep.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133045	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133050	It is quite clear, at any rate, that the Canadians had hoped for help from the United States and that they had also approached the United States and were deeply, deeply disappointed that they did not receive that help. So the fact that they didn't want help from anywhere else, I don't think that's right. But that's what it is. In any case, it was disappointing that no one else went in and in that situation actually supported the Canadians. As far as the Yemeni war is concerned, I think it is a fundamentally wrong analysis that it is a substitute war between Iran and Saudi Arabia and a fundamentally wrong analysis. And if you have it as a starting point, I think you come up with quite wrong conclusions. These are quite other things that have played in there, and it is beyond doubt that it is the Saudis who have played by far the dirtiest game in the civil war that is in Yemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133153	This is not something I invent, so to speak, that it is a substitute war in Yemen. I believe that this is supported by a large number of international experts and also by a large number of international newspapers. So I am now on target for that. And I think there's a good point in that, too. We know that Iran entered Yemen, tried to take control, and then the international coalition led by Saudi Arabia had to go in and try to strike some balance. Does that mean I thought it was okay? with the way they led their way from the Saudi side? No, of course not, and I have said this repeatedly, both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. And that is why, of course, we must also address the challenges that exist. But as I said, I just think it's wrong to blame only one place and then we can always discuss whether it's 60, 70 or how many percent it's now that's worst on one side or the other. We need to have a long discussion about that, and I am ready for that. But I just do not see what this has to do with a single focus on Saudi Arabia, because we should not forget Iran's role.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133254	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl in the rapporteur's series. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133308	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for raising this question and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. I and we in the Liberal Alliance are following the development of Denmark's relationship as closely as I believe everyone else in this room is. Saudi Arabia, as has already been said, is one of several Western allies in the Middle East, which can be called ambiguous and problematic without exaggeration. A register of sins has been read by Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, whom I can try to add together to a combined register of sins and say that it seems to me to be completely comprehensive. We and I have no objection to this. And yet, of course, there is this ambiguous issue, which also applies to several other allies that we have in the region and which, of course, is, yes, a very complicated issue. However, the developments that have taken place in the Khashoggi case are very worrying, and it creates a new situation. For the way in which we behave violates so many principles that we have not, after all, broken with in the past, as far as I know. But it is also only as far as I am aware, and therefore I think there is every reason to try to get an overall view of exactly what has happened. A lot of different explanations have been given on the Saudi side and there is a need for a credible investigation of the process. This does not mean that we cannot agree very quickly that the killing of Khashoggi is something that we must take away from the alleral plagues. This is contrary to a large number of things which have already been mentioned, but which I would like to repeat, namely the security of journalists, freedom of expression, free press, and then it is also contrary to everything that has to do with international law and the right to do, to send a death squad into another country. It would have if they had served with diplomatic passports, it would have done so without diplomatic passports. So here it is important that Denmark, both nationally and in a European context, puts great pressure on Saudi Arabia and insists on a credible investigation of the matter. There we in the Liberal Alliance wholeheartedly support the line taken by the government in condemning the killings and other statements and also the steps taken at European level. That is why, of course, we also believe that the government is doing what can be expected of a good government when it comes to putting the necessary pressure on Saudi Arabia. And not surprisingly, of course, we support the text that has already been read. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133639	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. I just wanted to make a brief comment, and I'm sorry. It was sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133655	There was no brief comment, there was a brief comment. Fourth Vice-President (Leif Mikkelsen) Very late, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go. ) There must be something wrong with the wiring system. I'm just gonna ask sir. Henrik Dahl on one thing, namely about Mr. Henrik Dahl shares the view that Danish companies that invest their money fully legally and fully in order in subdued dictatorships must live with the risk that Danish elected representatives and Danish governments criticise the vile dictatorship with the result that the vile dictatorship throws the people out of the country and will not trade with them. Is Mr. Henrik Dahl agrees with me on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133731	I simply do not think we can give a general answer to that question. For there are very few countries in the world that have such a triple A rating, compared to everything going to correctly. We also have economic activities in China, and we have in various countries in Africa. We have economic activities in a number of different countries, and those countries are so different, so I would not want to stand by and give a general explanation of the risks that you have to accept when you are in different more or less problematic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133808	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133812	That's funny, sir. Henrik Dahl just mentioned China, according to the current Tibet Investigation Commission, right? For that was an example of the attack on the Danish constitution in order to please a dictatorship, because you had some good orders. The Danish constitution was trampled underfoot to please a dictatorship. There is just what I am saying: we have to do what we can in order not to get into that situation. And that is why I think it would be very good if the Folketing together sent a clear signal to Danish companies, which are called: When it is not illegal to invest in a country, of course you have your full freedom to do so and earn all the money you can on it. But I want you to know that this does not cause us to refrain from criticising human rights violations, even if it can have as a consequence that the regime in question is throwing you out. And there are not so many of them after all, that is to say, throwing out companies because of a criticism from a Danish government. But there are some, and we shall not bow to them. Don't we agree on that? Would it not be good to have such a common signal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133912	We agree, of course, that the Constitution must be guarded by all of us. There should be no doubt about that for a second. I just still think it's hard to say anything in general. I mean, we've had a very frozen relationship with India for a long time, and that's how we've been discussing how to get out of it. Something's gonna happen now, I don't know. However, I think that the countries with which we are dealing are simply so different that the distribution of risk and how to behave as a government is difficult to put on a formula.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129133950	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134001	Thank you. You must bear with me: I have done all I can to understand the details here, but I am a maternity nurse in this area right now. There is no doubt about this, and I can also hear from the debate that we fully agree that the assassination of Khashoggi is appalling and scary and, moreover, can be compared entirely, we believe, with the attempt to assassinate exilans here in Denmark. That is why we have studied the proposals for adoption, but we have not quite found ourselves in any of them yet. In this way, I fully agree with the line that the questioners are also putting. But I think this is such a serious matter and such an extraordinary situation that we should be able to get together across the Folketing. I think that, in relation to the government and the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption, it is not clear enough that there is a need for an independent investigation, an independent investigation and, indeed, preferably under the auspices of the United Nations, which is what the questioners are calling for. On the other hand, I think that there are many things in the same proposal for adoption by the questioners, for which other countries also have a terrible responsibility, such as the United Kingdom. Iran vis-à-vis Yemen. That does not mean, of course, that Saudi Arabia does not have it. So from this point of view, we have it at present that we hope that we can get together on something. I don't know if that's completely out of the question yet. I think the line is clear: it must be absolutely clear that it is totally unacceptable and we must be able to put maximum pressure on Saudi Arabia to cooperate not only in an investigation but in an independent external investigation. That cannot in any way be their own contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134237	Thank you. And then, sir... Søren Søndergaard arrived in time this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134243	Thank you. I am not going to ask any close questions at all, but only at the request of Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, because she herself brought it up about the process, just mention that from our side we have sent our draft opinion to all rapporteurs and invited for a discussion. We can then understand that the government has negotiated with some parties a statement that we have never seen. It has never been sent to us, we have never received it, we have not been involved in anything. And it's hard to make a compromise if you don't sit at the same table. But it is then a choice that the government has made, that is, that there should be two statements, because they have always been aware of our opinion, because we have sent it to them for information. We think that's good style.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134326	I think so too, and thank you for that information, so that it is also included in the debate. And this also calls for an effort to be made to find the joint compromise, because I think that would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134346	Thank you. Yes, there is another brief comment. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134349	Thank you. Now the rapporteur spends a great deal of time criticizing, one might say, the choice of words put forward in the government and the Danish People's Party's proposals for adopting a study of what has actually happened. I must confess, therefore, that I find it difficult to see exactly what the rapporteur thinks. For, on the one hand, we are being asked to work for an independent international inquiry into the whole matter, and what we are then presenting is that we stress the need for a credible and thorough investigation. Excuse me, but isn't this an academic discussion about where the difference is between the two types of investigation? I cannot see it, but maybe I can get it further from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134437	I don't think it's academic. I believe that this is about specific foreign policy language, which has different purposes. I believe that the rapporteur is fully aware of this and, if so, there is no problem that the government can change it into an independent and impartial investigation under the auspices of the United Nations, because then we could already get closer there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134505	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134509	We were also mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, so a little service information and perhaps a comment at the end. That is right, and we also acknowledge that a text of adoption was sent out. Our procedure was slightly delayed by the fact that it was headed F 12, which is also being dealt with today, we have discussed it, but at least it slowed down my proceedings for an hour or two. If we have not gone ahead with what was originally sent forward, it was on the assumption that it would probably be difficult to negotiate the whole debate on Yemen out of the text of the adoption. It is not the case that we do not want to discuss Yemen, but we simply want to discuss the issue that has been raised and not go into detail and discuss all sorts of other issues. And since I was not confident that I could negotiate the Yemeni discussion out, I thought that we should try something that answered the question and not everything else. I should like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134609	Thank you for the information that I do not have all the references to either, because I am sure that this group of rapporteurs has had a lot of debates on precisely those issues in which I have not participated. I think I'll add something to that. I would also much rather restrict and we could then agree. Not because Yemen is not quite incredibly problematic, but it could then be a call to the other side that we might come together for a stronger text, which was only about Khashoggy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134643	We are therefore grateful to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And then it's sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129134657	Much has been said about Saudi Arabia and the Saudi regime, and everyone agrees that it is a terrible regime that sits in Riyadh and that we must distance ourselves from it. That is also what we are discussing here today, and the question is how strong we must do it, how significant we must do it. However, I am glad that the Folketing agrees that we must distance ourselves clearly from the Saudi regime. In my opinion, it is also necessary to have as a precondition for all of this that the war in Yemen is not a war between Sunnis and Shias. It is a civil war against the background of old national contradictions that have been in Yemen for many, many years, which have then been intensified after the Houthi were given greater military power, if I may say so. But in any case, it is the Saudis who have the main responsibility for the atrocities that are taking place there. What I would also like to say a little about is something that Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned when he, very relevant in fact, asked whether Saudi Arabia should be a strategic ally for us. Whether they are for us in Denmark, I do not know if I have heard the wording as clearly as was said by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Henrik Dahl. At least they are for the United States, that is quite obvious, and that is why Donald Trump doesn't give a shit what the Saudis do. He accepts anything, because partly he can sell weapons to them, partly they are a strategic ally, and that is what it is. But here, too, one has to ask oneself: is it wise for the West to put all its eggs in the Saudi basket? Is it especially wise to do so? That is what Trump, in particular, has done, if I may say so, in relation to the conflicts in the Middle East, where the conflict between Shias and Sunnis, Iran and Saudi Arabia, is one of the central conflicts. I mean, it does not only have something to do with Yemen, but it is the central conflict in the whole Middle East. And there I think it's a little strange that where Iran is considered to be, frankly, a son of a bitch and the devilhood here on Earth... Naser Khader nods, and it's Iran, I totally agree. Saudi Arabia is the same. That is why it is strange that, like the West, we say, if I may say so, that Iran is simply devilish, whereas Saudi Arabia is a strategic ally that can do anything. Is that wise? Is it a wise and balanced policy on the part of the West when you know what it will have to do with Saudi behavior? Saudi Arabia entered Qatar or punished Qatar, and that is something we must also bring here. They're punishing everyone they don't like. This so-called progressive crown prince, who has arrived, is very active if anyone comes across him a little. It marked Canada, and Qatar felt it too, and he does so under the guise of the Americans supporting him. And that means getting a country that, if I may say so, behaves extremely bullyly throughout the region, and that the country believes it can do what it wants, because it has the United States in particular, but perhaps also Denmark's I do not know that unreserved support to do these things. One thing is that we criticise human rights in Saudi Arabia. I think we should certainly do so, and we all agree that we should do so, and we must continue to do so. But there must also be some consequences when it comes to considering Saudi Arabia as a strategic ally. Do we not also have to adapt our foreign policy to the fact that it may not be so wise to make the Saudis the strategic ally for us in that area, precisely because it means that we have far, far less control over what the Saudis can come up with? And the consequences of this have indeed been seen in Qatar, the Canadian Foreign Minister has done so, in Yemen it has done so, and it continues to do so. So I think that is one of the fundamental issues we need to discuss about Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135149	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135153	Thank you. I always really appreciate sir. Holger K. Nielsen's assessments, and therefore there is no controversy or anything like that involved when I say that what I was referring to with strategic allies is very ambiguous, and which was the word I used, it is not only in the region; it is not only Saudi Arabia. After all, the Western world is also an ally with Pakistan, and we ourselves are allies with Turkey through NATO. So the Western world is part of some rather ambiguous alliances which, without any certainty, have been sustained by the fact that the alternative is probably much worse. But that is where the ambiguity comes in. And I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this ambiguity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135240	What's this about? Is this about human rights? Yeah, that's right, isn't it? If you take Pakistan, then the central conflict for Pakistan is in relation to India, and I am well aware that we have not taken a position on Pakistan and on India. On the contrary, the West has very often done the opposite. We have condoned the fact that India has atomic weapons, and they have been given various nuclear materials, etc. So I don't think you can say that. I really believe that Trump, in his policy, leans one hundred percent against Saudi Arabia. One of the first people he visited was Saudi Arabia. He was received with pomp and splendor, and he just had to demonstrate demonstratively that it is the American nuclear ally in the Middle East. And then you can imagine a connection between it and the Israeli Government to something that happens there. That might make it run cold down my back, anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135352	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135355	Now it is not going to be a long discussion that goes side by side with what has actually been asked, but I just have to say that the ambiguous nature of Pakistan, for example. It has also been suggested in the American media that it is therefore a country where Osama bin Laden was able to live safely for many years. So, in this way, I think it is a rather ambiguous country with which we are ally in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135422	Well, it certainly is. It is therefore ambiguous in every respect, but it is not that. Well, I mean, when you do foreign policy like that at the level we are talking about here, it's not too delicate souls, if I may say so, is it? That is extremely ambiguous, and the whole thing about Afghanistan, etc. Comes in there, too. But what I am saying is that what has happened to Saudi Arabia is just an unambiguous choice We have not chosen Pakistan in relation to, for example. India or compared to others. We have chosen Saudi Arabia in relation to Iran. I do not think that is wise without saying, for that reason, that the Iranian regime is something that I support. I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135509	With that, we thank Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Next in line, sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129135518	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for the question debate on Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is a very, very important country in the Middle East. It is a leading country, especially in relation to the Sunni Muslim world. It is a country where there are some important shrines, and therefore there is much, much focus on the country in addition to the oil money. It is a country that I have previously called the world's largest racist country. It has treated half of its citizens, women, as subhumans. There is no freedom of religion. You can't build churches or carry crosses into the country. There is no respect for religious minorities. I have been one of the greatest critics of Saudi Arabia and have been constantly hoping that there would be a Gorbachev who would change Saudi Arabia for the better openness, reform and so on. So when the new crown prince showed up, he actually said the right things. It was fine to say that Islam must be reformed and that now we must stop the race with Iran to be the most extreme. Because that's what happened after 1979. He said that jihadism is something that must be fought. The women should be allowed to drive. He said a lot of good things. At first I was very sceptical about him, because one thing is to say something, something else is to implement it. That was among other things. the reason why we went down to Saudi Arabia at some point to hear it from the horse's own mouth, i.e. whether he means it by reform. So he actually said the right things. That's why I gave him a chance. I think it is important that there should be some reforms, that there should be openness in Saudi Arabia, because, as I said, this is a very, very important country. But he also began to do things that went in the opposite direction of freedom. On the one hand, women were allowed to drive, exercise, enter the stadiums, but on the other hand, freedom of speech fighters were imprisoned, the blogger Badawi and his sister and others. And what is happening in Yemen is also deeply, deeply problematic. Saudi Arabia has a share of responsibility. So have the Emirates, but so has Iran. It is a battle between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Nor can it be avoided that it is a battle between Shiai Islam and Sunni Islam, especially after the Houthi began to confess to the 12th form of Shiai Islam here recently. That must also be taken into account. The terrible thing happened to the very talented journalist Khashoggi in Istanbul. At first I was skeptical because the main source was Erdogan, and he is not so trustworthy either. It is certainly not someone who has respected the freedom of the press. So rushing up and starting to fight for the freedom of the press was a little hypocritical, I think. But he has his agenda. He is in the process of rivalry with Saudi Arabia to be the most prominent Sunni Muslim country. But there is much evidence that the Saudis have acknowledged that Khashoggi has been killed in the consulate, there is no doubt about that, but whoever has ordered it, we still do not know away. There's a lot of evidence that it's the Crown Prince. That is why I think it is appropriate for us to respond, and I think it is good that the government and the Foreign Minister have said that we are now stopping arms sales to Saudi Arabia and following Germany. I would really like to see more countries involved in this, but here we also see the hypocrisy of the other European countries, not least France, which has a lot of arms sales to Saudi Arabia. I think it is fine to condemn what has happened. I think it's fine to stop the arms sales. I still hope that we can make Saudi Arabia turn in the right direction, because it is an important country, including for the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140007	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140011	I fully agree with Mr. Does Khader think that it is a completely ironic and absurd byproduct of this entire crime that Erdogan has succeeded in acting as a defender of freedom of speech while people are in prison for dozens or more than a hundred, right? So it's relatively absurd. What I would like to ask Naser Khader is: We do not know by whom in Saudi Arabia and at what level this decision has been made I do not know at least, nor do I know what various intrigues there are which make it possible to harm some other people but are Mr. Naser Khader agrees that if it turns out that it is not the Crown Prince who has dealt with this, but that it is people who have wanted to harm him, then the best way to actually support the course of reform that Mr. Does Mr Khader refer to a clear and unequivocal condemnation and follow-up in the form of action by the world community?
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140111	I simply cannot believe that the man who received so much support and began to change the world's perception of Saudi Arabia and who began to give Saudi Arabia a chance with reforms will put all this at risk because of a journalist. Why don't you let the reporter write what he wants? It's not something that's going to hurt anything in the big picture. I can't believe you can put this whole thing at risk because of a reporter. We do not know for sure whether it is the Crown Prince who has given the order or whether it is others, but what we know for sure is that there are many power bases in Saudi Arabia. And there are power bases in Saudi Arabia that have tried to tighten up those reforms. There are also those who have tried to tighten up the better relationship that has been created for Israel. There are some who have tried to set foot for the new alliance between Israel, the United States and Saudi Arabia against Iran. But we don't know that. It would be appropriate also if the Crown Prince is sure that he has nothing to do with it that one is even clearer and clearer about what has happened, rather than that we should always be told little by little by Erdogan. And by the way, if Erdogan and his people have been keeping the consulate under surveillance for a long time, why didn't they stop the killing? It can't be right that they only start recording when he was killed. Why not stop it earlier? So there are a lot of questions you could ask about Turkey's role in this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140259	With that, we thank Mr. Naser Khader. And so we have come to the conclusion that it is the Foreign Minister who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140312	Thank you. Thank you for a very good debate and thank you for your views. There may be some nuance differences, but in general I think the debate is very good that we all take the situation very seriously. Thank you for the praise for government action. I noted that people would have liked it to have been quicker and earlier. That's the way it is. But we are acting after all and have also chosen to take the lead if we look at what we do in the rest of the world. I think that we are actually doing well and fighting for a liberal world order and the fundamental values that we believe should be defended around the world. The killing of Khashoggi has brought a great deal of international attention. And in my justification for the policy we are pursuing, I also specifically referred to the situation in Yemen. There has been a discussion today about whether Yemen should have been included in the text of the proposal for adoption, but I have specifically referred in my explanatory statement to the fact that what is going on there is also unacceptable. We must continue to put pressure on Saudi Arabia. We need to settle the case of the murder of Khashoggi. We need to prosecute all those responsible. And, in addition to what I said earlier today, we will continue to work, both through the European Union and the United Nations, to improve the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. There are still outstanding issues. It is there, and almost all the rapporteurs have already mentioned it today. So, of course, I take note of the nuances of the debate, and I also note that it is perhaps an opening to a dialogue to find a text for a proposal for adoption that even more could be behind it. I will leave that to the rapporteur to continue working on. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140520	Thank you. I should like to point out that if a proposal for adoption is to be adopted with another text, then we must actually withdraw those that have been tabled and put forward a new one. Otherwise, it is the proposals that are put forward that apply. That's the game rules in this house. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 4 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181129140551	Then we have come to the conclusion that there is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 30 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
