ParlaMint-DK_20180420100027	Today there is the following review: Jacob Mark (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Request no. F 31 (What can the Minister say about plans for the development of government personnel policy, including how to improve the working environment, reduce stress levels and create more trusting relationships? on the development of the State sector's personnel policy). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 13 April 2018, it was decided that the Resort Responsibility for all tasks related to radio room manning and housing for use by the Radio-based Maritime Emergency and Security Service in Greenland and Denmark is transferred from the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister of Defence. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 13 April 2018 provides that the responsibility for all tasks related to the manning and housing of radio space for the use of the radio-based maritime emergency and security service in Greenland and Denmark is transferred from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister for Defence per year. 25. April 15, 2018. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100121	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Culture first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100142	Thank you for the floor. Motion for a resolution B 100 aims to debureaucratize artistic education under the Ministry of Culture, and the proposal then sets out to exempt artistic education from reporting annual reports to the Ministry of Culture and instead to demand that they keep up with the progress of graduates after completing training. I fully understand the intention to make everyday life easier for artistic education and to give them greater freedom and scope for their core tasks of training to the highest artistic level, but I cannot support the proposal. The rules for State institutions to submit annual reports have been laid down by the Minister of Finance pursuant to the Order on State Accounting, etc., and I do not think it is realistic or desirable to exempt artistic education from a requirement to which all other state institutions are subject. The government and the Folketing should know what we get for the money that is allocated to the courses each year, so they as state institutions should report on that. We owe it to the people to have transparency. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Culture is already following the employment situation of graduates and that the institutions are following graduates through studies conducted every three years. But, of course, I would like to help to see whether the Ministry of Culture, in dialogue with the institutions, can make the administration of training easier, that goes without saying, and that is why I have asked the institutions to report their wishes to administrative reliefs and simplifications, and they have done so. The institutions' reports are currently being discussed at the meeting with the principals of the Ministry of Culture, which I launched in autumn 2017 on the area's challenges and development perspectives. The Ministry of Culture expects a concrete follow-up, and we expect to follow up on a number of the proposals submitted by the institutions during the autumn of 2018. In 2018 the Ministry of Culture will also have to conclude new framework agreements with the artistic educational institutions for the period 2019-2022, and in this context the Ministry will focus on simplifying the objectives set out in the framework agreements and therefore also in the annual reports, and I will therefore announce that the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100421	Thank you. There are a few questions and comments. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100426	Thank you. It is therefore gratifying that the motion for a resolution, after all, has meant that some of it will be eased. But I can get a little worried, even though the Minister started out as a breath of fresh air, because I think the Minister is increasingly listening to the officials of the Ministry of Culture. I really think that is a good proposal. A state institution like the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen can easily fulfil these tasks... they have 46 million. kr. a year, so there's staff for that kind of thing. But the non-governmental institutions in Odense and in Aarhus have more difficulty in doing so. They get a state subsidy, and they only have 10%. of what the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen gets. So they're gonna have a harder time maintaining their independence. So wouldn't it make sense to remove the paperwork in order to preserve these artistic educational institutions in Odense and Aarhus in the future, and therefore outside the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100533	Thank you for the question and comment. I would like to say that the position I take here is my very own. I really think that when you invest taxpayers' money on the public side, whatever it is in, we as taxpayers and citizens in society have the right to gain insight into how this money is spent. The whole question of the annual report is actually something that is developing a lot in these years, trying to see if you can make the annual reports in a simpler way. Some annual reports in some sectors have been so comprehensive that it could be difficult to get an overview of what was in it at all. However, the fact that an annual report has to be presented for its activities, its use of the resources made available by the public authorities, is clearly a fundamental principle of democracy and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100624	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100626	After all, we agree that they must show how they spend the money, the question is how to do it best and most unbureaucraticly. The simplest way is simply to follow the graduates, because then we know whether we get anything out of it, then we know whether there is high unemployment or whether there is not whether education is working or not. So the question is not whether there should be transparency and we can keep up, but how we are going to do it. At present, a centralisation item is being carried out in the Ministry, based on the Sveidahl report. Is it not time to think new and preserve independent entities and make it as unbureaucratic as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100710	Well, now Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen me about something I don't know. I do not know what kind of centralisation thing is going on in the Ministry of Culture at the moment. Right now, the rectors themselves are working on how to cooperate in the future, and what issues it may be relevant to address in relation to the Sveidahl report. And I have expressly said that there will be no legislation on my part that will force, for example. mergers and other. As far as following graduates is concerned, I think that the rapporteur is kicking in an open door, because it is already happening. Of course, we need to know how the graduates are doing, what is the reason why some people are doing well and some less well and so on. That work is already in full swing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100754	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100757	I would first like to commend the Minister for the dialogue with the institutions that she has initiated. I think that is quite the right approach. Then I would just like to ask whether the Minister is aware that the Ministry can already offer the small institutions to submit reduced annual reports. Is this an opportunity that has been considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100817	As I also mentioned in my speech, we are looking at making it as simple as possible, because we have no wish whatsoever and I think there is broad political support for it to make things more bureaucratic and more complicated than they are. As simple as possible is a clue that I am clearly pursuing, and I will of course do so in the continued work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100840	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420100852	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution. I can make the position of the Social Democratic Party fairly clear. We are, of course, generally in favour of all the debureaucratisation in the public sector that we can get away with at all, and of course also in the educational institutions of culture. We are doing so because, of course, we need to use public funds and tax dollars in the best way possible and to promote the purposes for which they have been given. That is why it is of no use to abolish the reporting of how they spend their money by artistic educational institutions. Of course, we also need to be able to go in and see on an annual basis, in the educational institutions of culture, as in all sorts of other institutions, how the crowns have been used. That openness must be open to citizens in relation to the use of citizens' tax dollars. We can discuss how it should be shaped. I fully agree with the Minister that, if there are unnecessary reporting in these annual reports or things you might think are superfluous in relation to the knowledge that the public should have access to, we can remove it, and let us discuss it. I can't wait to get a presentation from the Minister for Culture about it on the basis of the collection that is apparently under way. We are very happy to be involved in this, but there must be a statement on how the institutions spend taxpayers' money. That's what everyone has to demand. The Minister then said that what the Danish People's Party wants the institutions to do instead, namely follow the graduates, is already going on. It has also been the subject of some discussions in the culture group, because what do we do with regard to the institutions where it is difficult for graduates to succeed afterwards? So it is a documentation that we already have and a discussion that is already under way. So I would like to say that if the Danish People's Party is - and I hope so - engaged in how the institutions get more room for manoeuvre and can raise the quality of the educational institutions, then the Danish People's Party would rather look at the reduction regime of which you are part and which over the last four years has removed 640 million. kr. Among other things: the artistic educational institutions. It is there that we cut the institutions' ability to increase quality and perhaps also maintain the quality of their work. So there I can only encourage the Danish People's Party to help strengthen Danish art and culture rather than cut back. This also applies to the artistic educational institutions. So social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101214	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101216	I'm a little surprised, for Mr. Knox. After all, Mogens Jensen agreed with you when we went out and criticised the centralisation idea of the Sveidahl report. The consequence must then also be that the administrative burden is relieved, because one of the reasons given by Sveidahl for centralising and merging artistic education was that the small units were not skilled or large enough or did not have sufficient professional power to carry out all the tasks that they had and which would also be in the future. Then the logical consequence must be to reduce the paperwork and give them a little more freedom. So I simply do not understand the policy of social democracy. On the one hand, one is opposed to the Sveidahl report's ghost of centralisation and fusion, and on the other hand, one will not help make it easier for them to maintain their independence and concentrate on what they are good at, namely education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101323	But the Social Democrats are still opposed to the proposal for centralisation, which has been on the table and is on the table and which has been proposed by the education programmes. Now, of course, we shall hear what comes out of the discussion that the institutions themselves have with the Ministry, but it is our starting point that we do not believe in this proposal to bring all artistic educational institutions together into one large institution. But there is no contradiction between having that view and still saying that whatever structure we have for the institutions, it must of course be possible to explain, and it must be made public how to use the tax dollars and what effects are derived from what is being done on the institutions. It is, of course, entirely related to having the two views at the same time, so I do not understand Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101417	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101418	Sir. Mogens Jensen also said that the social democracy was too debureaucratic, and I would like to know: if you cannot say yes to the present proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is here, what ideas have been made? How is that supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101437	Well, I don't understand at all that sir. Alex Ahrendtsen believes that it is in the interests of our citizens that we can no longer see what results they produce on our institutions; that we cannot gain insight into the economy and the consumption of resources by individual institutions. It is certainly in the interests of the citizens that there should be transparency and that the institutions should be able to put forward their activities and their results so that we can judge year by year how things are going and what they are doing on the institutions. In fact, we need more of this, that is to say that citizens know what is going on and can decide on it. So this is not debureaucratisation, in my view, because it will mean making it harder for citizens to see through and get information about what is happening in our artistic educational institutions, and I see no advantage in that at all. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101528	Thank you. So there are no more comments, and then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101551	Thank you. I apologise for for forgetting that the proposer is always in the end of the series of speeches. On the proposal, I would say that the intentions are good, i.e. debureaucratisation. In fact, I also think that there is something good in the proposal from the Danish People's Party, namely that we have a little more insight into this, about how, as part of the debureaucratisation in the organisation of the approach to the public sector, we can have more insight into output, and what we want out of what is happening in the public sector, rather than focus on process. We nerd the details of how things are to be done. Those intentions are good. I just do not think that the way forward is to say that we are now taking out this part of a fiscal guide on how we have openness in the process. I think we should work on it together. That is one concern of the proposal. The second concern about the proposal is that why is it that we have to do it from in here, why is it that we do not include it from below? There I refer to the Minister's remarks about the work being done, involving the people who have their hands on the matter, the rectors and others, and the views they have, and the series of meetings that the Minister has started and has set in motion, and I actually believe that for some of what is also about the debureaucratisation of the public sector, we will have the best result if it grows from below. Against this background, the Left supports all the intentions, but not the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101746	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101749	Thank you for your kind words about purpose. It is quite true that that is the intention. As far as involving the parties is concerned, I have held some meetings with the parties concerned. We talked about many things, but we also talked about the bureaucratic aspect of reporting, that is, there were simply things that were completely unnecessary and that created a certain behaviour that was not necessary. I did not say, on the basis of these conversations, that we can do it this way, as the parties, the rectors and others have suggested. That's one way to do it. If the rapporteur then agrees with the intention, but disagrees with how we should do so, how could we do so? I am thinking in particular of the rapporteur's long experience in the region. It might be possible to make a contribution here to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420101855	I believe that the way forward in terms of debureaucratisation is based primarily on two legs, namely that we are trying to have an overall approach to looking at output rather than process. This is also the intention of the cohesion reform and its comments on debureaucratisation. And then I think that it comes from the bottom up, in relation to involving those it affects, and there I think that we in the Danish Parliament too, across successive governments, sometimes have to grasp our own bosom, in relation to whether or not we have created the framework for increased bureaucracy, because in unfortunate cases there is always a demand for increased control. Let's imagine a case of inappropriate use of funds within the area now I'm just mentioning a random example of the VUC. It would then be possible to imagine that there would then be a political demand that we should do something about that. The content of that demand is often more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102009	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102013	After all, the rapporteur has many years of experience as regional mayor. Is it not the case that the less an institution is, the harder it is often to meet state demands because they are becoming more and more academic and they require more and more control or counting or fulfillment of goals? So if we continue along this path, can it not be a danger to the smaller artistic education outside the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102045	That danger is rightly referred to. I also believe that the danger applies in general, which is why I think it is inappropriate to take out less artistic education, but to look at the sector in its context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102107	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102115	As I read it out of the somewhat sparse, I think, comments, the point of this proposal is that instead of tying artistic education into a lot of detailed requirements and rules, which are to be explained in an annual report, artistic education should only have a general objective and then subsequently be measured by how well the graduates manage after the end of training courses. This amendment shall include, inter alia: then lead to debureaucratisation, administrative savings and less djøfisation. If we stop here, the Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposal. This is not just the case when we talk about artistic education; it is generally the case when we talk about the public sector: there is too much control, there is too much retail management from above, and there is far too little left to the employees and their professional skills. I think that is also part of the background to the anger that we see today among many civil servants and which is reflected in the current collective bargaining. But, as you know, the devil is in the detail, and there I think the proposal is a little short, perhaps because of the not very elaborate remarks. I simply lack some arguments. I am left with a number of questions, in fact a large number of questions, for example. on the exemption from the preparation of annual reports. Well, how much time is spent on it anyway? And the general abolition of the annual reporting obligation will also have some disadvantages, for example. in the form of a lack of experience acquisition and transfer which can be used by other institutions? Maybe, maybe not. There is nothing in the comments on the proposal that goes into it, but I think that will be important to clarify that. Another example is the proposal that the training courses should be measured solely by how well the outgoing pupils are doing afterwards. At first glance, I think it sounds enticing, but how exactly is this measurement supposed to take place? The proposal mentions income, the frequency of exhibitions, works sold and the like, but how soon after that should it be assessed 5 years, 10 years or 20 years? It may be relatively long to have to wait to clarify whether an artistic education now also has a level that justifies it receiving subsidies from taxpayers. It may also be possible, and this is actually a very crucial argument for us, to lead us to focus, in certain training courses, on today's artistic labour market rather than on tomorrow's artistic labour market. There may be a risk that some courses will be more preserving than they are, and more preserving than they will be innovative. This is one of the things that we think is important in art: it is to be innovative. But that does not change the fact that we are positive about the overall intention and we hope that the proposers will use the work of the committee to try to get the proposal better grounded and justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102502	Thank you for your speech and the relatively positive words. Well, it's always a pleasure to hear Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. Of course, many questions have not been answered. It is a motion for a resolution which must be put forward for further work. As I actually hear the rapporteur, Enhedslisten is interested in the fact that in the work of the committee we are trying to qualify this motion for a resolution and possibly also get answers to some of the questions which Mr. Søren Søndergaard has asked. Is it not true that if we can qualify it, if we can find some ways to deal with it here, Enhedslisten is actually involved in some form of debureaucratisation and would like to take part in this work in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102547	Well, I could actually just say yes, but I would like to qualify it a little by saying that it is not just some form. We are but I would like to repeat it and I hope that we can have the opportunity to discuss it with Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen, i.e. the question of how we ensure that artistic education is not just focused on what can just sell and what can just do today. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Says that it is after 1 year that you have to assess whether people have received an income, if people have got the job, if people have exhibited, etc., it may make some education think that they should be very focused on perhaps not even today, but yesterday, and it is of course important that artistic education opens up the possibility of having education, where people have the opportunity to be innovative and sometimes ahead of their time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102638	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102640	I do not think we should be afraid that they will be innovative if we change this, because only 50 or 100 years ago there were plenty of artists who were innovative, but who did not have a state in their backs to help themselves, both in Denmark and abroad. So, many of our great, well-known artists didn't get any money, they were trained painters before they went into the art trade. There's even some of their art hanging here at Christiansborg. After all, we already have the opportunity today to follow the graduates so that we can easily do so. Does it not reassure the rapporteur a little, when we look back in art history, that one can easily be innovative without it all hitting into a djøfram?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102725	Well, when I look back in history and look at some of those who have really been innovative, I see that they have had some people to ensure their subsistence, some people who have given them some money, i.e. patrons as kings and princes, rich people, people who had money to support some people. I would just like to say that this is not a system we are in favour of. Now our position on the kingdom is known, and we have discussed this in previous proposals, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has put forward; it was not about money, it was about medals, but leave it alone. We think that there is more reason in the fact that it is a social task to support it than it is for some individual rich people. But of course this is just part of the discussion, it was an element in the discussion. We are in favour of the proposal. I can assure you that we will help to clarify the questions I and others have raised in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102824	Thank you. The next one is sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420102836	Thank you. This isn't the first time that mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and Dansk Folkeparti put their finger on an important question, and it stands right on the board above me, namely debureaucratisation. This society has a tendency to create bureaucracy. I have previously been in voluntary association work, which received tips money. It went really well for many years. The money went directly from Danske Spil, which was called the Danish Tip Service at the time, to the organisations with such a declaration of confidence that in the voluntary association work it was probably spent the best possible and very well, and that it was the organisations' own decision-making bodies, general meetings etc. that decided how the money was to be spent and that it was there that the board was to answer for it. And thus we had a variety of organizational work with different purposes; an organisation that had relations with free schools and colleges, and an organisation that was more of an elite sport, etc. It developed. And then we have actually, what should we say, put on a leash, because now the money is running over the Ministry of Culture, and then there are reports and rules on what the money is for. And that means that there is a risk that organisations will start running for the same things, namely the things they have to report on: how much has been achieved in the field of health, how many active ones, how much do you get in the way of your activities? It's a risk. Firstly, bureaucracy, but secondly, there is a risk that we will actually be steering the affair out there. That is why I think it is important to debate these issues. In fact, in the Liberal Alliance, we have a debureaucratisation rapporteur, and we have actually presented a debureaucratisation proposal in 2017. It is always a heavy matter to discuss debureaucratisation. It didn't really get up and fly. Even journalists aren't interested in that kind of thing. Because it's too difficult anyway, because we have so many rules. And then it is quite right, as the Minister says, that in the end we are responsible for the money that goes out, and I suppose the citizen expects some control over that too. So it's a difficult balance. Now it is pointed out here that the government should be required to remove a report on these artistic educations. And I don't believe that's how to do it, and I haven't answered how. For the public sector as a whole, I am convinced, needs to be tempered with the eyes of bureaucracy, and we could appropriately try to unite on this. How could we get it on the agenda to a greater extent? After all, the government has signalled it and has almost a minister who has it as an area, but who seems to be busy with many other things too, so it is such a thing that it may not be at the top of the table, and that may be so a pity, and then the time has suddenly passed, and then there are elections again, and then perhaps not so much happens. So I think it is absolutely right to put our finger on the fact that we tend to set up rules for all things in the world, because we must finally make sure that no one will be responsible for the fact that a few crowns are being used incorrectly. I just want to say that development actually requires risks and a risk of a few crowns being used incorrectly. And it is difficult in relation to the public sector and ministerial responsibility etc. So I recognize the dilemma and think it's needed. We cannot support this proposal because we are in government and we are doing everything in the world and, of course, I agree with the Minister for Culture that this is not the way we can do it. But I have a lot of sympathy for us getting something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103210	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103212	It was a good thing that the rapporteur had just said it at the end, otherwise I would almost think that the rapporteur had been in favour of the proposal. But I thought it was very interesting to hear about the experience of leisure. For it is absolutely right that goals create behavior, and rules will govern behavior, not only in association, but also in all other areas of public life. So I'm wondering if the rapporteur, with his extensive experience of association, would like to help the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten to qualify this proposal, so that somehow we can put pressure on the Minister, the Ministry of Culture and the other ministries that we have to get this work started, and I also heard that the Left basically thought the intention was good, but that the way was not good. Will the rapporteur be involved in this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103309	I do not think it is particularly necessary to put pressure on the Minister. After all, we have a very liberal minister from a good political party who is certainly interested in both debureaucratisation and a high degree of freedom, which is a headline, and I do not think it will be difficult. It is more to find the roads together: how can we do it responsibly without getting too bad things pile up that it went wrong anyway? How do we find ways of doing so with a trust heading and then a guarantee that the money will be spent on the basis of the idea in which it is given? It was an exercise we could do together, and that is why it is actually more a parliamentary matter, I think, than it is an opposition or government matter. So if pressure is to be put anywhere, we're pretty much ready. We're ready to debureaucratize.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103400	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103402	That sounds good. Something else I was thinking about is how we keep an eye on government institutions that get money from us. After all, we have proposed that graduates should be followed and that they should be able to do so after the end of their education. However, was there any other way of tackling it, according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103428	It's hard to say how to do it differently. This is a difficult matter, because if it was an easy matter, then there is nothing easier than saying that you have confidence and greater freedom, etc. I hardly hear a party that is not interested in it. So there are no easy solutions. Now it has begun, and one can hear that there will be a pretty good commitment to committee work in discussing this, and then we will have to see how far we go or whether we can push the government to do a little more about it. Or the proposal we put on the table here last year, in 2017, we might get a little more flying than we did at that time and get more attention on it. There is cooperation across parties that travel around in their local area and regions and talk to mayors about how to do better. So there is so let us with joint help try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103509	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103517	Thank you. In the alternative, we are very much in favour of debureaucratisation and we are pleased that the proposers want to protect the independence and artistic integrity of artistic education. We can support that ambition in the alternative. We believe that the role of art in society is to push our firm ideas about society, make us reflect differently about ourselves, personally and together, and inspire us to new ways. And that very role requires independence. That is why we must be particularly sensitive to the independence of art education. In Denmark we have chosen to have several art courses located in different regions. It gives a diversity in the way future artists are trained in Denmark, and thus a diversity in how they perform their artistic activities. We very much agree with the proposers that this diversity must be supported and that we must avoid centralisation. However, precisely because the arts must be independent and because there is a need for a variety of different ways of performing art, we do not agree with the target requirements set by the proposers to replace the existing target requirements. On the other hand, we believe that target requirements, where the graduates are measured by income, the frequency of exhibition and the number of works sold as proposed, will result in a uniformity and even less independence than is the case today. This will create an alignment because a focus on a commercialisation of the target requirements with a focus on e.g. income and sales will create a focus on the salesability of art rather than the role of independent critics and challengers of our current standards and social conditions, which we put at the heart of the Alternative, and create less independence, because we believe that commercial and activity-oriented goals will make artistic education and thus artistic practice dependent on the same standards of economic usefulness that apply in the rest of our society. In the alternative, we believe that art is useful because it is free. That is why we are voting against the proposal, but we would very much like to talk further about how we can draw up a common approach to the debureaucratisation of artistic education and show greater confidence in the artistic management of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103813	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103815	Thank you for a good analysis, which unfortunately leads to a slightly different conclusion than I had hoped for. But the analysis is correct, and I agree with that. It is also fair to disagree with the target requirements that we have set up as an alternative to what is happening today. If the alternative were to set targets, could the rapporteur explain it, because I do not think the rapporteur really touched on that? That is one question. Secondly, will the rapporteur be involved in the work that the Enhedslisten and the partial Left and the Liberal Alliance have actually said they want to be involved in, namely that we are working for some form of de-bureaucratisation with other objectives? That is why it is important for me to know whether the alternative has given some thought to how we can measure rather than how we do it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103918	To the last question, I can say yes. I have also said this in the rapporteur's speech, namely that we would very much like to be involved in further work on debureaucratisation. I do not think that this is a place to put forward what targets it should be. It must be in a dialogue with those who want to try to set other targets, so I will not go into that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103942	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420103944	Well, that's all right, of course, it can also be difficult to set new targets. Another thing I would like to ask a little is the fear of centralisation that the rapporteur has and which I share. Could a debureaucratisation not lead to the strengthening of less artistic education outside the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104011	I didn't quite hear the last part, but I might be able to answer anyway. So, for us, it is artistic freedom that is essential. That is what we believe is the task of art, also to ask critical questions about society, also to come up with works that are less marketable. They might be once, just think of some of the biggest painters we've ever had. They sold almost nothing in their time, they starved and painted on old canvass and such like, and then they became some of the greatest artists we've had in the history of the world. It should not be salesability that determines the art. It must be freedom, and it must be quality, and it is quite clear that this will be a very important argument for us when we start setting targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104055	Thank you. And then we have the next rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104106	We fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, namely that there is too much bureaucracy. This applies not only to artistic education, but perhaps to the whole of the public sector. There is, of course, a bureacracy, but also inappropriate demands for documentation. We also agree that there may be a need for the Folketing to press for a debureaucratisation and to relax some of these many documentation requirements. On the other hand, we do not believe that the solution should be found in the Parliamentary Chamber, which is why we are also pleased that the Minister himself has taken the initiative to discuss possible debureaucratisation proposals with the educational institutions. We believe that it is in the dialogue between ministries and the institutions that the good solutions are found. And the proposers' own proposal really illustrates that point very well. Because it is true that when you run through the text, you see that it seems easy and unbureaucratic, but if you actually look at the parameters mentioned by the Danish People's Party itself, you can see that it will lead to a whole new bureaucracy. In other words, targets for the frequency of exhibition and the sale of works, and these are figures that do not exist at all today. These are figures which the educational institutions will have to collect, and if they are figures that you have to be able to compare across educational institutions, then you have to make a very special model for it, and the figures may need to be stored in Denmark's Statistics etc. etc. So, to the best of my knowledge, we are just replacing bureaucracy with another bureaucracy. And what bureaucracy is today, which I also think is largely superfluous, are nevertheless figures that are slightly easier, i.e. how many hours you have taught, how many guest lecturers there have been. We can agree that this may not be what an institution needs to be measured on, but it is, after all, easier for the institution to count than it is afterward to go out and find out how many graduates have exhibited and what they have sold. And, by the way, how are we going to do that? Not to mention the model of these target figures that will then have to be developed; the work that will be in Denmark's statistics etc., etc. So it's just an example, that you can't sit around and solve the problem in the Parliamentary Chamber. This reminds me a little of a case we had yesterday in this Chamber. It was also the Danish People's Party that found it problematic that passports were sent by post, because then they could stay away. That is why a resolution had been tabled that everyone should now go down and pick up the passport at the police station or at the local authority or wherever it is available. And I would like to say again: it is not in the Chamber that we have to find those solutions. It would also result in enormous bureaucracy, and there was my reply to the Danish People's Party: there may be a problem here, but let us raise the problem with the Minister and let the Ministry and the professional authorities find a proper solution. This isn't where it's located. Well, this is the legislative power, and that is the executive power. It is our job to keep them on a short leash and look over their shoulders etc. and so on, but it is not our job from here to set up the public sector and find the good administrative solutions. What we Radicals then think one could consider in the Ministry unless one finds some really good solutions with the educational institutions, and I think that most of all was to use the possibility that the institutions can submit reduced annual reports. Frankly, I do not know what the difference is between the extended annual report and the reduced annual report and whether there are any figures that are lost. So I would also fully understand if the Minister had good arguments that it did not make sense. However, it is an option available today, according to the advice of the Modernisation Authority. So there are things you can do, but I believe that even though it is not my government that the best solution is after all found in a dialogue between the Ministry and the institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104500	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stamp could just stay up here if Mrs. Zenia Stamp would be so kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104508	I would just like to say that a delegation from the Icelandic Parliament, under the leadership of the Icelandic President, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, has visited Parliament these days. I welcome the delegation and hope that a fruitful visit will be made. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104544	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104546	The rapporteur did not let go. Thanks for the speech. I would also like to welcome the fact that, after all, we agree with the intention, even though it is believed that the proposal leads to more bureaucracy. I disagree slightly that we should not put the matter on the agenda in the Folketing. I agree that we cannot solve this, but ultimately reporting is something that happens through legislation, and that is why at some point we have to get over it in the Folketing. So my question to the rapporteur is really whether the Radical Left agrees that we in the committee are looking at how we can debureaucratise. There are a number of rapporteurs, but not the Social Democrat rapporteur, who have been very positive that we are looking at this in committee. Could the rapporteur be involved in such work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104643	We want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104645	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104647	I am very pleased about that. The next question is so little about centralisation. The Sveidahl report, published by the Ministry of Culture, meant a huge merger, and I am wondering whether we should not also ensure that in this work we protect the slightly smaller units outside the capital, because the less they become, the greater the work of reporting they get. Does the rapporteur agree with that conclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104723	I fully agree with that. We are also in my own party dealing with governance models in the public sector, and some of what I myself am actually rather inspired of is one of the governance that is in the field of culture, for example. the regional theater area, where you have four evaluations of professionals, which is a completely different steering instrument from that of reporting and tables, and then they sit in a municipal or central administration and compare. In fact, it is a steering instrument which can be used by the individual institution and which is aimed at them rather than at the administration and which is my impression really being used. I think that is a fantastic inspirational instrument, and it could be that such instruments could be used instead, but that would not be something I would like to propose here, because I believe that these are some models that need to be developed in the Ministry and with the institutions. However, I fully agree that we can put pressure on and that we can indicate a direction, and I think we should do so too. We are totally in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more comments. There is no rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, nor from the Conservative People's Party, and then we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420104853	Thank you, President. I think it can be concluded that my colleagues have rejected the proposal in its present form, but that overall there is some goodwill to look at the debureaucratisation of artistic education, because both the Minister and also a number of rapporteurs have said that they would like to take part in the work of the committee. So, in this way, I think we have already made a good step forward. It's pretty crucial that we get a look at this debureaucratisation. After all, I have spoken to a large number of directors of artistic education outside the capital, and they are having a difficult time. This is because the more money they need to spend on de-reporting, the fewer they can spend on education. And it is the education that is at the heart of their work. So I'll look forward to it. How we're gonna deal with this, I'm gonna think about it, but there's a lot of ways to do it. Then I would like to touch on a few points of what the rapporteurs have said. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party and the rapporteur are no longer in the Chamber; they themselves do not have any proposals to abolish the paperwork, even though they agree that the Sveidahl report shows that centralisation is increasing. I hope, then, that the Social Democrats will be as sympathetic as I think the rest of those present have been in relation to debureaucratising. Then I think that, as the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Carl Holst, said that we should work from below, that is to say that we should involve the parties • is a good idea. We can, of course, invite the rectors to a closed meeting in which they can tell us about their experience. I think that could make us smarter. So thank you for that. Then there's the Enhedslisten. It's always a pleasure to hear sir. Søren Søndergaard, who is also good at putting his finger where the proposal has its weaknesses. I would say, however, that we should not be afraid that another form of reporting with greater freedom will not create innovative art. After all, there are many artists who have not had the support of a patron either the state or the private community who have still been great artists. That is also an answer to the alternative rapporteur. You can, for example. Think of Michelangelo. He was supported by ecclesiastical patrons, and he did excellent art. We can also just look here in the Folketing or at Christiansborg. There are Danish artists who started learning as painters and who gradually developed to become excellent portrait painters. There are Johannes Nielsens's paintings at Christiansborg. They have also been created because there has been a market for them. The craftsmanship's been okay. Those were great artists. So I don't really think you should be afraid of that. I think it is a good idea to measure the employment rate of graduates after all. The Ministry already does that, so it's relatively easy to do that kind of thing. As usual, it was very enjoyable to hear the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's rejection, which always sounds like a yes. But the experience that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen has made himself felt in society, I think we should take advantage of the work of the committee when we, in cooperation with the Ministry, want to make a model for how we can debureaucratize. I would very much like to hear more about the experience and possible approach, because I think there is a parallel there. As I said, the alternative had a good analysis, but in many ways you are afraid of the market. We should not be afraid of the market, I must say to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, on the contrary, the market is good for art. What is at stake here is that the educational institutions concentrate on what they are good at: training, rather than being governed by rules that lead to a certain behaviour. It is something that kills the innovative. So if we can now give artistic education the responsibility and the confidence that they are doing what they are going to do back, then I think we have come a long way and when they get that freedom, good things are also being created and innovative things are being created. It is not possible to create new ones without the craftsmanship in order. That's pretty crucial. Finally, I would like to say to the Radicals: yes, we cannot solve the matter here in Parliament, but this is where we are discussing it, and it is here too that we are adopting legislation on how much reporting there should be, how much targeting there should be. So it starts here. The work itself can then be done in committee. It could happen over at the minister's office. This may be done in cooperation with the parties concerned. So I am not at all sorry that we have put it in the Chamber, because if we had not put it in the Chamber, it would just have happened between the minister and the rectors in a closed room. I think it is important that we get in, especially because there are people who have experience of what reporting can do about society or cultural life. So all in all, I really think it has been a surprisingly good debate, even though both the Minister and the rapporteurs rejected the proposal in its present form. I look forward to the work of the committee, where hopefully we can arrange some meetings with the Minister, with the rectors, with other interested parties, so that we can learn more about how we can debureaucratise. It is crucial for us in this country that we debureaucraticise, because it would also help the small educational institutions outside the capital, and we need to have a Denmark in balance, including on cultural life, and so we do not do that by strangling them with too many targets. Thank you for the debate. I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a comment from Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105535	I think that much of it, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said, sounded like sweet music to my ears, and I really think there were some words I could have used myself, but perhaps not only about the cultural area, also a little wider. That is why I would like to ask whether this is a general view of the public sector, or whether it only applies to culture, because without insulting the Danish People's Party, I do not think that otherwise it is a party that is drawing towards less control and decentralisation, for example. Talks about employment, health, education and, indeed, education specifically, where I know the rapporteur also has a share, that is, what we have imposed on the public schools for the last ten years, which many teachers also think are bureaucratic and make their everyday life more difficult. How does Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is actually dealing with this general issue in a slightly larger perspective, where we are not just talking about the cultural area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105631	After all, I have been a leader in the fight with the violent goal management, which was enshrined in the primary school law, and which was completely different from what we agreed. I was the only one remaining from the primary school reform, and I pressed for three years before finally convincing the Ministry and successive ministers that we had to change the law so that we had the target management we had asked for, so that on the one hand we could keep up with, and on the other hand the teachers and the schools and the municipalities were freed. That's one. The second is that the municipalities themselves have put down a lot of target management over which we have never asked them, and we are also keeping an eye on that. In the other areas, I am not the rapporteur and therefore do not have the opportunity to comment on it, but overall it is important that we ensure that we do not constantly produce unnecessary controls, reporting and thus create behaviour that does not give us what we have actually asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105733	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105737	I asked for the floor to speak on the rapporteur's final and fine remarks on the same ball street as the previous one, namely whether I could get the rapporteur to reflect a little on the part of the bureaucracy created by the fact that cases, individual cases, most often have to have solutions in the form of firmness and control, and now something has to be done which is precisely bureaucratic. I think that, as far as my own party is concerned, I can find a simple example. I also believe that I can find a single or two or perhaps a little more examples from the author's party, where, precisely because of a matter in a municipality, in a region or somewhere else, action has been taken which has been more symbolic than has resulted in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105836	The debate in the House today suffers a little, but it is of course an important point that we politicians are under intense pressure after individual cases in the media, and then we have to do something. Then when we do something, we will have to make rules and change the legislation in an unfortunate way, which actually leads to even more bureaucracy. There you just have to do away with yourself as a parliament politician, how you want to deal with it, and that requires self-limitation, and it requires self-confidence to resist such pressure, because sometimes in individual cases there is something real to hold onto, namely that the law and the rules simply do not work, and in other areas it just means that the reporting and target management gets even worse, because once it gets into the ministries and the DJOs take over, it is clear that it often turns into mak work. So we have the responsibility ourselves, and there I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105938	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420105940	Thank you very much. I would also like to make one comment on the fact that the alternative should be afraid of the market. We are not, as it were, but we do not believe that the market can be used as a target for the requirements to be made. As I said, we do not believe that graduates should be measured by income, the frequency of exhibition or the number of works sold, because this would then necessarily start to measure their art by what can be sold, and we do not think this would be appropriate for art. But afraid of the market? No, we're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110018	However, the alternative will have the opportunity to make their proposals on how we can debureaucratize. If you do not believe that you do this by following the employment rate of graduates, there are other options that the alternative can offer. We ourselves believe that this is a simpler and relatively unbureaucratic thing to do, while the rapporteur of the Radicals thought that it would create even more bureaucracy. This is something we can uncover in the course of a committee procedure, and I am open to anything. The aim must simply be to ensure that the small artistic education in the province outside the capital, and that we create less bureaucracy and make it simpler for schools to work so that they can concentrate on what they are good at, namely education. That is what they are passionate about; they are passionate about educating future musicians, painters, sculptors, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110111	Thank you. There are no more comments or comments to the rapporteur, but the Minister for Culture has asked for speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110125	In fact, I think it has been a fine debate we have had today, but I also think there were some dilemmas raised here in the last round. We all agree, of course, that we do not want bureaucracy, we do not want detailed management, but what we are in the Chamber discussing today is an annual report, and the discussion shows that it can be difficult, on the one hand, to want to decentralise and debureaucratise, while, on the other hand, we also want to go in and interfere with some relatively small things in relation to the individual. In the field of artistic education, I would like to say that the dilemma is that it may well be that we all want to debureaucratize and want to give more freedom to organise, but there are some people in this Parliament, some parties and some rapporteurs who would very much like to go into the details of what study arrangements are to be provided and what kind of subjects they should have on these courses. So that dilemma does not go away, and hopefully we will have to make each other better at finding out where it is then that there is a need for some central framework and rules and where freedom is supposed to be. I fully agree with that balance that is not there today. But if you want to give more freedom, you must also take the consequence of it, namely that there may be some who do things in a way that you actually disagree with. But I look forward to the further debate because it will not stop but will continue in the years to come. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110248	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has just made a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110252	Thank you, Minister, for taking the floor. It's nice to have a minister throwing himself into the business. What is a little interesting when you look at it in an art historian light is that it is as if the more reporting, the more target numbers we have received, the fewer artists with an international cut are left. If we go back a hundred years, there were excellent painters in Denmark, and there were no targets, there were no targets, there were no reports, no, one trusted that the teachers and professors at the academies trained, as one really thought a painter should be trained. So the question is whether it is not time for us to start to be inspired by how things were done earlier and then it leads up to our day, without giving up on the fact that we should of course also have a hand in dealing with how the money is spent. I think we can do better than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110401	I think so, too. And I'm not preoccupied with a lot of target numbers, I'm preoccupied with the right target numbers, and we'll see if we can figure that out. But I must also remind you that I know that the rapporteur himself has very strong views on the craft sector, for example. We have to do more in artistic education. So it cannot be said on the one hand that they should be allowed to organize things as they would like, because that was the way things were done in the past, because then there were some skilled professors and, on the other hand, we should say that we should decide that there should be more craft trades in artistic education. So you can't do both at once. At least I find that hard to see at first sight.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110436	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please. Try to push in, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Oh, my God. There are sound problems, and it happens too often. That can be recorded. Here you go. - Sir... Alex Ahrendtsen talk a little loud?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110441	I shall try to speak as loudly as I can at all so that the Minister can hear me. The Minister for Culture I always can). It is in connection with the admission requirements for the conservatories. The more craftsmanship you require when you have to admit students to artistic education, the more freedom you can actually give in the education itself. So it's all very well linked to debureaucratisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110542	Well, maybe I've heard wrong, but I think, for example, that I... Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says that drawing must be a subject in the visual arts programmes, but it may be that I have misunderstood, and I am sorry, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110554	Fine, fine, I hope everyone can hear it. The Minister for Culture I can hear the rapporteur).
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110602	[Sound emission]... At the academies you don't have these craft stuff at all. For example, you have to... no longer master drawing to be admitted. It is just that I say that the more the craftsmanship fills in the admission requirements, the more freedom you can give to the educational institutions. That is why it is very well linked to a debureaucratisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110640	Again, I may have misunderstood it, but I think I have heard the rapporteur say that drawing should be a subject in visual arts education, but we can clarify that afterwards, because I may have misunderstood it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420110651	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll have to figure out how wrong it is with the sound. It's bad, but we have to take a break. Is there any opinion on how long this could take? We'll take 15 minutes in the first place, and then we'll hope it's over. I shall now suspend the sitting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112414	The sitting is resumed. Unfortunately, as has been discovered, we have some technical problems. We do so in the way that everyone goes on the platform, even when it comes to the short remarks, because unfortunately you cannot get the speaker system to work from below, but as you can hear, it works from up here. Hopefully the light will come back soon. Everything will be recorded. What is the problem is that you cannot speak from the seats, nor can you really see the time, but the Secretary-General of Parliament here is making sure that this is so that I can stand up when the speaking time is running out. We shall now proceed to the first reading of motion for a resolution No. B 127.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112503	The debate is open, and the Minister for Culture first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112520	Thank you. The motion for a resolution on ensuring the participation of disabled people in public awareness activities has two elements. On the one hand, the proposers want an analysis to be made of the financial framework needed to ensure the participation of disabled people in public awareness activities under section 44 of the National Education Act. 2, also known as the disability pool, and it is also proposed that the necessary funds be allocated to the pool. On the one hand, it is proposed that, through dialogue with beneficiaries, a new administrative practice be established for the distribution of the pool, which will allow beneficiaries to be better acquainted with the annual financial framework. I should like to begin by stating that as Minister for Culture I am concerned that all citizens have access to the public-evidence activities of evening schools, associations, colleges and so on. I also believe that the National Education Act in various areas allows different groups, including the disabled, to be accommodated. It is primarily the municipalities that provide the framework for the public awareness activities, and this also applies to disabled citizens. The municipalities can provide additional basic grants for adult education for disabled participants, and the municipalities can also grant grants, for example, from their specific framework. special groups or for disabled persons. In addition, there is a smaller pool on the Finance Act. 2, i.e. the disability pool where the Minister for Culture grants grants for the participation of disabled people in the public awareness business. The pool can be searched for specific purposes, for example. be grants for transport, aids and interpreting assistance. The pool is distributed proportionately among the eligible applicants and more money has always been requested than is in the pool and therefore no full coverage is provided and has never been provided from the pool. In addition, the size of the pool is politically determined by the Finance Act. The total amount applied for in the pool over the years is already known, which is why we know about the wishes in general. I therefore see no need for us now to undertake a new analysis of the economic needs of applicants for the disability pool. I think it is a perfectly legitimate wish that the funds for the participation of disabled people in evening schools and in association life should be such that they fit the needs, but there is just the fact that resources are scarce. Both the state and the municipalities are therefore subject to the tight financial framework in these years, and therefore I see no possibility of adding more funds. On the other hand, I would very much like to look at whether changes can be made to the management of the pool so that the beneficiaries will have a better opportunity to plan on the basis of their grant from the pool. It is hardly necessary to make an announcement about it, but if something can be changed in the management of the pool which can make it easier for associations or citizens, I am, of course, willing to look at it. With these words, I would like to conclude by saying that the government does not support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112825	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Jakob Sølvhøj. And it's going on up here from the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112836	Yeah, we have to come up here to ask questions. Thanks for the speech. I am glad that the administrative section will be looked at. One might say that this seems to be a small matter for the Folketing. Nevertheless, I hear from the organisations that this is a really big problem, and that is also why we have raised this issue. I would like to ask the Minister something. I understand that there is obviously no willingness to add any more money to this pool today. Does the Minister not think that it is a major problem that, after a nine-year period, when we had funds from the rate pool to supplement the finance bill, there is now a halving of the funds available from the state to people with disabilities in public education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112932	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420112939	Thank you. It is the case that there are a great many issues to be dealt with in the pool of rates negotiations. I would say that I respect the assessment and priority given to the rate pool. And it is clear that moving funds from one area to another obviously has consequences for the interested parties. I fully understand that. But I also respect the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113008	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113014	Then I would like to ask the Minister whether this does not indicate that we have an unsustainable practice. When we have such an important area as this and we have funds which, for a very large number of citizens with disabilities, are a condition for their participation in public awareness activities, is it not a problem that the way in which we allocate funds is such that, in this case, half of the funds are funds that do not belong to the Finance Act, but funds that are continually taken into consideration in a pool of rates? Would it not be right to change that practice so that it was not the pool of rates that would be involved in constantly financing an area such as this, but that the necessary money was found in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113056	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113101	Thank you. So, my own party would very much like to take a critical look at the whole question of the pool of rates. How do we organize these things? Is that the right way to do it? So we'd be happy to have that discussion, but I'm sure it's going to take place in a different direction from this one today. In addition to that, however, I would like to say that there are, of course, many ways of obtaining support as a disabled person. We have many different arrangements. After all, an aid scheme is not without significance for the possibility of participating in public awareness activities. This is something that we have carried out in Denmark as the first country in the world. Of course, things need to be clear, and I think this is a very relevant issue to raise. It is probably not only under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister for Culture that we should look at it. However, there are many opportunities for support, and I think that the discussion about the rate pool in general should also take place in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113154	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and I think we will make the agreement that if you want to make brief remarks to a rapporteur, you will stand up here and then I will make sure that traffic is routed in the best way possible. Then it's mr. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113208	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by commending Enhedslisten for having brought this issue to discussion in the Danish Parliament in quotation marks, because it is not a huge matter in monetary terms; we agree entirely with that. However, this is a difficult and big issue, because the more complicated our society becomes, the more barriers we create for precisely the area of disability to be able to meet the demands of society. I'm just thinking of a few things, like... the introduction of more and more technology, more things over the net, NemID etc. as a prerequisite for participating in our community life. There is a group of citizens who have a special need to have a chance to learn in another way, and that is what the public-enlightened effort can do. And we have a great deal of sympathy for that. We also understand that it is the case that we lack an overview of the current functioning of these schemes. We hear the Minister say that there has never been enough money for the task. And that is what we think is right, but do we then spend the money that is in this area in the right way, and do we have to look at whether there are other ways of financing it that we do not have the opportunity to finance through the public awareness efforts? So we would very much like to take the Minister at his word and let the Minister have an overview of how we spend the money on the public awareness campaign for people with disabilities. And then we will be able to discuss in the longer term whether there is a need to see whether funds should be provided. But it's not in this round. Should I make a little criticism of Enhedslisten's proposal, it is that Enhedslisten predescends the solution. However, I would like to have a clear basis on which to make some decisions, and the Minister has promised to provide this, and then it must be the task of the Folketing, together with the current government, to lay the foundations for the efforts we, on the part of society, would like to be able to give this group of citizens, who very much need an extra hand in terms of being able to be an active part of our society. And that is a stated objective. So we take the Minister at his word in order to establish a clear basis. We are not voting in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113511	Thank you, sir. Orla Hav. To the listeners I would say that usually there is more light in the Folketing; it is not the case that we are conducting negotiations in the dark, but we have some technical problems at the moment and therefore there is a little gloomy in the Chamber. But you must be so warmly welcomed. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113542	This proposal is about requiring the government to carry out an analysis of the financial framework needed to ensure the participation of disabled people in public education in accordance with section 44 of the National Education Act. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). It is the municipalities which primarily provide the framework for the public education activity, also for disabled citizens, and therefore, according to the National Education Act, the municipalities also have the opportunity to provide a supplementary grant for adult education for participants with disabilities in relation to teaching on a specific subject. It is described in section 6 of the Education Act. Article 19 (2) and Article 19 (2) 2 on specified purposes in relation to persons with special needs, e.g. disabled. After all, there is no central overview of the extent to which the municipalities provide grants and for what purposes, but for example. According to their websites, Aalborg, Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen have local schemes and pools where, on application, grants are granted for the costs of disabled people. In addition, the law requires municipalities to grant grants according to objective criteria, taking particular account of activities for children and young people and for education, etc. for adults with special needs. The pack has a size of 4 million. kr. A further increase of 3-4 million in the pool was agreed. kr. kr. annual. In the Danish People's Party we think that the lasting financing or the increase in funding of public awareness activities is a matter that can be raised in the financial law negotiations. And, as various disability organisations point out in their letter to the financial rapporteurs and the cultural rapporteurs, they also want it to be a purely financial appropriation. At the same time, they also provide an estimate of how much is involved. So why start an analysis when you know how much money is to be proposed in the financial law negotiations? It is an amount between the actual amount and the amount proposed by disability organisations and, in addition, the pool of rates has increased the pool in several rounds, but, as I said, the initiative was not a priority in the government's pool of rates at this stage. In addition, the municipalities' support for the public awareness area is regulated by the Public Education Act, which provides public funding for the free public awareness activities. In addition, in the field of employment, there is a paper on disability, which is why the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113759	We thank the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113809	Thank you, President. The Left cannot support the proposal. And I should like to say hello to the Conservatives and to say that neither can they. The proposal has an impact on local self-government, which will create a one-way street, which is unnecessary, at the expense of individual municipalities' access to arrangements for which they are free and which adapt to the conditions and challenges that exist. There are differences in scope, content, needs and demand depending on whether it is in Copenhagen or at Frederiksberg or in Vejen near Esbjerg. Then there is also an element in the resolution from the Enhedslisten in relation to the volume of the pot. There we have the approach that it is a matter in the pool of rates negotiations and that there is no de facto market-pooling by targeting funds in resolutions. It belongs at the table where the lots around the rate pool operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113917	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420113927	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers want an analysis of the means of participation by disabled people in public education and a change in administrative practice so that it is easier to understand the means available. In addition, it is also wanted to ensure that sufficient funds are available for the area. As far as I am concerned, there is no need for analysis or for more accessible information. The funds on the financial account mentioned in the proposal can only be opened with an Internet connection, and the Ministry knows the applicant circle of the pool in advance. However, I understand that the Minister says in his speech that one would like to look at this administrative practice in order to make it clearer. That's fine. In relation to the allocation of the necessary funds: I think this is a rather funny wording, because what is necessary is basically a political decision. It is relatively rare for us to see that we set aside some funds and are told that too much money has been set aside. This is often a political decision, that is, what you think is necessary. Ensuring the participation of disabled people in public education seems to me to be a worthy political objective, and I can easily understand a political desire to secure more funds for that purpose, but, as with most others, I have to say that these are negotiations that are being conducted in connection with either the rate pool or the finance law. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114123	Thank you, Mrs Lindahl, and we will move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114129	Thank you very much. Public awareness of adult education and other public awareness activities play a key role in many people with disabilities' lives. It is therefore also unreasonable that it should be so difficult for people with disabilities to find the financial resources required to participate in public awareness activities. There are own costs, which we also heard the Minister mention, which are solely dependent on the disability of the person. For some participants, transport is e.g. a prerequisite for participation, from other access to technical aids such as: telecommunications slings and sign language interpretation, and it is not right that these costs should be borne by the disabled person. Nevertheless, as we heard, the municipalities are not obliged to grant a subsidy. This is clear from section 24 of the National Education Act. 2 that it is the Minister who grants subsidies to the participation of disabled people in public awareness activities. The disabled organisations already pointed out in 2015 that the appropriation should be a purely financial appropriation to cover the costs of disabled people, with the exception that a self-payment should be charged for transport purposes. The estimate for such an appropriation is a framework of 17 million. kr. per years. It is not a very large amount when you consider how much money there is in a financial law. This motion for a resolution responds to the justified request by disability organisations for a financial authorisation and a decree laying down the detailed rules for the application of the framework. Some of the expenses were covered by appropriations from the rate pool until 2016, but the uncertainty associated with having to apply for the rate pool every four years or applying to municipalities for extra money or some of the other schemes that also exist is obviously not conducive to people who already have more than enough to worry about. In addition, as you know, Denmark has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As far as public awareness is concerned, disability organisations refer to Article 30 and to Article 24, which speaks of lifelong learning, and now that I am talking about the Disability Convention, I would like to call for its implementation in Danish legislation so that it becomes binding and the provisions should not be dependent on whether the municipalities or on alternating ministers think that there is room for full compliance with the provisions of the Convention. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for having tabled this resolution, which comes after Enhedslisten has asked a large number of questions on the subject, which unfortunately have not been followed up by action by the government. In fact, I was hoping that the motion for a resolution would make this right. Unfortunately, that is not the case and I regret it. But the alternative is in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114453	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114507	Thank you. Pulten here isn't mobile either. It is not the first Vice-President, nor is it the first Vice-President. Sorry! ) It's okay. I would like to sign the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. I think the proposal itself points to a number of problems concerning people with disabilities in Denmark and their conditions in connection with public education. Very many times we go around talking about how fantastic a society we have in Denmark, with the freedom to choose people's educational circles, in which we are interested with others, and it may well be that we do not agree with the majority, but we still have the opportunity to set up a community of people's education to which a minority subscribes. And then you can work in the field of public education under these conditions, but that obviously requires some means. That is why I think it is good to hear the Minister's reply, because then we have at least received answers to some questions. However, it is also instructive to look at what has actually happened over a number of years in terms of the way in which funds are distributed, under the theme we are working on now, about people with disabilities. Because if you make up the figures, you can say that from 2015 it has been roughly in the order of 10-12 million. kr., and in 2016 also 10-12 million. kr., or how they have now been distributed over a number of years, but in 2017 there are 11.9 million. kr. allocated, and from 2018 onwards there are only 4 million. kr. It is in itself a huge change in the means that come from in here in one way or another. I do not expect a reply from the Minister, because the Minister cannot answer that, but I can appeal to the Minister to take it into account, because everything is a priority, and whether you are sitting with the rate pool or the Finance Act, it is a priority. After all, according to my experience, we have a common culture here in the Danish Parliament that groups that have particular challenges also get a helping hand in those situations where it is difficult for them to cope with it. So it is an appeal to the Minister to take this into his payroll, if I may say so, to try to look at what is possible to prioritise to a more reasonable share. And when I say fair, I just look at the years that have gone ahead, where it has averaged an amount of 10-12 million. kr. Then you can discuss whether it is a real number, but I think that a lot of us would like to discuss it and would like to have a way of dealing with such issues. What are the necessary means, which is the wording used by the motion for a resolution? If I were a minister, I would also ask myself what is meant by the need. But now I am not a minister, I am a member of parliament, and I would very much like to contribute to Enhedslisten's work in getting a little better conditions in this area, and so I would like to contribute by asking: what are we defining as necessary in this context? Well, that's the next step. I therefore hope that we can have a dialogue with the Minister, not in the Chamber of Parliament, but outside the Chamber, at a time when this is relevant. So, on this basis, I do support the SF's proposal to highlight that the issue is a concern of the Radical Left and that we would like to help find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114852	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420114921	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting forward this very sensible motion for a resolution. Denmark, of course, has a special obligation to guarantee citizens with disabilities access to participate in public awareness activities not only from a general human point of view, but also because we have committed ourselves through the UN Disability Convention. It points out both our commitment to ensuring our citizens with disabilities full and effective participation and inclusion in society and accessibility. Therefore, it also makes good sense, as proposed by Enhedslisten, not only to analyse the financial framework needed to ensure citizens with disabilities access to public education, but also to enter into dialogue with beneficiaries so that a new administrative practice can be described in a notice. For this reason, the SF also supports the proposal, despite the fact that there will of course be additional costs associated with the proposal if all municipalities are to be able to support transport in the future through section 117 of the Services Act. The latter, as the authors themselves point out, is a crucial problem in terms of participation for a great many, probably because it is a can-do clause. If the municipalities are to be charged extra transport costs, they must probably be paid for the cost. However, as I said, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115026	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115034	Thank you. I am, in fact, a little puzzled by the receipt of the proposal. Having said from the floor of the Minister and several rapporteurs that there is no need for a closer analysis of this area, I have to say that I am simply puzzled. I don't know if I'm upset, but there's a letter from the Landsforeningen LEV that was sent along with the application to bet pool funds 2018-2021, and it recommends that money from the rate pool continues to be provided, and it is written that if it lapses with effect from 1 January 2018, this offer will no longer be available for any part of LEV's target group. I wonder whether it does not call for an analysis of what this problem is created by removing half the funds that the state has had so far for this area, and when there are people with development disabilities and other far-reaching mental disabilities who are no longer able to participate in public education activities. Doesn't that call us analyzing what the problem is? I have to say, I'm full of wonder. It's not a proposal... despite Mrs. Marianne Jelved's indictment... that will pour billions of dollars out of the box. It is a proposal in which we are talking about a reduction from 8 million in state funds. kr. to 4 million kr. I simply find it strange that there is no greater sensitivity. Participation in folk-enlightening activities is of course too many people with disabilities especially in the way that it can partly give them new knowledge and new knowledge and learning in committing themselves or becoming better at mastering their own lives. Sir. Orla Hav addressed the complex challenges that many people with disabilities may have to face in the whole of the brave technological world, i.e. being able to serve, for example. Easy ID like the rest of us. In addition, however, this group also has a very important factor in relation to the social life of its citizens. As a citizen with disabilities, it is different how you arrange your housing conditions, but I am sure that there are many people with disabilities who live in accommodation offers for whom these offers are a very, very important part of their social life. It may be the only opportunity they have to get outside the accommodation offer and experience a relationship with other people and thus experience a relationship that breaks with the association they have with others in their accommodation offer. So I would say that I think it is incredibly important to give citizens with disabilities a not only formal but also a real opportunity to participate in education under the People's Education Act, and I think that with the need there is, it is reasonable that we enter into a joint analysis of what is really needed to respond to the wishes and needs of this group. The fact that, over the last nine years, the state budget has been divided up has, as such, only constituted a minor problem. The administrative problem has already been mentioned and, as I said earlier, I am pleased that the Minister will look at creating greater predictability in the flow of funds in the long term, in other words, if new funds are to come. Because it is difficult to handle planning. I would say that I think this is a problem and I fully agree with what the Minister is saying, so that we cannot solve all the fundamental problems about the rate pool in this matter. It is not my business either, but I would just like to illustrate that it is therefore problematic that we have divided part of the costs in relation to people with disabilities, and now also specifically in this area. Is the problem real? Yes, that is so real, because it is people who, because of their disability, cannot transport themselves, and in the comments to the motion for a resolution we have mentioned an example of the fact that, for a citizen, this could be an additional cost of about DKK 10,000. I do not know whether it is possible to talk about discrimination against people with disabilities, but that is to say, it is quite obvious that this means that there are people with disabilities who are not in a position to take part in these offers on an equal footing with other citizens. So we are sorry about the announcement from the Minister and from the government parties and the Danish People's Party. On the other hand, I am very pleased with the comments that have been made by the SF and by the Alternative and Radical Left, and also with the kindness which, Mr President, has been shown by the rapporteur. Orla Hav has shown in terms of analyzing this problem, even there was no immediate connection to Enhedslisten's proposal. We'll have to find other ways. I simply do not think we can be familiar with leaving this problem unsolved. There is the real problem in relation to the people who are affected by it here, and one can say that there is also the formal problem that it is, I think, another example of what it means, also in relation to how we actually interpret it, since Denmark has now acceded to the UN Disability Convention, which is intended to ensure equal opportunities for citizens with disabilities. So, how do we really live up to it in practice? I regret that there is no majority in favour of the proposal. I think that the parties that have expressed a positive attitude to this must jointly discuss how to rectify it, because we simply cannot be familiar with the citizens who are affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115653	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, and as the Minister for Culture has asked to speak, we are taking another round. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115701	Thank you. I will need to hear the rapporteur's speech here just to make something clear. Because it might sound as if the parties that do not support the resolution do not want us to support people with disabilities in Denmark, and there I would like to make it clear that it wants the government and that it wants my own party, and it is my impression that there is a very broad desire for this throughout the Danish Parliament. But I just think you have to have a respect for how we work in the Folketing. When I express myself as I express myself, it is because I respect the political decisions that are being made. A decision has been taken on a financial law and a decision has been taken on the rate pool, and here opinions can be broken, but at some point a decision is taken, and there are two parts to this resolution. On the one hand, there is the desire to initiate an analysis, and on the other hand, the proposal is so that what is described as the necessary means are set aside, and I think that belongs somewhere else. We may disagree with that, but I would just like to point out and stress here in conclusion that the desire to support people with disabilities, including in their access to public education, is present and that there are decisions that limit it in some areas, I think we must respect the political majority behind it. But the discussion is, of course, important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115824	Thank you. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Jakob Silverhøj would like a brief comment at first. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115832	I have to say that it can sound a little hollow to say that everyone is concerned about securing the economy for this group. One can at least say quite literally that it has been a free round of the agreement in the pool of rates not to allocate money to this. Perhaps in relation to the Minister's last remarks, I think that this might call for a slightly different approach. It is quite true that this has meant that the necessary funds should be allocated. The analysis itself is of course most interesting if we intend to act politically on it, but at least I think that the Minister could have responded to the wish to analyse this problem in greater detail. Then we could have had a forward-looking discussion and perhaps also discuss what each of us is thinking are the necessary means in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115934	As we have a brief comment here, it requires a reply from the Minister. Yeah, it's a little confusing, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115941	Thank you. I actually thought of it more as a comment. I note, of course, that there is a disappointment that we will not initiate the analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115952	I understand Mrs Marianne Jelved's point of order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420115957	Yes, it is because I would actually like to extend a hand to the Minister for Culture that I ask for the floor here. For the Minister for Culture stressed that it was important for us here to understand that the Minister had made some agreements, and those agreements then translate into certain figures that we are discussing today. There, of course, I would like to stress that I respect the agreements that are behind the figures that are here, and that is why my message was, in fact, how, when there are some new opportunities for making some other agreements, we are jointly going to say in some way or other: how can we argue seriously and objectively that there should be more funding for this area? We can do some preparatory work there. The parties in here today have indicated that they support the Enhedslisten's proposals in one way or another and are positive about it, and we can then jointly try to create some questions that can identify needs that we can categorize as needs, and then perhaps from this autumn we can start negotiating more money. So that's the way I think you could go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120108	Thank you. The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120113	Thank you for that comment. I am, of course, happy to answer any questions that may be put to the Minister for Culture. I also assume that it might be appropriate to ask some questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Education, etc. So I'm happy to respond with what I can contribute. For, of course, when we are about to take new decisions in the autumn, we should be happy to take them on as enlightened a basis as possible. But a definite analysis of this area, I don't think, is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120142	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would suggest that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120157	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120220	Since our usual rapporteur in this area, Mr. Magnus Heunicke, unable to give a meeting to this meeting, I have promised to be a temp. I've tried to be a temp before, and the High Thing has to go with that. Our rapporteur's speech on L 220 says that we support free municipalities. We have done this in the past, and we are doing it this time when we have entered this third round of applications. On the social democratic side, we have a strong desire to debureaucratise and simplify rules in the public sector. It must be the case that rigid procedural requirements can be removed and replaced with greater confidence in our public employees. Here, free municipalities are making a positive contribution to achieving this objective, and that is in the light of today's proposals. With the proposals, it will be among other things. Firstly, it is easier for municipalities to prevent exposure; secondly, it helps to improve the availability of housing for young people for integration; thirdly, it helps to ensure a more coherent approach to psychiatry; and fourthly, it minimises the documentation on the cutting-card system for the elderly. All in all, we are changing 14 areas of legislation so that new attempts can be made. It is clear that, of course, we are addressing the concerns expressed by, among others. LO and Danske Handicap organisations, seriously and seriously, and we will therefore follow whether the attempts are escaping with the intention of the proposals. We must ensure a more flexible framework, not a reduction in, for example, the employment effort. However, we should not overshadow the fact that we are backing the bill. We in the Socialist Group will follow closely the new free-Communist attempts in the hope that they will show positive results so that they can eventually lead to regulatory simplification and de-bureaucraticisation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120437	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. We move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120444	Thank you for that, President. Then we'll deal with the third round of free municipalities experiments. In the Danish People's Party, we are very much in favour of free municipalities' attempts, only the attempts are first of all attempts and, secondly, temporary and, last but not least, the main aim is to make things easier and better for citizens, and never happens with the sole aim of saving money or reducing conditions for citizens. The aim must clearly be to raise the level of service or to reduce bureaucratic workflows so as to free resources from a heavy and bureaucratic system, and then to move resources to citizen-friendly welfare and warm hands. When you read the experiments, you can sometimes get the suspicion that the municipalities are mostly wearing the economic glasses, and of course we keep an eye on this in the Danish People's Party. This round of 14 free municipalities is yet another mixed country trade, which is spreading across many areas of territory and legislation. That is why I come back with a call to the Minister to divide the bill into several legislative proposals, so that each trial package covers, for example, only one ministerial area. In the Danish People's Party, we are always aware of the legal certainty of citizens and that citizens in a free municipality are not put at a disadvantage than others, not even in terms of redress. We have some points of attention to which we will be asking a little more in the committee's work. These include locked outer doors, own-home surveillance, clipping card systems, psychiatry and changes to the rules in the field of integration. The last few weeks' debate on the protection of citizens' data has shown that it is now easier for hackers to get into these systems when they start using more technology at home too. That is why, of course, we would also like to ask a few questions about the logging and monitoring of citizens, i.e. who has access to data from this monitoring, and whether the systems used are sound and safe, etc. However, we are pleased that in several of the experiments the Minister wishes to carry out an external evaluation through VIVE. It provides a certain amount of security. Finally, as I started, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of free municipalities' attempts, but also, perhaps, to say that we think that there are a great many free municipalities' attempts at the moment, and that perhaps we should just put the brakes on now and get an overview of the experiments that are under way and get a status on what should be attempted and what might be done. But with these words, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120733	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120738	Thank you, President. The Left can support the proposal and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party and say that they can also support the proposal. I can do so with reference to the opinions of the two previous rapporteurs on the draft law. The intention is to release the municipalities so that they have no excuse for not creating efficiency, with reference to the legislation, hand in hand with citizen-close, good service. That intention will only benefit everyone if we are really keen to get picked up on what works and what doesn't work. We must not be pale to recognise that there may be an attempt at free municipalities where we are fortunate enough to have the good experience that it does not work. It's also a learning. But we must then, on the other hand, be razor-sharp on what works, and subsequently get it implemented in and widely used and rolled out to all municipalities. Because in this way we will have the full value of what is the intention of the free municipalities' attempts: better service experiences for citizens, more efficient operation of the public sector and more focus on results and not on the process of roll-out of the legislative measures that come from the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120918	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420120933	Thank you for that, President. The Liberal Alliance is also quite confident about the proposal made by the Minister; we are generally quite confident about the Minister in this area. In addition to being a good proposal, it also sends out a signal of something important: increased local self-government. Now it's called community networks. In fact, it is quite a long way back in time that attempts to free the municipalities were made to free the municipalities more freely. This is also the path we take in the clusters that are, and here you get, wasn't it 14 new areas? I just want to point out that the objective of this must be, if otherwise the results are good, that it can then be said that in these areas the central rules are being removed, so that the municipalities decide more for themselves. It could be said that in the ideal world of genuine local self-government, free municipalities should, of course, result in municipalities having much more freedom to organise work, grants, etc., so that citizens really should be aware of what politicians they chose for the city councils, so that they would have to do more than administer rules from Christiansborg, but really answer to citizens in relation to what they offer and the opportunities they have. So this is the long perspective that this could have, and with this aim it is good to extend the experimental arrangements, but we should like to make sure that the experiments are used for something if they come out well, i.e. to release the municipalities so that they have greater local autonomy. So if it has ignored anyone's attention: we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121121	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121128	Thank you very much. Now, the alternative always votes for experiments with a reasonable content, even if there may be knots and herbs that have not grown in our garden. The advantage is that you can test some things, including things you don't like as a starting point, because you can just not continue them if they don't bounce out properly, or you can accept them if you are positively surprised. Now it is rare for me to commend bourgeois ministers, but when I came to the Minister for Employment and suggested that they should take an experiment with cash benefits without counterclaims and free cashiers into their negotiations right now, this is about setting people free and doing it very, very consistently, he said that he didn't believe that would have the right effect, but that is why he wouldn't rule out giving me the opportunity to show that I was right or wrong. I like to experience this starting point across the Folketing and ideological considerations, which is why we are also ready to go very far in giving things a chance, even if they do not seem ideologically right from our point of view to start with. But there are also things that I am not ready to vote in favour on a stand-by basis. There are a lot of good things in this proposal: there's this new pool of municipal experiments, there's good things in the psychiatric area, and there's good things in the residential area. I had the opportunity yesterday to discuss this with the rapporteur who will be here in a moment, Kirsten Normann Andersen, who also pointed out some things that I really think are wise, for example. within the point of use of personal alarm and directional systems as well as situational video, audio and motion monitoring for citizens who are the target audience but who are not resident in a foster home or in any local authority. This initiative has been taken by some of the networks within the municipal experiment which are concerned with better management of expenditure in the specialized social area, and I think it is important that, in order to make it safer for citizens who are in a situation where monitoring could make it safer, it should not be done on the grounds of austerity. I am a little interested in discussing this further. In addition, it goes into some negotiations that we are having right now in the Ministry of Social Affairs, about the use of force, and I cannot, of course, refer to those negotiations, but I just need to find out how it interferes with them and how immediate acceptance of this will affect those negotiations. And then I also need to know how extensive this is. I need to learn more about such surveillance, among other things. video surveillance, because such surveillance can be too private. It is not something that means that I have taken a total position right now on how we are going to vote here, but it is at least some things that I want to have drilled out and clarified, that is how this is going to work. And there I'm actually going to agree with DF that sometimes it would be nice to get that sign a little apart, because it might be that we think all of this is good, except for this part. So if we could vote separately on it, it would also give us a greater chance to vote for the rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121458	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, it is the case that there is a brief remark, since the technique does not work, we ask Carl Holst to come to the platform for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121508	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for the always reflective considerations. What made me ask for the floor anyway was that I almost got the impression that welfare technology solutions are to be regarded as something that per year. definition is a saving or resource limitation or means a lack of human care; the reference from the rapporteur to the number of employees. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that welfare technology solutions can be the opposite, both human care, efficiency, but also a service experience of getting better content in one's life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121610	Sir. Torsten Gejl, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121613	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst to give me the opportunity to confirm that we think so very, very much in the alternative. We expect a great deal of technological progress in terms of making citizens safer and creating plenty and plenty of new opportunities for citizens not to get hurt because of dementia or all sorts of other things. It just has to be in a respectful way, a dignified way, and what makes me want to go one more round before I vote for it is that the starting point right here in this municipal network is savings, and I don't think that's the best starting point for making citizens safe. It may turn out that this is a good idea, and then I will vote for it, but I will have bored it out first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121655	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Carl Holst the word? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121705	Thank you. SF's approach to free municipalities always relies on what can be done to free municipalities and regions for the benefit and benefit of citizens and, above all, the most vulnerable citizens. That is why it would have been helpful if the government had split up the proposal so that the individual elements could have been dealt with in more detail. Because in the present proposal for free municipalities there are both roses and thistles. I will not go through all the elements of the proposal, but just make a few individual cuts that show why we think something is good and something else is bad and why we may ultimately be in doubt whether we can vote in favour of the proposal unless we in committee can clarify or perhaps completely remove individual proposals. On the one hand, we find it very exciting that in the Region of Southern Denmark and the Region of Central Jutland, in cooperation with the municipalities, attempts will be made to create more coherence in the treatment offers in the field of psychiatry. On the other hand, we think it is a little premature to make a series of free municipalities attempts in the field of force when we are currently in the middle of negotiations on amendments to Chapter 24 of the Service Act on the use of force. I also think it seems a little suspicious that these experiments should be carried out primarily under the free community hat, called the Free Community network.Better management of expenditure in the specialized social area. The use of force must not be based on the need to save on municipal expenditure. It must always be based on the need to care for the individual citizen with a cognitive or mental disability, and if the use of force can be avoided, for example through educational measures, it must always be the way forward. But of course it costs. In conclusion, I would just like to say that in committee we also need to clarify the reservations that both the LO and the FTF have in relation to Section 9d on the issue of exemption from re-examination during the 12 month period, so that no sick citizens are caught. Despite our reservations, we shall, as always, enter the next committee without prejudice, but as the proposal stands at the moment, we will not be able to vote in favour of it. So I hope we can change it and remove the timelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121925	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420121935	There's an electronic breakdown, so unfortunately the platform can't get down to a natural height, but it's gonna be okay. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the constructive debate we have had here today. I think there have been many good speeches and, of course, I also thank you for the fact that the draft law already represents a majority. Then there are a number of questions that have been raised by the rapporteurs from the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party, and I am of course very interested in engaging in dialogue on them towards the third reading of the bill. It is true that we have a tradition that these proposals will be carried through by the very broad majority of the two proposals that I myself have had, respectively with eight parties for the first proposal and seven parties for the second proposal, and it will be my ambition to try to get as many parties as possible in relation to this, because I also think that we all have an interest in continuing this debureaucratisation agenda, this free community agenda, so that we can get the good ideas in play, and we can test both what is good and what is bad, as Mr. Torsten Gejl said. I myself have been involved in the first attempt by the free community, which was while I was a minister, and I was involved in setting something in motion about buying-in services, and it is still a political abomination for me to imagine that it would be carried out at national level, but it could be that I was pleasantly surprised when I saw the results of the experiments, if they came to the conclusion that it was actually something good and not something bad, as I imagined. It could also be that there were others who were negatively surprised and saw that it was something bad and not something good, but no matter whether it is one or the other, or whether we all just grow firm in our prejudices, it certainly doesn't hurt to have things tested so that we can see how the effects are out in reality. There are several who mention these questions about going in and looking at welfare technology in terms of making experiments, all this with external doors, alarms, etc., and I fully understand some of the concerns that may be related to personal freedom. It may be the right to privacy, it may be the question of monitoring, it may be the question of logging. I would like to invite those who have said that they have some concerns there, to some dialogue about, so that we can try to clarify the issues. If there is a need for further demarcation in relation to that, we must also engage in a dialogue on it in order to make it land in a sensible way. There are also a few other proposals that have been put forward, and of course we have to take them in different contexts. Something may be clarified with some written answers to some questions, and other things require a physical dialogue. So just one comment on the alternative and the Socialist People's Party in relation to the fact that it is under a free community network that the economics also have to be looked at. I therefore agree that if the sole aim is to save money, with the result that the citizens receive a worse service, it is not in itself a good idea, but if the point is to do something that is good for the citizens and that is, moreover, cheaper for taxpayers, then I think it is a very good idea. That is, of course, what I believe is the intention of those who have sought. I have no idea that there is any intention other than that. But, as I have said, if it requires further enclosure or explanation, I think we should take it. So just one more curious thing: I thought it was quite nice that Mr. Carl Holst could speak on behalf of the VKR parties. For those who are historically interested, it's always fun to think back. Thank you, however, for the debate, dialogue and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420122329	Thank you, Minister. Then the debate on free community networks is over. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180420122345	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 April 2018, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
