ParlaMint-DK_20180316100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jacob Mark (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Bill no. L 188 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Special Offers of Primary Education for Certain Foreign Children and Young People. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on quality assurance of specially organized youth education (tuition) and the creation of an associated extension to training). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution supplementing the normal punishment for vandalism with payment for the restoration of the vandalism), motion for a resolution No. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the fact that an unconditional temporary expulsion judgment does not automatically grant access to Denmark when the period of time has expired) and motion for a resolution No. Β 99 (Proposal for a resolution on the withdrawal of passport from convicted paedophiles). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Request no. F 25 (What initiatives does the government intend to take to limit and regulate non-medical genital mutilation among boys and young men under the age of 18, to avoid permanent damage and to ensure that these citizens themselves have had an influence on a decision on genital mutilation?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100134	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100144	Thank you for the floor. With L 164 we are continuing to implement an agreement in which the Social Democratic Party is already part of, so we can, of course, support it as a starting point. The aim of the bill is to establish a new, strong supervision, the Supply Authority, which will be called, which will take over the tasks of the current Energy Inspectorate in relation to the electricity, gas and heating sectors. We can also read with great satisfaction in the consultation answers that there is broad support for the legislative proposal of those entitled to a hearing who have chosen to give their opinion. However, a few comments are worth mentioning in the consultations. I am thinking of the comments from Dansk Industri, Dansk Energi, The Association of Advisory Engineers and Ørsted A/S, which points out that the purpose clause for the new Supply Agency is more consumer-oriented than the one today for the Danish Energy Agency. We have read it with interest, and for us it is very important that low prices are not the only consideration, which might well be thought there. But also the issue of security of supply, the environment and health is an important factor, and we actually assume that there is broad agreement on this. It is therefore worth considering, in the forthcoming committee's proceedings, a more thorough examination of that part of the paragraph of purpose. With these brief comments we look forward to the further progress of L 164. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100320	Thank you. And then it's sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100329	Thank you. This bill is part of the implementation of an agreement of which the Danish People's Party is not part, but which has been concluded between the Government and the Radical Left, the Social Democrats and the SF. We can certainly agree with the content, because it is quite reasonable. In short, the current Danish Energy Agency has to change its name to the Supply Authority, and it may not be that mouthy. But sometimes some people think that a new name can make things even better. We have now noted in particular that the content of what the new supervision should do is also slightly changed. We believe that it is certainly a step in the right direction that more consideration should be given to consumers and that more analyses should be carried out as a whole and that we should help to develop the area of energy and supply in a better dialogue with the Ministry, so that we can help to develop the Danish supply sector for the benefit of all parties. I have also looked at the answers that have been received, and it is generally also very positive impressions that you get when you read them. Therefore, after reading both the bill and the consultation answers, I must say that there is nothing negative to say about the bill. So, although it is a legislative proposal and an agreement that the Danish People's Party is not part of, we recognise that it has a sensible content and therefore we expect to vote in favour of the proposal when we come to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100516	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100522	Thank you for that, President. I am not going to repeat what the bill is about, other than saying that this is the framework for a new supply monitoring system that replaces the Energy Regulatory Authority. The proposal is then the implementation of the otherwise very broad agreement we had made on 4 October 2017 for a strong supply supervision, supported by the Radical Left, the Social Democracy and the SF and then, of course, the government. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party also supports the bill itself here. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100603	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100617	The whole thing about making a law on the Supply Authority is part of an agreement where Enhedslisten, like Dansk Folkeparti, is not part of it. If you have to look at the positive effects of the bill, you give supervision a separate law and you make it clear that it is not just about electricity supply. Previously it was under the Electricity Act, which was a little inappropriate. After all, it is also a question of what kind of processing times we can look forward to in the future. The green transition is mentioned as one of the things that supervision must work for, however, only as an equal point and a cost-effective one, as well as increased advice to the Minister, which is positive, as long as it does not undermine independence. On the negative side, it can be said that the Danish Energy Agency previously had an independent board, where the Danish Supply Agency will only have an independent director. The formulation of green conversion, where there is a cost-effective green conversion, may as well be an obstacle as an incentive for expansion, especially when it is at the same level as other points. On the consultation answers, I think it is interesting that there are, among other things, some of them. is a consultation response from Dansk Energi, which wants a more visionary purpose clause. It could focus on dialogue with consumers and industry, development, innovation as well as market support and necessary investments driven by the green transition for the long-term benefit of consumers and society. I really think that we could discuss in committee whether a better provision could be found for the purpose of further work. I also think it could be important to discuss the extent to which consumers will be heard forward in relation to what we have now, where there is, in fact, a board of directors with a number of representatives. So these are the two things that we want to discuss in committee before we finally take a position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100831	Thank you. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316100837	Thank you. After all, good rapporteurs have explained very well the content of the draft law before me, and of course the Liberal Alliance can also support the draft law, but I would like to make a few more general comments on the subject. After all, the supply sector in Denmark is largely composed of small natural monopolies, where consumers really do not have a choice when it comes to deciding where they want their heat, their electricity or their gas from. This means that the utilities do not really have any incentive to streamline and innovate and that consumers may find it very difficult to see through price levels and whether the quality of their delivery is good enough. That is why it is also very important that we regulate these natural monopolies politically so that we ensure that the proven efficiency of the sector is redeemed for the benefit of consumers in the form of lower prices. How much this efficiency potential is, we can then discuss, and we can also discuss how best to regulate the sector, but we cannot discuss that we need to keep a close eye on whether the regulation we are now making works too. Otherwise, we will not be able to react politically afterwards if the regulation does not turn out to work or if it turns out that the regulation we have imposed on the industry simply turns into a bureaucratic monster which only contributes to the employment of academic staff. Then I would like to say that, as rapporteur for the supply sector, I lack more independent input in general on how we actually regulate the supply sector in the best way possible from the political point of view. Perhaps it would be appropriate to have a research institution, a think tank or something similar, which could, in a completely independent manner, offer this 1,000-kroner question, I would call it how natural monopolies are regulated in the best way possible. All in all, however, it is very good that we should now strengthen the supervision of the supply sector, so that we can respond more politically to the shortcomings that will naturally occur when individual companies have or have a monopoly on the supply of a particular product. So, as I said from the very beginning, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101134	There is one comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101138	Now the rapporteur said that consumers do not have a choice when it comes to electricity, heat and gas. It is true on the district heating side that if you are connected to a particular district heating supply, you are connected to it, but we have had a liberalisation of the electricity and gas sector, so that the consumer can choose to have his electricity and gas delivered from another company and be free to choose whether to trade in another electricity trading company or gas company. There it is, of course, just the network tariff, which is then defined from a geographical area. So what the rapporteur has said on the floor is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101218	Now I think that in this context we can share the correct thing in it. I fully agree with the questioner, but there is, of course, one can say, and as the questioner himself notes, in his remarks, 'natural monopolies', if only on parts of it at least, and on the other parts it is in relation to distribution and tariff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101245	Are there any more brief comments? No. Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101252	Thank you. After all, the main purpose of this bill is to establish a new supply monitoring system, and that could be a good idea. If we are sceptical about this proposal in the alternative, it is because we can see from several of the consultation answers that this proposal will create less independence and less expert orientation, i.e. less competence in this supervision. We think this is the wrong way to go, because we are currently building a very complex energy system with more and more players and more and more types of sources involved in this system, and that is why it is unfortunate that we think we are going that way and creating less independence and less competence. It is supported by the industry, by several of the trade associations and also by the energy monitoring that is today. So we are sceptical about this proposal so far, but of course we would like to discuss in committee how to improve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101402	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101409	Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal to set up a supply monitoring system, and as several rapporteurs have examined, it is being extended so that it applies not only to electricity but to all areas. When we sat and made the agreement, there was a discussion about how much green conversion should fill, and it is of course no secret that it was one of the things that was important for among others. Radical Left, but also for several of the other parties who said that it was very clear in the agreement that green conversion is a task. And to do it cost-effectively is reasonable. You don't have to choose the most expensive model, but of course you have to have a holistic view that we are converting an entire energy system and that there can be more consideration, both that you have to ensure security of supply, that you have to ensure green energy and that you have to ensure that the systems play together. That's why you don't always have to choose the cheapest model, even if you're cost-conscious. So I actually think it's a really good balance. Money must be managed, but there must also be a very clear focus on green conversion, and the two things are not necessarily mutually exclusive. And that is a good radical position. In addition, it has been important for us in the Radical Left to get the right professional skills into the Supply Authority, that is, that there was the right professionalism and that it was not such a desk work, but that it was actually people who really knew the sector and that there was also close contact with the sector. It has all become part of the agreement and the bill so that we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101542	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further and, as it does not appear that the Socialist People's Party is here, it is the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101552	Thank you. Bill 164 refers, as previous rapporteurs have mentioned, to the establishment of the Supply Inspectorate. With L 164 the organisation of supervision is changed, so the Supply Authority will be led by an independent director. And the bill translates part of the political agreement between the government, Radical, Social Democracy and the SF on a strong supply supervision. I think that the most important thing in this is that the Supply Agency should look after consumers' interests in the electricity, gas and heat sectors by working for high efficiency, low prices, safe and stable supply and cost-effective green conversion and technology development. After all, supervision is part of a closer dialogue with the industry, consumer organisations and other stakeholders about their work, and a contact committee can then be set up with which the Supply Authority can discuss relevant issues. The industry and consumers must be consulted when we sow seeds for the supply sector of the future. The Supply Control Authority is involved in a close dialogue with the Ministry on the development of the sector and, within the framework of their independence, is required to contribute to regulatory development in this area. That is also very important. And then the knowledge of supervision must be taken into account when making tracks for the supply sector in the future. Finally, it is important that we increase the transparency of the sector and thus create the best possible conditions for investing in the sector so that companies can develop. The Conservative People's Party agrees to bill 164.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101749	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316101758	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive support for the draft law. The supply sector is of great importance to the economy of ordinary Danes. An average household spends 37,000 kroner each year. on supply services. At the same time, the supply sector is one of the cornerstones of the green transition and development towards a more circular economy. As politicians, therefore, we have a responsibility to ensure that consumers do not pay unnecessarily much for their supply, and we have a responsibility to ensure that in the supply sector, their operations and business are organised so as to pursue effective, green and innovative solutions. A prerequisite for us to have an efficient supply sector that delivers high-quality services to consumers is strong and effective supervision. Therefore, the government, together with the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party and the SF, concluded an agreement in autumn 2017 to strengthen the supervision of the electricity, gas and heating sector. The draft law establishes a new strong supply monitoring system to take over the responsibility of the current energy regulator for the electricity, gas and heat sectors. The Supply Authority will have an important role as a consumer watchdog and will work for high efficiency, low prices, a secure and stable supply and efficient green conversion and technology development. With the bill, we are changing the organisation of supervision in order to strengthen the decision-making capacity of supervision and to equip supervision for the increased tasks they have gradually been given, among other things. to ensure an effective internal market for electricity and gas in the EU. At the same time, we establish the framework for a close dialogue with the industry and consumer organisations on their work and the development of the sector. We do, among other things. by setting up a contact committee with which the Supply Inspectorate can discuss relevant issues. The industry and consumers must be consulted when we sow seeds for the supply sector of the future. As a managing authority, supervision of regulation is faced every day and has a natural close contact with companies. Monitoring therefore has a unique insight into how regulation works in practice and can contribute valuable knowledge if there are rules that do not work as intended. That is why we also provide a clear framework for continuous analysis of the sector by the Supply Authority and its involvement in the regulatory work. This must ensure that the knowledge of supervision is taken into account when we lay the tracks for the supply sector forward-looking. At the same time, it must increase the transparency of the sector and thus create the best possible conditions for investing in the sector so that companies can constantly innovate and develop. The development of the supply sector is moving rapidly. Solutions that are competitive and appropriate today can be out-dated by new solutions and new business models tomorrow. Technological development, digitalisation and automation create new opportunities across all sectors, including the supply sector. It makes new demands on the way we think about regulation. The government and the parties behind the agreement therefore agree that in the long term efforts should be made to increase the framework legislation of the supply sector and that supervision should have a greater responsibility for implementing the technical rules in this area within a statutory policy framework. It must ensure flexibility in regulation so that the rules can be quickly adapted to new framework conditions. That is why the draft law here is only the first step on a longer journey. We will also look forward on how supervision can be strengthened, how regulation can be made more flexible and how we can best equip ourselves for a future that offers many opportunities in the area of supply, both for consumers and for companies. I consider this exercise to be part of the cornerstone of renewing and guaranteeing the future of the supply sector for the benefit of consumers. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking you for the interest that has been expressed in the legislative proposal. I look forward to continuing the discussions in committee and, with those comments, I would ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316102231	Thank you, Minister. And no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316102247	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316102308	Thank you, Mr President. L 165 is a technically very heavy legislative proposal in which many different subject areas are mixed together. We are talking in the legislative proposal both about the development of electricity security, the implementation of an EU regulation on system operation and system planning of the electricity grid, and then we have also just taken a little with regard to increased control of the energy savings scheme and the distribution of roles in relation to the handling of electricity consumers directly connected to the transmission network. This means that we have to keep our tongues very straight when we deal with it, just as it is very important to delve into the consultation answers, which are quite comprehensive and which show that this is a legislative proposal that is important for the industry and that these are important technical changes for the actors in the electricity market. In the consultations we have noticed in particular that it is pointed out from several quarters that there should be openness and transparency in the political process in setting the level of security of supply. I do not think the Minister fully answers that in the consultation note, so we should focus on that in the further work. How does the Minister intend to set the level of our security of supply? This is one of the questions, and we in the Socialist Group will seek to deepen it in the further examination of the committee. On the whole, however, we in the Social Democratic Party are very much in favour of the draft law and we look forward to the further work of the Committee on L 165. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316102451	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316102506	As the previous rapporteur said, the draft law here consists of a number of technical things, but also, it might be said, of a bag of mixed candy of very different things in the field of energy. At least that's how far we agree. What we in the Danish People's Party think is one of the most important things in the bill is that the rules on electricity security are now being changed. I am thinking in particular of the fact that, where Energy Network as a state company now sets the level of security of electricity supply, the draft law lays down that in future the responsibility will be placed directly with the Minister. It will thus be a direct political issue and therefore also an issue which can well be discussed here in the Danish Parliament. All other things being equal, we think it is good that this is going to be a political issue, because the security of electricity supply means that it is translated into ordinary Danish, how often we have to live with blackouts. Because it is the case that when we replace our production apparatus of electricity from having been based on fossil fuels, where you have been able to control directly, when to produce, and how much, and switch to producing our electricity from wind and from sun, then we get a production that depends on how the wind blows and how the sun shines. This may prove to be a problem in the longer term, because unless you store the power on batteries, the power needs to be used at the same time as it is produced, and it is not always that it blows, or that the sun shines right at the time when the Danes use the most power. So this is actually an aspect that we in the Danish People's Party have been problematizing for a number of years, namely that the old plants, where electricity production could be managed optimally, are increasingly phased out in favour of an electricity system based on the weather, which therefore also produces less when it is still and when the sun is not shining. This has been problematized by DF for some years, when we have just pointed out that if you continue in the direction you have gone in, you will come to a time when you will experience more frequent blackouts and we alone will have to rely on our neighbouring countries to sell us some power. I have to say that when I have made that point over the years, people have laughed a little and not taken it seriously, and it has been said that our neighbouring countries have plenty of capacity, so they will just sell us some power when we need it. However, it has to be said that our neighbouring countries, such as Germany and Sweden, are moving more and more towards renewable energy, and so they do not just have a surplus capacity to sell off to Denmark. As you can see in Energinet's forecasts, we must look forward to more and more interruptions in the future because of this problem, which I have mentioned, and which is why we in the Danish People's Party at least think it is good that in future we will have a political responsibility for our security of electricity supply so that we can have a political discussion about what is an acceptable level. Because it has to be said that we in Denmark have got used to the fact that there is always power in the outlet. It is just not self-evident in the future, nor is it used to in our neighbouring countries. So it is certainly a good thing that the draft law places political responsibility here. We do not have so many objections to the other elements of the draft law. There is such a pure technicality in relation to who is to make the direct measurement of the power of the few consumers directly connected to the transmission network. It is only a matter of 25 electricity consumers, but it is of course also good to put in place how responsibility is distributed to them. Finally, there is also an element that in future the energy companies will be required to collate information on realised energy savings so as to ensure that these energy savings are not counted twice, i.e. that no double reports have been made and that aid is distributed in several instances wrongly. So it is also a good thing that it is addressed. With these comments, however, I must say that we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the content of the draft law and that we expect to vote 'yes' at the third reading. However, as I have said, we are concerned about the prospects for more blackouts in the future, but we are positive about a political responsibility being placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103002	Thank you. There is a question or comment from Mr. Per Husted, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103007	Thank you. I was very pleased with the rapporteur's focus on security of supply. We may then disagree on how this should be resolved, but I asked a question in my rapporteur's speech just how the Minister thought the level of our security of supply should be fixed in the future. And there I was pleased that the Danish People's Party supports that this is an area that we should focus very much on. So I'm not so negative about it, and I don't see why we're getting more blackouts in the country. I think that our talented companies have been able to develop a technology that makes it no challenge. That is more of a comment, and I am pleased that we agree to focus on our security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103055	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103056	Thank you for your comment on Mr. Per Husted. We are very much in agreement that we want to avoid blackouts, and I think the whole parliament agrees on that. But we just have to be aware that we are putting ourselves in a situation where they are becoming more and more frequent, whether you like it or not, because of the way we have put our supply together. So it is good that we get the political attention to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103123	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103125	The rapporteur presents it as if it is a fact that we are getting more and more blackouts, but I do not believe that any evidence can be found of this in any context. And we need to develop new technology and use the many possibilities we have for storing, among other things. power. So I think we should look at it a little more positively, and then let us start developing the technology that needs to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103147	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103148	I didn't bring any graphs up on the platform. I can show Mr. Knox. Per Husted. But I think I have seen that it is Energy Networks that are making these forecasts which show that there will be a significant increase some years in the future in relation to the current level. Now the current level of power outages in Denmark is fortunately very low, so a doubling can sound very good. But it is still only a few minutes that are being talked about. But it is certainly a trend to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103214	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103221	Thank you for that, President. Perhaps I could begin by commenting on the debate that has just taken place on security of supply. It is of course essential that we continue to have the highest security of supply in the world. In fact, I also believe that this is one of the things we are going to be able to make a living on in Denmark, in other words to export the technology that is needed and to have such a high level of VE, while at the same time having such a high degree of security of supply. A great deal has already been said about this in relation to L 165. It is an agreement that follows up on the recommendations of the Committee on Electricity Regulation, the Energy Agreement of 2012, the Energy Savings Agreement of 2016 and the supply strategy, where we strengthen the security of electricity supply that we have just discussed. We also prevent a degree of double regulation between Danish and European legislation, and we collate information on energy savings. I am pleased that there is such support for the proposal, and of course the Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103328	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103336	After all, the aim of the draft law is to strengthen the framework for monitoring the security of electricity supply and to establish the level of security of electricity supply and to create clear rules for securing capacity. This ensures a continued high level of security of electricity supply and a strengthened basis for political and administrative decisions regarding the development of security of supply. We are concerned that the draft law states that we want to promote market-based methods for ensuring the security of electricity supply. In other words, it takes some planning to have a high level of security of supply, and we are, of course, influenced by the fact that the market is making other decisions. When there is a tendency in Denmark to create large data centres with huge electricity consumption, it is actually a development that is significantly different than if we just see a development where there are some urban communities in different parts of the country that are growing and others that shrink, and sometimes some companies that change their production or shut down. After all, this is something that happens quietly over time. Then it may be that there is sometimes a steel mill that shuts down and where it then has a major impact on the electricity infrastructure that we have together. But when you see these data centres that suddenly pop up, it's something that challenges our security of electricity supply. That happens, and we have to deal with it. On the other hand, however, we also need to deal with security of supply, and that is where we need to ensure that we have electricity generation in Denmark that can meet the demand for electricity supply. And that is where I see that we very much need to have strong control of it so that we can ensure that there is electricity in the cables all the time. After all, it is both private households and business that depend on it. The draft law here provides for an annual report, and that is very good, because there is also the opportunity to include some large electricity consumers who are on their way to establishing themselves in Denmark. And perhaps we could also include in that statement what is sensible to develop with new cables. This is also a question of dealing with the fact that we see increased production of renewable energy in the western part of Denmark and increased consumption in the eastern part. It could be good if there were a little more electricity generation with renewable energy in the eastern part to ensure security of supply. When I read this bill, I couldn't help thinking about such a project as Viking Link, which is going through, you could say, and where only the Minister should allow Energinet to make an investment that is paid for by all electricity consumers. After all, the way things are running at the moment is not appropriate, where there is absolutely no political control over the kind of large investment that consumers will be paying for. So I think that governance is very much needed, and I don't see that this bill ensures that. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that there might be more power cuts in the future due to the increased amount of renewable energy. That cannot be ruled out, but it will come, among other things. How to coordinate how to plan energy production so that it is not just the market that whips out there. Because if wind turbines are the cheapest to set up, a lot of them will be set up, and then we will not arrive at the right energy mix. It would be sensible for us to make planning and support systems so that we can get 15-20 per cent. electricity from solar cells in our energy mix. And then it would be easier with a little biomass all the time to ensure that there is power in the outlet. Because there are other players who make decisions all the time. It is not the Folketing that has decided that several coal power plants should be phased out. It is Ørsted himself who has said that they are phasing out something in 2023, and then some biomass will probably be burned off at some of those works. But we look into something where other than the Folketing makes decisions and where this security of supply is challenged by the fact that there are other players who make decisions. And that is where I find it very difficult to see that security of supply is just something that market forces need to find out and where to find out whether it is some large batteries that need to be put up in a corner or whether we need to have some reserve capacity with some oil-based works that can be set in motion. I think we are challenged by the, what to say, great examples we see and the changes we see in our electricity consumption and electricity generation. So this bill is, in fact, important, but we cannot agree to it at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103844	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316103850	In Denmark, we have a very, very high level of security of supply, and it is also quite crucial for consumers that they can trust that there is power in the sockets when they need it. It is also an important argument when energy-intensive companies choose to place either whole or part of their business in Denmark, as we are currently, for example. see it with the many data centers that are being placed around the country. That is why it is also important that we have oversight of security of supply, so that we can also guarantee businesses and consumers in the future that they have the energy they need. However, we must be careful, I would say, that we do not go further than what is most necessary when there is technological development and technological investment which in itself ensures a very high level of security of supply. We will then have to discuss whether the way in which we have arranged the system up to now is also the most optimal. Well, there's certainly no reason for me to wear both belts and belts in this context. However, as I have said, we must ensure that in the future we also have one of the world's highest levels of security of supply, which we have at the moment, and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104024	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104033	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, we are dealing here with a lot of things in a legislative proposal, and most of that is actually fine, but I think there are two important things that I would like to address. One is that in this draft law the Minister is given the power to decide on security of supply, so that it will be a simple matter for the Minister himself to report out and decide what this security of supply should be. Several rapporteurs have said that it is a great thing that we in Denmark have the highest security of supply in the world. Yeah, but the question is, is it really smart in the future? What I would like to see is for us to take a political debate on what security of supply really should be, because there are opportunities to be more flexible, for example. there are many companies that will be able to benefit from saying that they will pay a slightly lower price, against the fact that they can actually be without power for some particular periods or things like that. It may also be that there are consumers or consumer groups who would want to have that kind of dynamic to work with. So I actually think it would be good if we had a political discussion about the level of security of supply and then set it in motion from there. The second thing is that I got worried when I read the article from the Danish Windmill Association yesterday, which is why I am asking the Minister some questions in writing, but in this article the Danish Windmill Association questions whether this bill is really what it claims to be, for example. In an analysis from last year, Energinet states that the Danish electricity system no longer needs the so-called forced drives of power plants to ensure security of supply. This is why I just want another quote, it comes here, and it is also from the same article: the request is exactly the opposite: it is costly, unnecessary and anti-competitive State aid to the central Danish power stations. This is contrary to the EU's competition rules and to market-destructive practices. It is therefore a question of creating invitations to tender in this package, which is unnecessary when you look at the announcements that have come from Energinet last year, I think it was, and it is also referred to in the article. I therefore believe that we have some things to find out in the committee's work, i.e. whether we are imposing on the system some costs which are actually totally unnecessary today. So we are hesitant and sceptical so far and see what the debate in committee allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104347	Thank you. There are some comments, first from Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104351	I took note of the fact that in his speech the rapporteur was at least different from the previous rapporteurs. Until then, all the rapporteurs had welcomed the fact that we have such a high level of security of supply in Denmark and so few blackouts, and then I wondered why the rapporteur, as I remember, did not necessarily think it was very clever to have such a high level of security of supply. But the opposite of high security of supply is, after all, a lower security of supply and thus more power cuts. How can this be desirable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104423	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104426	Well, it can be if you look at the connection with the price. The question is whether we are now at such a high level that it is an unnecessarily high level. Well, as far as I remember, the level of our energy system is 99.996 percent uptime. And when mistakes occur, it is typically a wire that gets cut over, or the kind of local events. It may well be that in the future, in our more unstable energy system, which it is, after all, with many different technologies, we need to take an active part in looking at what quality we want. Many consumers may think that it does not do anything about three interruptions a year instead of one every two years, and one might save money in that dynamic. I just think that we should have an open debate on this rather than just deciding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104523	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104525	Well, at least I think it's worth it for us to have an open debate on it. At least now there has also been a view that I did not expect, namely that more power cuts may be desirable. I think it is open and honest from the point of view of the Alternative that the Danes must get used to it if it is the alternative that decides. So it's a good thing we got that straightened out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104540	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104542	Well, I think the rapporteur misunderstood it a little. What I said was that I think it is important that we have an open and political debate on the level at which we should be. And as it is right now, it is just the Minister who decides, and then we do not know why and how it is decided, that is what is at the root of it. So I would just like to have a political debate about where we should be going forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104610	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104612	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Christian Poll, as energy rapporteur for the Alternative, has begun to communicate openly and honestly about the policy of the Alternative on precisely energy. We have also seen an energy play from the Alternative earlier this week, or whatever it is called, and I think it's really nice to have open announcements. It is as if the alternative in the past has been a little reluctant to tell us what their energy policy as such has had to contain. I am also very pleased that the rapporteur raises the issue of unnecessary supply in relation to security of supply in Denmark, and the issues that might come in the Committee from the Alternative, I will follow that very closely, so I think that is very good. But then I would say that I am very concerned about Mr. Christian Poll's announcement that we need to have lower security of supply in Denmark, which is why I think it is very good that the alternative has started to communicate openly about its energy policy, precisely because it is so far away from what else I hear from signals politically, and those I think it is 54 proposals that the alternative played out with in the past also move very far away from what I hear from political statements, and especially from government and Liberal Alliances. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104734	Thank you for mentioning our energy play. I am very proud of that, and I am aware that it is a very far-reaching proposal that we have far along the way, but it is also necessary if we are to face the climate crisis. As far as security of supply is concerned, I repeat that what I am concerned with is that we should have an open debate, a visible debate, a democratic debate on where we should set the level: should we remain at 99,996, or should we go down to 99,91, or perhaps down to 99,2? And then we're going to have a debate about where this lower security of supply should lie. Is it at transmission level, is it at distribution level, is it especially the companies that can work with a dynamic, or are it citizens and citizens' groups who could have that interest? In this way, we can work much wider and more openly with the transition of our entire energy system from a few large power plants to a myriad of energy-producing renewable energy technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104845	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104846	Thank you, that's very good. Here we are out in the political laboratory or workshop of the Alternative with plunder about openness and everything else. I just think we need to get a very clear signal from the alternative of whether we really mean what the rapporteur is saying on the floor, namely that the alternative is in favour of lower security of supply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104916	I don't think I said that. What I have said is that we need to have an open debate on whether it should be lower and, if so, how much lower it should be or in which sectors it might make sense it should be lower while maintaining it higher in other sectors. What I have asked for is merely that we should have an open debate instead of the Minister himself making that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104940	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316104943	It seems that there are different rapporteurs who have heard the things that were said in different ways. What I think is very important when looking at our energy system forward-looking is that we should become more skilled at having an intelligent electrical system. Up to now, it has been the business community that has benefited from the possibility of varying its consumption according to how prices are. In the future, we must come to the conclusion that it is all consumers who have an opportunity to model their consumption, and that means that the consumer can say: well, I do not need electricity all the time. Then an energy company can pay for a lot of consumers saying that we don't have to have power all the time, if that is the case. Or you could do something where you allow a player to turn off the freezer and the refrigerator for a certain number of hours a day. So there are plenty of opportunities to model on its consumption and work on energy storage. I heard the rapporteur of the alternative in a different way from the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, although the same was said from the alternative. In my view, it is essential to work towards achieving something where we need to ensure a high level of security of supply with more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105050	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105052	Thank you for the in-depth examples. I thought they were really good. I needed them myself just now. But it is, for example. The kind of dynamics that consumers will be able to choose and say: I would like to have a slightly cheaper electricity supply against me, for example. doesn't have power at night for a period from 8 a.m. 01:00 to 10:00. 05.00 in the morning or during the day, if there is no one at home. There may be many ways of seeing this kind of dynamic, and that is just what I would like to have an open debate on at the political level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105125	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105127	Then we have to return to the comment about whether it is the Minister who should have the power to determine security of supply or whether it should be a political debate. And there, as in the alternative, I am determined that it will be a political debate, a proper political debate on the state of security of supply, and from that point of view something could be decided. Some actions could be determined instead of leaving responsibility to the Minister. And it might well be that there could be a majority in favour of it. I recall that the Danish People's Party is regularly a little concerned by just giving authority to the Minister. So I think there is reason to have this discussed in detail in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105205	I have no further comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105208	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105210	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has answered both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance in relation to the need to discuss whether security of supply should be 99,996, or whether it should be lower. So I do not quite understand what the rapporteur means when you say that no, in fact I thought we should discuss the possibility of smart grids, i.e. smart grids with which the freezer can be switched off and so on. I believe that all parties are in favour of this. But the funny thing is that it is the alternative that gambles with popular support for the green transition by starting to discuss whether we should continue to have the ambition to maintain the same security of supply. In other words, it is the whole core of our masterpiece to be able to ensure a high level of VE while at the same time having a high level of security of supply, and that is why I have to get clarification from the rapporteur now: is it serious that it is the alternative that wants to discuss whether, for economic reasons, we should accept more breakdowns on the web? In other words, the rapporteur himself calls for a debate on whether to accept crashes many more times, a hundred times, than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105323	This is precisely the discussion that is so important to take. What I am proposing is that we take it in the open, instead of it being just the minister who can choose to say at any time: Well, now I want to turn security of supply down to 99.1 because it suits me. There I would like it to be a political decision with a prior political debate on what level we would like to be at and which sectors can benefit from being at what level. So it is basically just a question of taking the debate with open eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105358	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105359	Well, it is quite strange to hear the alternative rapporteur make those proposals, that is to say that we must now discuss how much we can reduce security of supply. I really think that the rapporteur is gambling with popular support for the green transition. Because I think it will fall drastically if we accept that the power in the outlet is significantly weakened more often. And what puzzles me most is that the only party in the whole parliament that will discuss how far down in security of supply we have to go is the alternative. There are no other parties that say that there is a desire for lower security of supply. On the contrary, all parties other than the alternative say that we must maintain the same high level of security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105441	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105442	We may have to stay at the same level. It may also be that we need to be lower for certain sectors. The important thing for me is that we should have an open debate on this rather than just leave it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105454	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Husted, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105456	It is always nice to have a good discussion, and we must at least say that it is planned here. I would say that I think there are some things that get mixed up. From our point of view, security of supply must never be compromised. The fact that we can then make some smart solutions is, of course, good enough. But can the rapporteur not agree with me that some things are being mixed up here about security of supply and how we make things smart, in other words smart grid?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105531	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105532	Yeah, you could say that. This discussion has gotten a little mixed up. Because it is true that technologically and systemically there are a number of possibilities which are being developed and tested in these years, which can provide this intelligent network, as Mr. Thomas Danielsen also mentions and which we are building. That is the dynamic that I would like to raise to a higher level, so that we deal with this politically here, so that it will not just be the Minister who, without the rest of us discovering it, decides: Well, but now I am just relaxing security of supply because it fits with something else. So what I am calling for is merely that we should open our eyes to a political debate on where security of supply should lie. It may also be something that needs to be done at regular intervals, because technology develops so quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105623	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105625	I can see that. But is Mr. Christian Poll does not agree that a measure of security of supply must always be 100%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105636	No, I do not think we can ever talk about security of supply at 100%. One can, of course, work towards getting up there, and in Denmark we are extremely high. The discussion is just relevant, since we are remodeling the whole energy system, i.e. whether we should go a little further down, i.e. not down to 60%. or something like that, but at 99.99, something a little smaller than what we're on today. It's the interesting discussion I just want to take with my eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105708	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316105717	Denmark has led the world with a green transition; we have shown that it is possible to put very large amounts of renewable energy into our systems; we have shown that it is possible to maintain a modern lifestyle where you can actually trust that there is also that power in the outlet, even if there is no wind out there where the wind turbines stand. And that is not least the context, that is, that we have both been able to take responsibility for climate change and have been given a green transition to our energy supply, that we have gradually shown that it is now the cheapest form of energy that it is wind energy, and at the same time has been able to maintain a high level of security of supply. So I actually have to confess that I am also a little confused about the position of the Alternative... that we should want a lower security of supply. As far as I am concerned, it can never be the discussion, and I think it is actually true, as the rapporteur of the Left says, that we could put all the popular support at risk if we were to start saying that we should also put up with the fact that there will be many more crashes. Then I think we are simply losing the population. And there I think that idealism goes far, far beyond what is most important, namely that we make things happen in the real world, that we do not just sit and talk, but make things happen. As far as I am concerned, there are two arguments. There it is, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen lifted, which is very important, and which is about how we can get a consumption and a production that matches each other better. How can we make sure that when it blows and the windmills run, that is also where you might have a bigger offshoot on electricity? That is, for example, the case. by getting it into heat pumps, getting it into our heating systems; it's getting it into the electric cars; it's being able to store it; it's giving consumers some incentives to use the power at the right times. This is one discussion, and we all agree there that we will try to move forward in that direction. You might want a test area in Denmark where you actually really moved on to this. Then there is another area that is about whether there should be power in the outlet. And yes, there is. The question then is: where should the backup flow come from when renewable energy does not deliver? Are we going to make a single move on foreign relations? Will we make the assumption that we can get it from elsewhere in Europe that we can get hydropower from Norway or that we can get power from elsewhere? Or do we want our own backup at home? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be taking part in the political debate. But it's not about whether or not there's power in the power outlet, it's about where our backup is. And it is clear that if we choose a Danish model, where for example. If there are decentralized power stations that can be put into effect, then it can be a little more expensive. But it may be that when we are faced with a Russia that is behaving as they are and where we say that we do not want a Nord Stream pipeline into Europe or where we say that we do not want Russian gas, which is what makes us addicted, that is, if that is the alternative, then I would rather pay a little more for us to have some decentralised power plants. That discussion is political and it is important to have. When the Minister is going to set a target, it is after all on the basis of an energy agreement in which we have taken this discussion. So that's where we're gonna get. The discussion about which of the two systems we have to deal with. We in the Radical Left think this is important. We have some questions about this bill. We think there are a lot of good things in it, but using market-based solutions requires that there is no monopoly situation. In other words, we have a number of questions as to whether we can risk that there is a place where a market-based solution will be used, and then perhaps only one or two providers will be able to raise the price very high for the consumer. There we want Energinet to play a role and manage it both on the climate profile, on the monopoly position, on what it ends up costing out at the individual consumer's expense. So we have some questions about this bill, which is, by the way, very technical. And there are smarter people than me who have helped me to formulate some of these questions... I'd like to acknowledge that. But before we finally report back on this, we'd like to drill a little further into this in committee. I should like to say from the SF that they stand in the same place as the Radical Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110123	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110127	Thank you. After all, the debate is running a little further, which is why I would like to say that yes, I fully agree that what is interesting is of course interesting, for example. is to discuss the balance between storing energy in Denmark and exchanging with foreign connections. Those are the technological solutions that I also mentioned from the platform before. I would like to ask the rapporteur something: would the rapporteur be comfortable that it is just the Minister who can turn down security of supply himself? That is what the draft law says today, namely that the Minister can just say for himself that it should now, for example. be 99,92, because we can save some money or something. Is it not therefore appropriate to take this debate and that it should be us in here who look each other in the eye and say: yes, it may be that we should turn it down, but it may also be that we should keep the level, but we should know why we are doing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110232	We would very much like to take part in the committee debate in discussing this power to the Minister, how far it should go and where the political decisions really lie, because it may also prove to be a more technical power we give here and that the political one lies in a large number of the decisions we take, for example. an energy agreement. So we want to help drill this into committee proceedings, in other words how much of this really is something that is approaching a technical power and how much of what is very big policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110257	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110301	I think that was a very good answer, because then we can go ahead with it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110306	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110310	Radicals are always very concerned about practice and reality, because you have to have great ambitions, you have to want something, but it must also be able to become a reality. So thank you for recognizing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110315	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110324	Thank you. After all, as other rapporteurs have said, legislative proposals L 165 concern a very technical area and can also be seen as somewhat incalculable. But if you remove the worst thistles out of this, it is the fact that what is at issue in the main is that we in Denmark have security of supply. After all, we experience very, very rarely, I would say almost never, failure with electricity supply. If each of us looks at our household, I don't know how many people remember that failure has occurred in 2017 and 2018. And that is the way it should be in the future. That is why there is a technological development in what we need to do, which means that, when we have the challenges of our decentralised network, we will have a security of electricity supply, which this includes. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate is authorised to lay down detailed rules on the content and preparation of the Energy Network's annual statement on the security of electricity supply as well as on the payment for the purchase of the performance by Energinet. And then the bill must ensure a more appropriate distribution of roles in relation to the handling of electricity consumers directly connected to the transmission network. The draft law proposes that the responsibility for measuring electricity from electricity consumption directly connected to the transmission network should be part of the licensed activity of the network operator. Thus, the responsibility for measuring electricity from electricity consumption is transferred directly to the transmission network from Energinet to the companies. What is being proposed here is, of course, that it is the Minister who is empowered to go in and make a statement in this area about the security of electricity supply. The Conservative People's Party believes that the long-term bill should help us to develop our security of electricity supply, which will be of the highest quality, not only in Denmark but also in the world. I believe that, in the long run, we have a lot of renewable energy production and, indeed, sun and so on. can have some digitalisation systems set up. It will be possible to develop them and we can help to export in the long run. So we say yes to Bill L 165.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110625	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs. It's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316110634	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The government is pleased to present this bill, which helps to realise the government's plans for the future supply, which will benefit citizens and businesses. I hope that we can have good cooperation on this and future draft legislation for the supply sector. The bill translates the recommendations of the Electricity Regulatory Committee into a future-proof regulated electricity sector. The Committee on Energy, Research and Technology has recommended that the framework for monitoring security of supply be strengthened. The Committee has also recommended that there should be clearer rules for ensuring capacity. At the same time, it implements the part of the supply strategy that deals with robust regulation of security of supply and that, where appropriate, clear and long-term objectives and security of supply requirements need to be set. The new regulation on the security of electricity supply must help to ensure that we in Denmark continue to have a high level of security of electricity supply. At the same time, the draft law should strengthen the basis for political and administrative decisions on the development of electricity security and with a focus on costs. A high level of security of electricity supply creates value in Denmark and must therefore be maintained. A continued high level is of great importance in an energy system with ever-increasing amounts of renewable energy. This helps businesses, households and society's institutions to focus on their core tasks in confidence in a stable electricity supply. At the same time, it is important for the electricity bills of electricity consumers to focus on the costs of a given level of security of electricity supply and on the gains resulting therefrom. Therefore, it is an essential part of the legislative proposal that these costs are highlighted in terms of requirements for improved reporting and focus on promoting market-based methods by ensuring security of electricity supply. This means that State intervention in safeguarding the security of electricity supply is sought to be minimised so that the market can provide the services requested. All in all, this will benefit electricity consumption. The draft law also includes a follow-up to the Energy Savings Agreement of 2016. The draft law lays down rules for all electricity companies to conduct a joint annual coordination of their information on energy savings grants paid out. It must be ensured that no more subsidies are granted for the same energy saving. The draft law also allows the current minister to lay down rules for assessing whether agreements under the energy saving scheme are market-related. It shall contribute to ensuring more effective supervision of the energy companies carrying out related transactions under the energy saving scheme. Overall, this leads to tighter control and stricter supervision of the energy savings scheme. The draft law also provides for the transfer of responsibility for measuring electricity from electricity consumers directly connected to the transmission network from Energinet to the grid companies. In this way, the responsibility for measuring all electricity consumption of the grid operators is brought together. It shall ensure a more appropriate distribution of roles in relation to the management of these customers. Finally, the draft law contains amendments resulting from regulations on EU network rules, on system operation and system planning. This is a clean-up in the Danish provisions of the Electricity Act, which is now regulated by the corresponding EU network rules. They therefore need to be repealed or adjusted. I am all in favour of the bill and of the fact that we are now among others. has been given the opportunity to discuss the very important question of how best to ensure the safety of electricity supply. Finally, I would like to thank you for the interest that Things has expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111049	Thank you. There are some comments to be made to the Minister. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111055	Thank you. After all, there has been a little debate, and it was shown to me that I got it started, so it is also relevant to come here with the Minister. I would like to ask you quite directly: what criteria and processes will the Minister base the decision on the level of security of supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111119	Thank you for the question. I would say that I will do everything in my power, because we still have a high level of security of supply. I fully agree with the Socialist rapporteur that high security of supply is very, very important. That is just as important as where the energy comes from. There must be certainty that there is electricity in the outlet at all times. I think it is very good that we are at a level of 99.997 per cent, among the highest in the world and in Europe, in terms of ensuring security of supply. I will take the necessary initiatives to ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111151	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111158	That sounds very good and reassuring, but the Minister also said in his speech that there was a focus on costs. That's where the balance is all the time. What if you can save 1 billion? kr. a year to reduce security of supply 0.1 points? Will it be something the Minister just does, or will the Minister take an open debate on it before it happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111222	The fact that it is being transferred to a political decision gives us the opportunity to have a political debate, because it will be a politician, the current minister, who will decide how high the level of supply should be. I can just say that it is the Government's ambition that we should not compromise on the green transition to ensuring a high level of security of supply. That is what we are known for and must be known for, namely that we can combine a high share of renewable energy with a high level of security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111249	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111251	Well, I think everyone is in favour of a high level of security of supply. I just do not think it is quite clear whether the Minister wants security of supply to be at the current level or whether there is an ambition that it should be higher or whether it can be lived down a little. I think that is completely unclear. Now we have a legislative proposal that will give more powers to the Minister, so it would be nice to know what level of ambition the Minister has. In general, it has to be said that security of supply costs something. In other words, our electricity supply is more expensive if we give priority to a high level of security of supply. Then there may be some smart grid that can be introduced and that can be a cheap way to maintain a high level of security of supply. But that is what must be given priority in investment. Or you need to get better at avoiding digging damage and whatever else it might be. So I miss the Minister coming forward with what the ambition is, i.e. whether it is a higher supply of electricity than there is now or what the Minister's ambition is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111358	Then I can say that the government has an ambition and I share that with a large majority in Parliament that we must have a very, very high security of supply. We do not compromise security of supply. This requires national initiatives, but it also requires us to be well connected to the surrounding countries. After all, the whole development of the European Union's energy union is also aimed at ensuring a high level of security of supply in the European Union. There are many components that need to be in play, but I can just say that we are not compromising on that. Part of living in a well-run and well-organised society is that no matter when you turn on the outlet, there is absolutely maximum certainty that there is also electricity in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111438	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111443	Thanks for the woolly answer. That didn't make me smarter. Now there are some major investments that are sometimes decided, and I would really like to know with regard to Viking Link whether the Minister considers this to be a good investment. Now the recommendations state that a market-based approach to ensuring security of electricity supply will be promoted. Is Viking Link an example of prioritising it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111519	Thank you for the question. I would say that no woolly answers are given here. I have answered very precisely that we must continue to have a very, very high level of security of supply and that the level we are at at present should not compromise. So I would say in relation to Viking Link that the government thinks it is a really sensible investment both for the sake of ensuring that electricity is available at all times in the power outlet, and in relation to security of supply and also in relation to ensuring continued low electricity prices in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111549	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111551	Thank you. What I was actually in favour of asking is the Minister's answer more or less directly, but I would like to ask just to understand exactly: what is the Minister's view of the alternative statement, which emerged from the alternative rapporteur's speech, that it was not necessarily so clever to have such a high level of power security, and that in other words, the Danes must get used to the fact that there may not always be power in the outlet, and that sometimes there are some blackouts here and there? What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111629	Thank you for the question from Mr. Mikkel Dencker. I would say that I am in line with the questioner. I agree with the rapporteur of the alternative on this issue. For the government has a high security of supply top priority, and therefore it is absolutely essential that we organise it in a way that we ensure that there is at all times • as far as possible, because there will of course be electricity in the outlet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111656	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111659	Thank you for your answer. It was very precise and direct, and I am pleased with that. If the bill is implemented, as has been proposed, so that the Minister is given the authority to set the objective of electricity security, how does the Minister envisage involving the parties of the Folketing in the political debate which will necessarily arise in setting such an objective? How does the Minister intend specifically to involve Parliament's parties in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111731	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. In any case, we will take that into account, of course, the parties who take responsibility for Denmark's energy policy. This also applies to the author's party, which takes a great deal of responsibility in this regard. They will, of course, be involved in terms of how we continue to ensure security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111753	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111814	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316111825	Thank you very much. L 166 is also the implementation of an agreement which we, the Social Democrats, are already involved in and which, of course, we support as a starting point. The purpose of the bill is to give effect to a decision to provide a price surcharge for electricity produced on solar installations of less than 1 MW, as it says, except for installations connected in their own consumption installation, i.e. the small installations. The agreement was concluded at the Energy Reconciliation Meeting held in September 2017 where the Energy Reconciliation Parties agreed that the funds from 2017 in the PV pool should instead be used for the provision of solar PV installations. It was on the basis that we considered that more solar cells could be set up with that tender model than if we had not converted from pool to tender, in other words on the grounds that we could get more for the money. From the hearings we have noted that Dansk Industri is calling for the tenders to be carried out with a variable price supplement.This is technically rather than a fixed price supplement that the government prefers. We believe that Danish Industry actually has a very good point and we do not understand why the government is not interested in a variable price premium instead. According to the Danish Industry, a variable price supplement provides just more renewable energy for the money and lower costs for the state, and we should all be interested in that. With the individual comments here I would like to say that we are still looking forward to the further work on L 166, which we expect to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112028	Thank you, President. After all, the bill here is that from 2017 the so-called solar pool will be converted into a so-called tender, making sure that the solar cells to which support is given are given the lowest possible support, so that you can say that solar energy will receive as much as possible for the money that you have decided to allocate to support. The fact is that it is an agreement of which almost all the parties of the Danish Parliament are part, including the Danish People's Party. I think it is only the Alternative that is not in this context and it is an agreement that was made back in September to convert the solar pool into a tender that the bill here implements. As far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, it seems that we would prefer to see support for renewable energy as soon as possible, in other words as soon as possible, renewable energy can stand on its own feet and thus, under market conditions, operate in direct competition with fossil energy. Until we get there, hopefully not so many years later, we would of course like the money allocated to support renewable energy to be spent most effectively, and we think they will, by making calls for tenders where various players wishing to set up solar or wind turbines or other forms of renewable energy can bid and offer to set it up to the lowest possible rate of support. So that's the way we think it's best done, and that's also the way we do it with the bill here. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112222	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has just a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112226	The rapporteur mentioned that the Danish People's Party is in favour of phasing out support for renewable energy. It is true that there is a certain probability that we have the prospect of such a thing in the middle of the next decade that sea wind does not need an aid amount. I can also see that, in the area of solar cells, if there is wild technological development, we could get there. However, I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether support for biogas, which is the energy that is currently receiving the highest amount of aid, will also be phased out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112304	I would say that biogas is indeed receiving a very high amount of aid compared with other forms of renewable energy, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also pointed out. However, biogas is so important that it also solves a waste problem where some waste is handled. That is why I believe that it should be included in a slightly different category than other renewable energy sources. So we are not going to do that at this stage, but we would very much like us to be able to limit the funds spent on it, for example. in that it is being examined in greater detail whether it is possible in the longer term to reduce aid, that is to say to reduce the need for aid, because we believe that renewable energy has swallowed a great deal of money from our common fund. However, we welcome the fact that, fortunately, there is technology development on wind and on sun, which means that the need for support is falling sharply and that, hopefully, in a few years' time, we will be able to find ourselves in a situation where these technologies can do without support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112404	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112408	Thank you for your answer. I would really like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now that the biogas, like has a special role and gets a great deal of support, can the rapporteur see some opportunities for us to put it somewhere else? In other words, it is like part of agricultural production and some agricultural waste that we should deal with in a different way. Could we get biogas aid out of the energy conciliation and into what concerns the agricultural sector and the support schemes that may be over in agriculture? Would it not be a better cut when we talk about agricultural production and have a sustainable energy production, that is to say, to separate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112447	I am not going to stand here and draw conclusions about what is most appropriate, but because it is gas that is produced in the biogas sector, I think it is natural that it still belongs in energy policy. So for the time being, I think it is right to do so, but we are willing to take the discussion at some point, i.e. whether we should deal with it in another context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112509	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112516	Thank you for that, President. L 166 we have reached, and with the proposal we then give effect to the decision that there should be an offer of price surcharges for electricity from solar cells with an output of less than 1 MW. It is the implementation of an agreement from the Energy Association of 26 September 2017, and it is widely supported here in the Folketing, presumably by all parties. The Left is pleased, and the Left is also one of the parties supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112551	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316112600	Enhedslisten supports this bill, which makes it possible for us to get more solar energy for the same money. There may be a prospect that we'll get 35 MW through this offer. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that we probably have almost 1,000 MW in Denmark at the moment, and we only have approx. 2% electricity from solar cells. We'd be happy to have 15-20 percent. in our total energy mix, so it is important that we here in the Danish Parliament adopt something so that the PV companies can have something to do all the time, that they can be involved in some development in Denmark, where we get the solar cells and the potential they have. There are a number of consultation responses to the bill. This is among other things. Dansk Solcelleforening (Danish Solcelleforening), pointing out that this law could be put into effect in a way with an invitation to tender, so that we would see a series of plants of 1 MW standing right next to each other, that it is in this sense one player who wins the whole offer and that only one player gets it all set up. I do not think that is appropriate. However, the draft law stresses the need to have the least possible rules, and I do not always think this is appropriate. I think that we will end up with very few plants being set up here, and then it has to be said that a 35 MW plant is not very large either. We have larger plants standing in Denmark. So there's a certain probability that this is just one plant. We need to find ways of putting more solar cells on the ground; we need to come to the conclusion that there will be more built-in solar cells. We can then see in one of the hearing replies that the Minister points out that the integrated solar cells in the building can be promoted via EUDP funds. That is correct, but we have seen a huge potential in Denmark with the integrated solar cells, because we have some actors who develop them, and we have a strong tradition in Denmark that architects draw the construction of the future, and we also have some manufacturers who produce windows and the like that can be in this. Maybe we're about to break through. It is so important that we also secure that part of the development so that we do not end up in that it is only the cheapest possible here and now when very large solar installations are set up on land. We support this proposal, but we can also see that it does not solve everything. I also think it is a pity that we have not come to the conclusion that solar cells are very much coming up in housing associations. It was, of course, a task which lay with the Minister, where an agreement had been reached on how to implement it, but where it did not then reach completion. It is therefore important that renewable energy is a popular matter, and it is, of course, a matter for us to make greater use of our roofs. There are some who sometimes ask: is it now right to use agricultural land to set up solar cells? It is one way of using the soil, and it is a more efficient way than any crop. But that does not mean that we should have as many solar cells as possible on the ground. I believe that there is a task to be done also in promoting solar cells on the roofs, that we get the integrated solar cells in the building, and that there is a huge task to secure it in the next energy settlement. So now that the Minister is preparing something that will come here in the spring, or if it is before the summer, or if it is after Easter, I think it is important that the Minister gives priority to continuing solar expansion in Denmark, so that there can be stability around development, so that the companies that are active have something to do every year, so that you don't have this stop and go. That's a bit of the disadvantage of such an offer here, where there's probably somewhere on the sandy farmland coming a single plant as a result of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113013	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113020	Last year, the Liberal Alliance, together with the government and so also the Danish People's Party, concluded an agreement to let wind turbines and solar cells compete on equal terms and thus deliver as much green energy as possible for the money. This is an agreement that we in the Liberal Alliance are very pleased with, because we have been fighting for many years for us to move away from this planned economic and technology-specific green transition to a much more market-based procurement model. The September agreement last year was, after all, a very clear expression of that. When we then deal with this proposal, it is because there was no complete common ground to place the solar pool under the overall technology-neutral tender scheme in 2018 and 2019. Personally, I think this would have been the most appropriate, because we would then have increased competition on the total amount of renewable energy, including for smaller solar installations, and would then have been more simple, purely administratively. But this should not be the case, and this is what could be agreed upon. It also sounds as if there is a broad consensus on the bill, and the Liberal Alliance naturally supports it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113144	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113150	We need much more solar energy in Denmark, which is why we are of course in favour of this proposal. We would probably have screwed it up differently, and we think that this only solves a small part of the expansion that we need. As the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, it would be more appropriate in my view if variable tariffs had been used so that it is not for companies to bear the risk of price fluctuations. But let's just leave it alone. We support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113231	Thank you for that, there are no brief remarks. Then we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113241	Thank you. Today, we will then implement an agreement that the Radical Left has also helped to make and which converts a solar pool into a genuine supply. We would have liked to see this happen in a different way, and I don't think anyone in the government is in doubt about that. On the one hand, we think that the unspent funds from 2013 to 2016 should be included in this funding, and on the other hand, we think that we should have chosen a different model when the support scheme for renewable energy was drawn up on land, namely the one called CFD, Contract for Difference.I think that is what it is called in a fine word.In fact, instead of going for a very long period of time and continuing to provide subsidies for renewable energy, we say: We set a fixed price, and when the electricity price exceeds it, there is actually no longer any support from the state. With the price projections in the Danish Energy Agency, it would actually be a really good business for the state. You could get much more renewable energy for the money if you had chosen this model, where instead of keeping an ear on the ear and choosing the very expensive model that the government has chosen, you could have taken the cheap model where you could have had much more renewable energy for the money. It would not, so all the fine words about it being cheapest and most cost-effective did not really hold up when it came to it. Therefore, an agreement was made just between the Danish People's Party and the government, which we were not in. But today we are standing and correcting some of it by saying: we need some solar energy in Denmark, and if this is the way we can secure it, then we support it too. I should like to say from the SF that they stand in the same place as the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113428	Thank you. And with that we are hurrying on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113437	Thank you. After all, the bill, L 166, concerns solar installations. There are unspent funds from 2017, and that is what needs to be tendered for in 2018 and 2019. It expects 35 MW in the solar pool instead of the 20 MW it could have become under the current scheme. I should not hide the fact that we at the Conservatives wanted the profits of the PV pool to have gone into the overall supply in the technology-neutral field. There was an opportunity in getting more competition and thus getting more out of the money. It was not possible to get everyone involved in this, so we are here with a separate solar pool, and then we have to go out with a technology-neutral offer at a later stage. But since it is the case that we have to agree, we in the Conservative People's Party support Bill No. L 166.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113552	Thank you for that, there are no brief remarks. And then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113600	Thank you, President. And thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The draft law is the execution of the decision that we have taken in the energy conciliation circle to convert the solar pool for 2017 into a solar PV supply. The supply will be for solar installations of less than 1 MW and only for installations that supply all their production to the collective electricity network. As you know, we would have preferred the funds from the solar pool for 2017 to be included in the financing of the RES support model for 2018 and 2019, but there was no support for this in the energy reconciliation circle. Therefore, based on a desire to ensure a more cost-effective expansion of solar cells, we agreed to convert the pool into a PV supply. With the mode of supply, we will ensure more efficient use of the aid so that we can have more green energy for the money. The law will come into force as soon as the scheme has been notified to the European Commission. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113713	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113717	There has been some concern in the industry as to whether, when changing the conditions for grid connection, we can have the rules and conditions in place in good time so that the companies that will make a good bid to set up more solar installations, as well as know what conditions apply to grid connection, and can find out what the changed grid connection costs; and so that the grid companies that are supposed to help figure it out may also know what it is. In the past, I have received an answer from the Minister that this is under control. I think that was a good answer, and when the Minister has given that answer, it is of course the Minister who has the full responsibility to comply with the rules before keeping the supply. So I just want to know if the Minister is sure that will be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113813	Now you have to be careful not to stand here on the parliamentary platform and issue 100% guarantees, but when we give such an answer as we have given, that we have it under control, then I can also guarantee that it is under control, and then we will certainly do our utmost to ensure that there is also.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113826	There are no further questions, and we would like to thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113853	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316113902	Denmark has a good and long tradition of high food safety and quality in our food. That is what makes it possible for us to go to a restaurant with the family without being concerned about our health, or that we can buy into the supermarket with the certainty that hygiene is top. This is particularly evident in the fact that more than 80% of the population live in rural areas. of all food controls in 2017, did not receive a remark, which means that the majority of Danish food producers comply with the legislation and deliver a safe product to consumers. It is important that we can continue to ensure that quality for producers. When over 80%. Unfortunately, this also means that there is a small core of producers who must continue to work to improve the hygiene and safety of their products. At barely 14 percent. comments were made on the controls in 2017, which means that producers have production conditions that need to be improved. In many cases, the remark means that the manufacturer must improve its handling of food and can again get a happy smiley at the next check. But unfortunately there is also a group of hard-boiled people I would like to call them food zippers who will not conform to the legislation that ensures the high safety and good quality. For too many years they have been able to include fines and penalties in their general operating costs, and thus the controls have not had the expected effect on their food management. Of course, we cannot accept that. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister is now, at the request of, among others, the Minister. The Social Democratic Party in the Food Association has taken the initiative to clean up the broken vessels so that stores cannot simply include their cost of fines in the overall operating costs. With this bill, we are now giving the authorities the necessary tools, which could almost be tempted to say weapons, to sanction those companies that repeatedly oppose the guidelines we have in Denmark for good and safe food management. The bill ensures that companies that have received comments in several checks can be sanctioned by periodic penalty payments, higher fines and that it can ultimately trigger a company quarantine. This is the toughest sanction a company can suffer, which hopefully will make this tiny core of the food sector's hard-boiled habit of criminals live up to the rules and laws in force. We owe this to both consumers and, as a matter of fact, to companies which can easily find a way of complying with the rules we have in Denmark. So I hope that with this amendment of the law we can get rid of the stumbled vessels, because, firstly, it is not safe for the consumer and, secondly, it is absolutely unheard of that there are food companies in Denmark that can include their sanctions and fines in the ordinary operation. So with these comments, I should just like to say that the Social Democrats naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114219	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114226	Thank you, President. Of course, the Danish People's Party supports this change of law, because we ourselves have been advocates of tightening up with those so-called stumbled vessels. The purpose of this draft law is to provide for the possibility of imposing administrative periodic penalty payments, the possibility of banning continued operation, and the possibility of doubling the amount of fines for infringements of food law by what we call stumbled vessels, i.e. companies with poor compliance with rules. The strengthened action against stumbled vessels, which was decided with food compromise III, has been quite effective, but a small group has proved unwilling to remedy the situation in the company. This behaviour is detrimental to all the companies that comply with food law, as well as to consumers; poor hygiene in companies can make customers ill, for example. be salmonella poisoning. It must now be possible for a period of up to 6 months to prohibit continued operation. In addition, it will be possible for the Minister, in the context of a ban, to prohibit the person responsible for the undertaking from carrying out one or more food activities, from being able to register a new food business or from having a new food business authorised for an equivalent period. This will only happen in the few cases, fortunately, where a company is constantly putting food safety at risk and violating food law. With this, the FDA will have new opportunities for those companies that do not have the will to rectify, and hopefully it will have a preventive effect. In conclusion, I would just like to say, as I said to the Minister earlier this week, that we should see if we can tighten the wording of the bill. For in several consultation responses, concern is expressed about the expression "bad vessels." They are afraid that many more than the gross cases, in other words those that we want to hit with this bill, may end up in the category of stumbled vessels for minor offences, and that is of course not the intention. So that's why we need to look at it in the further treatment. But of course the Danish People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114459	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Erling Bonnesen, who is ready with his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114512	Thank you. In Denmark food safety is at its top. It is widely recognised throughout the world, and it is among other things. the reason why the International Secretariat for Food Safety is located in Denmark. The opportunity to set the agenda for future standards and thus the global food market of the future is particularly important for Danish exports and a good example to take with them. That is why it is also important that we safeguard our leadership position. Foreign customers should never be in doubt that we in Denmark have a high level of food safety. The vast majority of food companies provide top-class food safety and contribute positively to the Danish reputation. Unfortunately, there are then a few, but problematic food companies that repeatedly break the law. That is unacceptable. As a food business, you have a responsibility to handle food safely. We must not allow ourselves to be left alone when companies over a long period of time fail to fulfil that responsibility. That is why we are now proposing three initiatives with this legislative proposal, which we are dealing with firsthand here today, which will improve the ability of the food authorities to take action against companies with poor regulatory compliance. The three initiatives, administrative penalty payments, company quarantine and an increase in the level of fines will increase incentives to comply with the legislation in force. Experience has shown that this type of company particularly understands the seriousness of their infringements when they are penalised financially. This makes the initiatives effective in preventing new infringements. The proposal here gives the food authorities some more tools to take action against food companies that, without respect for the legislation, break rules over and over again. This applies to companies that have many times been given the chance and have been given more opportunities to get it right, but in spite of this it continues in the old crooked track, one might say. This bill is therefore a necessary addition to the sanctions that are already in place today, and that is why we in the Left support the proposal and, of course, vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114729	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114738	Thank you. The Unity List also supports this bill to tighten up and try to achieve a higher level of food safety. We think this is incredibly important. Whether it's the right language to call the stinging vessel or whether it's rotten vessels, I shouldn't be able to say. That is clearly what needs to be discussed in committee. We are not in favour of double sentences in all cases, but we believe that what is in this draft law is right to try, and we also think it is good that there is a possibility that some companies may be quarantined so that they cannot just start the next day with something that is not right. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114815	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316114824	Thank you very much. It is very important, as has already been said in the debate, that we have strong food monitoring in Denmark. This is important for consumers, but it is also important for the industry itself. Every time one of these stories comes in the press about a restaurant or a café, which, on repeated orders, is still squandering food safety, the whole industry suffers from it. Therefore, it is also very good that the focus is now on the industry's stinging vessels. For there are certainly companies that keep coming under the spotlight of the authorities, and they need to be closely monitored, and they need to be severely sanctioned. We must remember, however, that it is quite violent to have the stamp of being a stingy vessel. Of course, when you make a public mouthpiece, as it is in this way, it is imperative that only those companies that repeatedly commit serious violations of food law come into play. There we may all have received e-mails or received inquiries with examples of so-called serious violations. One can of course question whether it is serious if an inspection report is not sufficiently visible, and there are other examples of things that one might be able to discuss about is enough to get the stamp to be a stingy vessel. So we should at least have some attention to that, and perhaps we should also consider what remedies there are and whether they are good enough, as it is now. These are some of the things that I and the Liberal Alliance think should be followed up and monitored in connection with this bill. We need clarification on this, and I am sure we will get it during the committee's proceedings. In addition, however, I would just like to say that it is a very good legislative proposal that strengthens control of businesses and especially those companies that have the most difficulty in complying with food law, and of course the Liberal Alliance supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115046	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115051	It is just one comment in relation to what the rapporteur refers to, namely that if the inspection report has fallen, you should now become a stingy vessel. I've also received e-mails that I think all the draftsmen of the bill have from HORESTA and others who are worried that too large a group will come in this category. I just think it is important that perhaps the rapporteur himself should say a few words about the fact that, just because an inspection report has fallen, we do not turn into a stingy vessel. The fact is that it is only by repeatedly violating the rules that one fails to respond to sanctions that one is in the category to which this special-class bill will apply. So I understand the concern, but I would just ask the rapporteur to put the example of the control report in a little relief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115140	I fully agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that there is a need for repeated violations. What I was also trying to put some nuance on is that there is a difference between the degree of offence, i.e. whether there are serious incidents, whether there is a promise of index finger, etc. That is just what I think we should pay attention to in a political context too, because after all, we are the ones who are putting the rules on what food control out there among companies is focusing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115213	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Carsten Bach. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115224	In the alternative, of course, we believe that we need to maintain a high level of food safety in Denmark, and we think that this proposal might help especially those companies where there are repeated overruns and where there may be a systematic attempt to circumvent some rules. Some of the instruments we have here will probably be able to do that, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115252	Thank you for that and then we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115308	Yeah, I don't think this should go too fast, so I'm gonna read my speech very slowly. We have seen examples of companies continuing with their business, even though they repeatedly do not comply with food control rules, and that is not right. That is why, overall, we in the Radical Left are satisfied with the bill here because it introduces higher fines, daily fines and the possibility of shutting down the company if it breaks the rules over and over again, and we agree with that. We do not want to hit small food companies who may not have had complete control of papers, etc. There has to be a difference between the rules you break. We are after the companies that serve bad food over and over again, not those that may have difficulty with bureaucracy and paper. That is why we are going to propose that these instruments should be targeted at the obvious cases, and we can support the legislative proposal overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115406	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115412	Yes, rapporteurs before me have, of course, explained very well what this bill contains, and we support it. I shall be very brief. It is, of course, in the wake of food compromise 3, which was about a strengthened control effort in relation to stray vessels in the food industry. It is true that both the industry and consumers are not served by some companies continuing to violate food law, despite the fact that there has been a determined effort by the food authorities to rectify it. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115449	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. And then it's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115456	Thank you. After all, L 167 is a legislative proposal which, in its starting point, addresses those who repeatedly do not want to comply with the rules and the efforts made by the food authorities in this area. Therefore, there will be the possibility of imposing administrative periodic penalty payments for non-compliance with obligations and prohibitions. The fines are one part. The second part, as I think it will respect the fact that company quarantine can be granted for up to six months, is that it is possible to ban the continued operation of business. It is very important that we get them right here, about which it can be said that they are really messing around in food quality and actually do not take food control very seriously. Here we need to make sure, with more stringent means, that these do not destroy it for the many who comply with the rules. And then we should remember that Denmark is a leader in food safety. That is why it is also important that we have these internal lines under control, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports Bill No. L 167.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115622	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115628	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their statements. It is absolutely crucial that as a Dane on restaurant visits and the like, you can feel safe and safe about the food situation there is. And it is absolutely crucial that companies that do not comply with the rules should be punished and that they should be severely punished if they repeatedly break them and that is what we have called the food industry's habitual criminals. We do that with these changes, and it's after inspiration from the Norwegian Food Act, and it's also after a good collaboration, among other things. with the Danish People's Party, which has pushed for this. So thank you for that. We welcome the expression from the Folketing in terms of tightening up, and we look forward to having it implemented as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115715	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115723	It's just a follow-up question, because I actually think that Mr. Carsten Bach and also Mrs Ida Auken addressed some of the concerns that I may have had, also as a restaurateur I can readily acknowledge that I have such a small inn that cooks. Because what this is about is that we have food safety and perhaps not paper safety. When I say that, it is because we often experience, what can be said, a bit of bureaucracy about having a company that cooks. And, of course, hygiene must be in order, there is no doubt about that, and people who do not have proper hygiene must be beaten down. That's not what I'm after at all. But I would just like to ask the Minister if he can also look at some of the perhaps bureaucratic measures in my view. I mean, if I have two sinks and have to put up a sign over one where it says that here you have to wash your hands, I think we have reached a stage where I can wash vegetables in the other, but it is over here that I have to wash my hands. Maybe it's right where I'm jammed a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115825	Since we do not want the rapporteur to be jammed, I can say that we are monitoring the various things that are very closely in relation to compliance with rules. We have also had a process on the board, where we have said to our controllers: Gives what you check for meaning, and let us have an open minded view of it. In relation to the second part, whether it is a paper part that can make you a stingy vessel, it is of course the case that when a food business has received remarks in the form of either cutting-edge, injunctions, bans, administrative fines or police reports on three out of the last four inspections, then you become a stingy vessel. So it is not because the paper report has fallen once. I can guarantee that to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115917	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115933	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316115944	We are dealing here with a bill amending the Nature Conservation Act with the aim of providing new opportunities for open-air advertising in the open country. In connection with the modernisation of the Planning Act, the contracting parties decided to initiate an in-service inspection of the rules on signage in the open country. On the basis of the recommendations of that service review, we have discussed in the contract circle how best to support rural development opportunities. The draft law that we are now considering is a way of implementing that work. As a party to the draft law agreement, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. The aim of the new rules is to make it easier for local businesses and tourist destinations to attract visitors to a limited extent. It is therefore our hope that the proposal will support rural development opportunities. At the same time, it has been absolutely crucial for us that the bill does not change the purpose of the Nature Conservation Act. The bill offers more opportunities to set up signs, but the law also emphasises that this must be done in the light of the surrounding landscape. So natural considerations continue to weigh heavily in the law, and this is central to us in the social democracy. We believe that the draft law has a good balance between, on the one hand, safeguarding nature and the countryside and, on the other hand, supporting opportunities for growth and development in rural areas. As a party to the agreement, we look forward, of course, to having an influence on the drafting of the notice which will lay down the requirements for the placement and design of signs in the open country. It is important for us to limit as far as possible the effects of the countryside, because, as I said before, consideration of nature and the landscape is important to us. In those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120155	There are a few brief comments. First it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120159	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I also believe that the Social Democratic Party has done a great deal and what they could to take care of nature. I just want to ask the rapporteur something. Because we agree that the small signs of small food producers and such things should be there, but how big must such signs be? In other words, from how far away does the rapporteur think such signs should be seen? For example, we are going to have to do something like this. also make room for such big billboards out in the open country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120224	Of course, care must always be taken to ensure the right balance. I think that if you have been driving on such Eastern European motorways, at least you have seen examples of how things are not We should find a balance where it is not true, not even in relation to the possibilities of a small inn or festival in the city in order to be able to separate the event that is there, but, as I say, at the same time take care of nature considerations. The squares and the centimes on the signs I will not stand here wisely as a party to the agreement, where I can also confirm to the rapporteur that we in the Social Democratic Party have done a great deal to ensure that we have the scope of this. Then, of course, we also expect us to take a look at the details of the notice when it comes to making it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120311	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120312	Thank you. Because if it comes to the committee's work that it turns out to be quite large signs that actually resemble Polish billboards, which one now gives permission to where one can then just say that it will be some little, what to say, sloppy decision, whether this harms nature or not there can be quite a lot of disagreements about whether it is beautiful or not. If it turns out that it's pretty big signs that can be seen from a very far distance, will the Social Democrats be in favour of perhaps a little file on the balance of this proposal? Then I also think that more parties will be able to join in and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120346	I always think it is good to have thorough committee work, and of course we should do that. I also have to say that we have been involved in a preparatory work, including as the contracting party behind the agreement, which makes us feel secure about the legislative proposal that has been put forward. It is clear that we are also following the work of the committee that is going to happen, and then, as I say, I think it is now for the third time that we are also looking forward to being part of the implementation of the notice. So, of course, we will follow closely what answers are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120413	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120415	I would like to ask the rapporteur, following on from what Mrs Ida Auken said, to clarify what is meant by a small sign. I guess when you've been part of this bill, you've got to think about what we're giving permission to do here. Because that's what's absolutely crucial, so that's how big these signs are going to be. So, according to the wording of the draft law, what is the rapporteur's definition of a smaller sign?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120442	I have to say that I think that the draft law quite clearly defines what the options here are. This concerns, among other things: to allow local companies to set up, as I said, an inn or a shop in some smaller cities, within 30 metres of the city border, which tells where the company is located in the city, and it could be an apartment sign that you have an open courtyard event or a music festival. I mean, and we always think so in the Social Democratic Party when we talk about this balance between being able to promote rural development in the face of landscape considerations and nature considerations... that the scope is important to have in place. We believe it is with the bill, but it is clear that if something comes out with that it is such flashing lamps on a very, very large poster, i.e. several metres times several meters, which must stand permanently outside Sønder Bøvling, then it may well be that we will look at it again. In fact, however, I believe that the balance found in the legislative proposal itself, both in the words and comments and also in the preparatory work in which we have participated, makes sure that we are able to vote in favour of the draft law and make sure that we are able to participate in the work of announcement that is to be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120555	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120557	But as I understand the bill, we also open the door to signs where there is scattered settlement or just some kind of settlement in the open country, so we get a piece outside the cities here. You want me to understand that if we're out in a sign that's a few meters times a few meters, then Social Democracy won't be in it? Because I think the size of these signs is extremely important, and how far outside the cities can we really now see signs? Because it's not just about telling you that you can come in here and buy locally produced raw materials from a local farmer or that you have a flea market. After all, it is also about advertising, that is to say advertising for all sorts of activities that are in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120635	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120637	Thank you. I don't really think it makes much sense, it certainly doesn't make it for me, to stand and chisel on one side and I can hear that it is the attempt, and peace be with it and say that then it must be only 1.87 m on one side and 3.5 m on the other or 35 cm, or whatever it is. Well, that's self-evident. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. would like to sell a business land and would like to show that there is a business land for sale here, so of course it should also be seen that there is a business land for sale, right? I mean, what this is about is the proportions of this proposal, and I don't think that in the way the bill is made, there's something that makes my alarm bells ring. When the announcement comes, we look forward to looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120723	Thank you, President. As has been mentioned, it is here to implement the agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, and it has actually been a wish from the Danish People's Party that you could be allowed to put up more signs in the countryside. Of course, it is not a question of patching it all up, but of having rural development where you can advertise your goods and events that are there, and that is why we are, of course, very much in favour of it. We are pleased that you can now be allowed to make apartment signs, where you say that there is a sale of Christmas trees, here there is a sale of fruit and vegetables, there may be an open farm event, there may be music festivals, there is a fried pork and parsley sauce on a tavern in the countryside, or whatever it may be. I think it is very, very good that we can also have the opportunity to advertise our products and services in rural areas. So we warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120829	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316120841	Thank you. We are today in the first reading of Bill No. L 168, which provides better opportunities for signage in the open country. It also proposes simplifying and modernising the legislative text and extending the authority of the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down detailed rules for signage in the open country. The aim of the bill is to improve the opportunities for citizens, companies and public authorities to put up signs that advertise local attractions, companies and events. This makes it easier to find a way to local businesses and tourist destinations and easier for local businesses and tourist destinations to attract visitors, which supports rural development and growth. Distinction in the open country is, as we know, banned today, with certain exceptions, and in the Left we believe that the current legislation is too tight. We want a more liberal approach without, as it were, opening up to the Wild West, because this should not be the case, of course, with signs. But we must find balance and common sense in it. Danish highways should not be sign forests, as we have seen in a number of other countries. Thus, it makes good sense to give the opportunity to advertise local events, city parties, Danish strawberries, flea markets etc., without conflicting with the law, we might say, just because you want to help set local activities in motion. With the bill, we hope that even more locals and tourists will take advantage of the many offers and companies that exist in small communities and that even more tourists and Danes will see the joy of the various activities and offers locally when they get around. We believe that the bill supports growth and development in rural areas, so that we have a Denmark in even better balance, and that is why, of course, the Left also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121033	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121036	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that one of the great values of the Danish landscape is precisely that it is open that it is free from advertising signs? This is precisely what we can thank the Nature Conservation Act for, because it has such restrictive rules precisely for the setting up of advertising in the open country. Does it not worry the rapporteur if this bill now opens up to precisely advertising in the Danish landscape that when you drive out in the Danish landscape, where you can see such beautiful landscape elements, which are very unique to our country, you are going to look at burger advertising and advertising for auto workshops and everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121117-2	Of course, we must take care of our nature and environment and good rural areas. I don't think any of them are backing this bill, which is the least in doubt. At the same time, it also makes good sense to advertise the activities that I have also highlighted in my rapporteur's speech and, as the rapporteurs who preceded me have also done and rightly pointed out the activities that are there and, in my view, this does not destroy the fine appearance that rural areas have. It is, of course, a balance and a question of common sense, and it is a good thing if the rapporteur has some questions and some concerns. So let us clarify this in the context of the forthcoming committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121157	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121159	So the rapporteur does not think that signs in the open country that advertise anything can desecrate the landscape? I simply do not understand that. I fully agree that small signs, for example. where there is a farmer who would like to sell locally produced raw materials or apartment signs for flea markets or sports events to support local activities is fine. But advertising signs in the open country how can it be the rapporteur's view that it cannot be seen as disgraceful by people who visit Denmark or people who live here themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121237	I fully understand that in Enhedslisten's optics everything is dramatic. But I'm also trying to mark: let's get common sense into this. What I think most of the rapporteurs who have been before me, and I also signal with this, is that these are appropriate signs, so when you pass by in your car, you can just see that Saturday there is a flea market or there may be various other activities. After all, there are no local associations or others who want to desecrate the areas in which they live and help to create activities. So I'm perfectly calm that you're gonna find the healthy balance in this. And I have also indicated in my rapporteur's speech that this does not give a huge sign forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121316	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121319	Thank you. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur would like to restrict it to flea markets, the small farm shop and the small local cozy business, or whether the rapporteur would also allow McDonald's to put up a big sign because there is a McDonald's when you reach 20 km further, or others? Will the rapporteur help to limit this to local activities and local shops only?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121350	We support the bill as it stands. The concerns that any rapporteurs may have in dealing with this are welcome to clarify in committee. We have no problem with the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121403	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121410	So the rapporteur would like to have a big McDonald's sign out in the open country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121414	I have indicated that we support the bill as it stands here, and that is, of course, finding that healthy natural approach to it. I'm not gonna stand here and judge the individual signs, because we don't have the administration here. However, we support the draft law and, therefore, the framework, and if there is a lack of clarification in this respect in relation to a McDonald's sign, then let us clarify that in the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121435	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121436	It is not so easy to get a very clear answer from the rapporteur, but it is good to hear that there is also concern on the part of the rapporteur in relation to the size of such a sign. If a smaller sign turns out to be a sign of 10 times 10 m, is that something that the rapporteur thinks we can have in our country? Does the rapporteur think that such a large sign might be in the open country, or have we gone beyond what is referred to as a small sign? It's just to know where the upper limit goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121502-2	As I have already answered and highlighted, I think it is a good thing that the concerns that I can understand the radical rapporteur too will be clarified in committee. In general, the Left is behind the bill, and we are not going to stand here in the Chamber and administer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121517	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121518	I know that it is not the easiest thing in the world to get a clear answer from Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Now I have heard on my radio twice in the last two weeks journalists who had to give up getting a clear answer from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, so maybe I don't expect that either. But just answer yes or no: Will a sign of 10 times 10 m be too big for Mr. Erling Bonnesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121538	Well, as I have clearly indicated, that is a very clear answer... we are completely behind the bill that lies here. Then I understand that the radical rapporteur has some concerns, and we have a committee procedure to clarify that. That's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121549	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121556	In the Enhedslisten, we think there are both good and bad things in this bill. We think it is very positive that the draft law provides for the setting up of signs on, for example. sales of fruit and vegetables, flowers, Christmas trees, decorative greens, etc. We think it is very good that if you live in the countryside or go for a walk in the countryside, you can drive to the local farmer and for example. buy some locally produced food. We also think that it is a good thing if the draft law makes it possible to get more people to join, for example. flea markets or sports events. So less signs to support local life and local farmers or hobby producers, we are in favour. On the other hand, we find it extremely disturbing that the draft law makes it possible to sign further outside the city border. We can thank the strict prohibition of advertising in the open country by the Nature Conservation Act for the open Danish landscape with beautiful landscape elements with no shameful advertising signs. We are therefore concerned about what this bill opens up for advertising opportunities. We are concerned that we end up with large burger signs advertising restaurants or burger chains, signs advertising auto mechanics, etc. We are very strongly opposed to large company advertisements, which can be seen from afar, in the Danish landscape. The bill takes advantage of the fact that a sign can be erected if there is the smallest type of settlement, and we are against that, because we do not believe that advertising should stand and desecrate our beautiful landscapes. The proposed deterioration of the environmental protection law, which we are discussing here, states that it only applies to smaller signs, but for us it is not quite clear what the definition of smaller signs is, as there is currently no real indication of what is meant by smaller signs. It is clear that these are the sort of things we will be asking about in the committee's work in order to clarify what exactly is meant. We are also concerned about the radius from the address where a given event can be held, where in future it should be allowed to set up signs and thus advertisements for the event, and we will also look into that in the committee work. Basically, we believe that it is incredibly important to maintain a Danish landscape free of shameful advertising signs. The small improvements for local producers and local life do not mean that the bill in our optics goes far too far to allow many more signs at the city borders and in the open country. If we can make it clear in the committee's work that it is precisely about supporting a local farmer or supporting some local arrangements, then we would very much like to be involved. However, as we are reading the bill now, we think it is going too far and that is why we are against it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121842	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121843	Thank you for that, and thank you for one, I think, very balanced rapporteur's speech, but indeed also a rapporteur's speech which poses problems for some parts of the legislative proposal that I find difficult to see in the same way as the rapporteur. Therefore, just two questions: firstly, I would ask the rapporteur to give his definition of what an acceptable size of a smaller sign is. Well, what's the height times the width of an acceptable sign? That is one question. Secondly, may I not just ask the rapporteur to confirm to me that the draft law says here that company advertising, which is put up in close association with the company, must be suspended when it does not dominate the landscape. In other words, does the rapporteur not think that account has just been taken, as I used to do in my rapporteur's speech, of the objectives on which the Nature Conservation Act is based, precisely those of the countryside? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316121940	We are already seeing today, for example. driving through a small town, that there are signs set up where it says: Drive in here if you want to buy potatoes and strawberries. I think that is fine, and there I have to say that it was actually a surprise to me that it is apparently not legal and that it is being done legally with this bill, I think it is excellent. Now I am not the one who is throwing me into talking about smaller signs in the open country, and I am interested in knowing what those who are behind this bill and who support the bill mean by that. I do not think it is at all clear what we are in when it must not be dominant in the landscape, but that it must still be seen at a certain distance. What are we in here? Because when you leave a village and just drive out into the countryside, I don't want to look at signs where I'm told that about 20 km there is a McDonald's restaurant, or that in the next village there is an auto mechanic. I don't want to see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122041	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122042	No, I understand that, too. I simply do not see how this bill allows for 20 km out, I understand, in the open country, perhaps on the edge of a forest, to stand a big sign about a McDonald's or what? In itself I think it's hard to imagine the business case where it's even worth establishing that sign. However, in order not to become an exercise in blowing and putting flour in my mouth, I would just ask once again for an attempt to get a clear answer from the rapporteur: what is the height times the length limit that the rapporteur wants? For the rapporteur says that there is a clear desire for signs that work with this intention towards companies, but that they must not be marred. So what's the size? I was asked that, so I suppose the rapporteur has an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122126	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122127	Do I need an answer to what a smaller sign is, as defined in a legislative proposal which the rapporteur is behind with the government, about what should be allowed in the open country, which I am opposed to? Already today you see advertisements about locally produced food when driving through Denmark. I think that's okay. We can go together to measure those signs and figure out how big they are. I am not interested in opening up even more to what we are seeing today. That is my point, and that is why I am currently opposed to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122203	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122205	Thank you. In other words, I have no doubt that the rapporteur is not at all interested in opening up to anything in the countryside, because as soon as we get into nature, only nature is allowed to be there. But we are also some who live there, and we are some who have professions out there, and some who actually want more customers in order to be able to earn some more money to pay something more in tax and contribute to our system. I don't understand at all, Enhedslisten in this case, I just have to admit that. We are so focused on the fact that all trade and vandalism must take place in the cities, and nothing must happen in the countryside. Sounds like it to me. Now, I'm just gonna ask and maybe follow up on Mr. Simpson. Simon Kollerup's question: How small a sign can you put up? For the rapporteur must have an idea of what the Enhedslisten will agree to. The rapporteur must have that, otherwise there is at least no reason to ask Mr Beazley. Simon Kollerup, how big a sign it should be. So you have to have an idea of what you have to agree to. That's one thing. The other thing is that if you sell strawberries, isn't it okay to have a shed where the strawberries stand, so they are nice and presentable, and so people can take them at the side of the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122310	With all due respect, I would like to say to Mrs Pia Adelsteen: what nonsense and nonsense. In both my rapporteur's speech and in subsequent answers to questions, I have mentioned farmers time after time and that I and Enhedslisten believe that signs that you can drive in are excellent. I even said that in my first speech to the rapporteur. As I also heard the rapporteur say from the platform: fruit and vegetables, Christmas trees, decorative green, fine in relation to where you can buy it; at the road where you drive at the end of the driveway into the place where you can drive in and buy it. Yes, thank you to flea markets, to sports events, the things we see in the landscape today. And the size of the signs we see in the landscape today, which can be legalized with this bill, I think is excellent. The problem is, you don't stop there. There I think Mrs Pia Adelsteen is terribly wrong if Mrs Pia Adelsteen believes that the fact that we put up large signs at our entrances, at our roads, will make it more attractive to get out there. I think it will destroy the landscape, and that is where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122420	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122421	I understand that Enhedslisten then thinks it's fine for farmers; it's fine if it's a flea market; it's fine if it's a festival, because I'm sure that Enhedslisten's people go to the festival. It's fine. But if it's a hotel that wants to advertise fried pork and parsley sauce, then it's no longer fine. It's no longer fine if it's a tavern in the country. That is how I see what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122452	I would like to make it absolutely clear: signs in the open country that can desecrate the landscapes, which are also mentioned by several interested parties in relation to this bill, are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122509	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122511	Thank you. Now, on several occasions, the rapporteur has mentioned burger advertising and has specifically mentioned that McDonald's advertising should be 20 km away. I would like to hear: what is this element of the legislative proposal that we are discussing today that actually makes it possible for us to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122531	This is the element that in areas where there is a very scattered settlement, that is, where there is a settlement, it is possible to put up signs. And if the rapporteur can guarantee me that it is not possible with this bill that the way we have read it and other consultation parties have read it is completely wrong, I would very much like to hear it, because then I will be extremely happy, and then I think we can have a real, really constructive committee work. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is completely unthinkable that what I and others have read out of this bill is that there may be large advertising signs in the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122606	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122607	I do not think we are going to see that there will be burger advertising at 20 km's distance with the bill we are debating today. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on what others have asked. The rapporteur says she wants these signs that advertise strawberry and potatoes, but how big can they be? The rapporteur points out that we have to go into the country and measure it up, but one could imagine that the rapporteur had taken the trouble to adopt a position on it. So how big must those signs be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122633	I believe that what we are seeing in the countryside already today must be allowed, and I am really glad that this bill will allow us to do so. So I'm worried about the fact that I don't think it's gonna be possible to do yours and that. No, it may well be that the rapporteur does not believe it; it may also be that all sorts of others do not believe it, but here we are dealing with legislation that can open up some things, and there is just not good enough faith.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122706	Thank you. Yes, it is quite fantastic when we here in the Parliamentary Chamber and now I also know that the Committee Secretariat listens to us when we in the Parliamentary Chamber can actually develop it a tiny bit and experience how we should go on a study trip in the committee, and I can sense that we actually have a study trip on the field, because we have to go out and measure signs up. I would like to say that I would very much like to take part in it, and I would actually like to suggest that we also invite our colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen along, for I have noticed that he has made a virtue of washing signs along the Danish roads around, so he must have a special competence that we can use here. But otherwise I would just like to say to this bill that as a liberal I have little difficulty seeing why as a citizen or company out in the small villages I live even in a village until now I have not had to advertise along the road for its bed and breakfast, its restaurant, its café, its sale of potatoes, the sale of strawberries along the road or whatever it may be. As I said, as a Liberal, it is really very difficult to get to grips with this discussion. It is clear that it is very difficult to attract visitors to a café, to bed and breakfast, to attract tourists at all, if you are not allowed to put up a sign by the road or by a local establishment in the countryside or in a small village. I therefore believe that this will help to strengthen the tourism industry in rural areas. This will be of benefit and benefit both to the citizens, but in particular to the visitors and the tourists who travel around the countryside and in rural areas, among others. the many small villages we fortunately have in Denmark. That is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122921	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. We move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316122927	This seems kind of a mess to me from the debate. The question is whether this bill is at all finished, because what it is all about, if you want to take this debate, is to find out exactly where the limit goes. And it is quite complex, because there are both limits in physical quantities that have been discussed back and forth, but there are also limits as to what kind of arrangements must be held. Who is not allowed, when is it commercial, how commercial it should be, and if you make money in a flea market, it is then commercial, etc. etc.? For us, it is actually important that we continue as usual. For me it is quite special to live in Denmark as far as this area is concerned because we have had such restrictive rules. I know that when I drive around in the open country in Denmark, well then I am free of this kind of thing, by and large, and I think it still makes sense. Well, I'm missing a little bit in this proposal such a proof that it's actually going to increase earnings out there that we're getting more signs. When I drive a trip in Sweden, I see far more signs, and I can feel myself, that I kind of turn my brain off compared to those signs now that I've gotten used to coming to Sweden. But it annoys me when I look over the landscape that there are so many signs. I'd like to keep what's there. Young people, I have read somewhere, are on average exposed to 8,000 sales impressions every day, and this is from all kinds of channels. Here we will have even more sales impressions and there is a huge competition to get the attention of those who can buy something. So I'm gonna say this is gonna be a slippery slope. One can have this debate, as we have had, that the bill says that when it does not dominate the landscape, it will be okay. Yeah, but what about the sum of a whole lot of signs? Can't we end up with this proposal that every time we drive into a city, there's the city sign, and then there's just 50 signs around the city sign telling a whole lot of commercial messages? And I don't want to go there. So it's just some important things, also because we're in a period now that the Internet is something everyone uses, especially for this purpose, and I think it's getting less and less important with signs in the open country, and that more and more people are going to search this information over the web instead. So the alternative is against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123223	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123225	Now the rapporteur concluded by saying that one was opposed to the proposal, but it was just because I actually got it in the past that if it could be proved that advertising actually had an effect which in my optics has been documented several times; otherwise no one would want to spend money on it, even in the towns and cities, the alternative would support it, because then it could generate an increase in income in the countryside. But then I understand that's junk. So I actually don't think I have any questions, but I just want to say, yes, the bill is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123257	Thank you. What I wanted was whether you can prove that if we open up and create a larger sign forest in the open country, it will generally increase the turnover of those companies that can use signs in this way. You can't measure that from day to day, you have to make some models of that. It's not a question of whether one ad works or not. It is simply a question of whether an assessment has been made that if we go along this road, companies will actually translate more and earn more. And I don't think there is, so that's why we're still against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123337	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123339	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand, sir. Christian Poll, that he turns off his brain when Mr. Christian Poll is in Sweden, and I will of course not comment on that further. Instead, I would like to comment on the alternative and Mr. Christian Poll's great enthusiasm for locally produced and organic food from the small communities around Denmark. Doesn't the enthusiasm struggle a tiny bit against the aversion against increased signage in the open country in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123425	No, I think that actually seems the other way around, because small local producers will be able to afford to do some online marketing that can be done quite cheaply, but they will probably hardly be able to afford to buy a huge sign and get it set up and rent an area from a farmer to have it standing and so on. So I think it won't support the little ones if you open up signs. Then it will more support those who are a little bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123459	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123501	Yes, thank you, but do we not agree that apart from these occasional signs about flea markets and all sorts of other things, as it sounds like we all agree, there are smaller and not dominant signs up to 30 metres from a village and besides, as I know, I believe that small signs are already allowed in connection with local businesses in the open country? So I'm not quite sure that I agree, and I'm not quite sure I understand. Christian Poll's ending.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123538	That is why I start by saying: I wonder if this bill is really finished? Because these limits are not defined and they are not well-defined. This means that we do not know how big the signs are, and we do not have the discussion that when a sign is not to be dominant, it is true for all signs. So when we suddenly have 50 nondominant signs standing next to each other, they are dominant. And it's like it's not thought into the proposal as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123610	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123620	The Danish landscape is something very special. When you drive a trip through our country and see these open landscapes, where city and country have not flown completely together, and where we have a nature that you can see and let your eye look over without being disturbed by advertising and other things, we have a very special value that we must take care of. Then you can have a view of freedom that says: we must have the freedom to just put up the signs you want. It is a huge freedom for the individual. Or you can have another concept of freedom, which is that there is a very great freedom to have a landscape where there is also this open country, where things do not flow together and where there is no signage around. These are two different views of freedom. The Radical Left has the last thing, namely that we think that there is a great deal of freedom in having this landscape that we have. And we'd like to take care of that. Having said that, it sounds as if in this room there is a consensus that you should be able to set up small signs for farm production, for local food, for flea markets, for things that are temporary. I may have walked and thought you could, because I have certainly seen a lot of them, and I don't know if there is a violation of law anywhere in Bornholm and in the rest of Denmark, but I understand that all these little signs around here have not been legal. If that's what was in this bill alone, and we were absolutely sure of it, then we could support it. But there are some things in it that we would very much like to ask more questions about. We would like to try to have a discussion also on the issues that may lie here in the draft law about what a smaller sign is. We would like to ask a little more about the part that is now being removed with the bill, which is that the sign should not be visible from afar. I understand from the Minister that this is mainly about signs on buildings, but we would certainly like to have a great deal of security for that. In fact, it can be said that a sign in connection with a building that can be seen at a distance can also be incredibly disgusting. So if we can get a couple of these things in there and sort of agree that the intention with this is that those little signs you drive past, and where you can see that there's a farm shop in there, if you might even have a hard time finding it, and that there's a small gallery where, if you have time, you can look at it exhibited, well then we're in for it. But right now we do not really think it is fenced in properly, and so we have to say that in order to protect everyone's freedom to still drive around our landscape and not get the baby thrown out with the bath water and secure the thing that can really get tourists to Denmark, namely our landscapes, we allow ourselves to have a rather cautious approach to this and will ask more about it in committee work before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123859	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316123906	One of the things I love most about Denmark is the open country, i.e. the landscape where you can leave your eyes open without being disturbed by signage etc. For example, when I get there... Travelling around Europe, I often notice how disturbing it is that landscapes and access roads to cities are patched up with advertising, signs of light and other things. I know that's not the scenario someone's dreaming about in this hall, but you just can't be sure where the limit goes and I think that's a problem. I do not want a Denmark where you no longer have an undisturbed access to the landscapes you pass by. I have moved from town to country myself, and I also think it is possible to discuss what it is that is appreciated by living out there in the countryside. I think there are many people who also settle in the countryside and actually enjoy living in the countryside and being free of a whole lot of advertising and signage in their surroundings. But the proposal here must then extend the possibility of putting up signs in the open country. I therefore agree with the organisations that write that this would be contrary to the protection of landscape interests, which, of course, have both a natural value and a cultural heritage value both for those of us who live there and also for the tourists who visit us. I can be positive about the part about occasional signage, because it makes sense that people do not necessarily have the possibility of discovering something that is not normally in a place but which is there for a period of time. Because I'm also unsure what you actually have to do today in relation to the small farm shop... how close to the road you have to put a sign on the farm, which also has a small farm shop? If it is the type of adjustments that need to be made, I am open to discussing it, but not if it is other types of adverts that have something to do with showing that here is a property where there is a tavern also at a distance. That is why, if you imagine that you would like to have a sign where it says that there is a farm shop and a half kilometers away, that is, if everyone makes road signs in the landscape in this way, then we will have an extremely confusing landscape, and not something that necessarily informs those who would like to visit those places. So, on the whole, we are rather sceptical about this proposal, but will of course also ask some in-depth questions in committee so that we can know where these limits go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124205	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124216	Thank you. After all, there has been a very fine and thorough examination of what the legislative proposal we are dealing with today is really about, so I will not go through it in a slavish way. For the Conservative People's Party, for quite a number of years it has been quite an important battle and a rather important discussion, what we allow in the open country in relation to signs. We would like to allow ourselves to be tasters in terms of what we think is going to suit the open country, and we think that we should be very careful what we allow, precisely in order to protect the value of the open country. But I must also say that for me and for the party there has been too restrictive a practice in terms of what can be done. There are so many fine things going on out locally, events, business and events that deserve to be advertised in all possible ways. We have here at Christiansborg a great deal of focus on what we do to keep life and leeway in all parts of Denmark, and we use a number of different instruments in here, among others. the relocation of state jobs. We have a system of compensation; there are all sorts of different initiatives. But one of the things that makes a difference is that something is happening locally. And the fact that something is happening locally is encouraged by the fact that you can also be allowed to advertise what is happening locally. We think that a very, very good balance has been struck with the legislative proposal that is here, which is, after all, a reflection of the thorough work that has been going on and of the draft law that the Conservative People's Party is also part of. It is clear that these signs must not dominate the landscape, so the picture that has been drawn by such large billboards, where there are neon lights and flashes and advertisements for burger houses, simply cannot be contained in the legislation we are making here. It is simply not right that this can be done within the legislation that is being proposed here. So I think it's a little unnecessary to draw. But the Conservative People's Party supports the bill here. Noise from the Palace Square
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124425	It went through clearly, although we have a small competitor out here in the Palace Square. Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124436	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments. I also very much welcome the fact that we now have the opportunity to sign more, both in connection with villages and the like, but also in relation to apartment events, farm shops and such. This isn't gonna be a sign forest like somebody's trying to make it. Nor will it be big McDonald's commercials that are being reported, as the Conservative rapporteur also said. Then I also thought it was signposts, as sir. Christian Poll got his head hurt when he moved around in Sweden. I think there were other things you could get something more hurt in the head than even signs, but of course we should take that over a cup of coffee, sir. Christian Poll and I, and then we can always discuss Swedish experiences there. I welcome the fact that we are creating more freedom and, at the same time, taking objective account of the open country. There are therefore no further comments from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124531	But there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124534	Thank you. I mean, what I'd like to do with the minister is with the slippery slope effect. Because I imagine that when we look a few years ahead, if this proposal comes through, there are a number of companies that have had small signs out, which have not really been dominant in the landscape, but who have discovered that the signs stand together with 30-40 other small signs, each of which does not seem dominant in the landscape, and that they have thus not really had any effect because people, when they get there, cannot see what is on all these 30 signs. Do we not then see a next proposal that says that now we can make the signs a little bigger, so that those who can afford to make bigger signs can at least become more visible until there are 30 larger signs and it's going to be hard to see all these messages again? That is what I mean by slippery slope, and I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124632	Thank you for the question. In fact, I have a little difficulty imagining that small villages should have so many activities in them that it is entitled to 30-40 different signs for the entrance to the village. And it is not our intention that all sorts of other major signs should be made, so I think that is a concern that is not justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124653	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124654	When I get there at 80 km/h. on a highway and must drive into a town and then there can be signs 30 m before the city sign, I'll guess that I can read one sign, maybe two. But let's just say there are ten signs, and I can't read them either. So is it not realistic enough to have that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124721	Actually, I'm surprised that sir... Christian Poll even arrives in a city by car. I thought the alternative was for bikes and stuff, and if mr. Christian Poll bikes, at least he can see all the signs before he gets to town. So no, it's not a concern I share.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124735	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124737	Thank you. Now, sir. Christian Poll mentioned this slide a few times, and you might want to ask if it is such an amusement that is signicant. But I'm not going to do that in this context. All I have to ask of the Minister is whether the Minister will not emphasise what is stated in paragraph 1 under paragraph 21. 2, and maybe put a little extra words on it for us: company ads, which are set up in close association with the company when they do not seem dominant in the landscape. Would the Minister please say a little more for our colleagues that this land-use aspect will still be included in this balance? It's just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124822	Thank you. I can very clearly deny that there should be a question of setting up some monster sign far before a company, but I would very much like to confirm that this is in close association with the company, either up the existing wall or in relation to the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124838	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124841	Will the Minister be open to us getting the drill out, how much this thing about signs being seen at a distance will have meaning? It may be said that it is on a building, but if it can actually be seen many, many kilometres away, it may well be something that actually goes against another consideration, namely that it should not desecrate the landscape. So will the Minister help us to go a little deeper into that part and perhaps change it a little if it turns out that it is actually something that goes against the second consideration, namely that it should not desecrate the landscape?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124908	We would, of course, like to respond to this kind of question in committee, so that Members have a clear idea of what the options are today and what the possibilities are for the future. I personally believe that this is a concern that is not necessarily to be felt, and that is why we are, of course, happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124926	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124927	Thank you for that and I am pleased that the Minister will answer the questions that are being asked. But perhaps I would also like to hear whether one would be sympathetic to the fact that one gets it right, if it turns out that one then has the right to put them on a building and that they would like to be seen over long distances, can actually go against these landscape considerations. Will you be sympathetic if that is how it ends? If the second can be shown, we have no concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316124953-2	After all, Mrs Ida Auken always has many ifs, and that is the same with the concern that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding always has. It is not a concern I share, but I would like to say that if it turns out in all likelihood that there was cause for concern, then we can discuss it. But there is a fairly clear framework in this agreement, and I do not think we should be worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125014	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125028	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125039	The legislative proposal we have to deal with now gives the Minister for the Environment and Food the opportunity to lay down rules on nitrogen pools as part of the phasing-in of nitrogen in the aquaculture industry. Danish aquaculture is an important part of Danish exports, both in terms of fish, but especially in relation to environmental technology, and in recent years production has been increasing. It is important that we continue to ensure the production of fish and shellfish in Danish aquaculture, as it benefits both producers and employees, and it benefits Denmark. This is reflected in increased exports, more jobs and, therefore, increased growth in our country. It is therefore also crucial that we ensure the development of Danish aquaculture at all times, but at the same time we must ensure that this is done with regard to the environment and to the green conversion. In the first place, the draft law provides for increased opportunities for the industry to develop. That means, among other things, that... the maintenance of the current level of production in aquaculture and, at the same time, the conversion to more environmentally friendly facilities for fish farms. We in the Social Democratic Party can see opportunities in this. We see an increased potential in Danish aquaculture • something that we also wrote in our •Strategy for sustainable development of the aquaculture sector in Denmark 2014-2020•. The bill will immediately mean additional production in the land-based plants, which in the end also means more jobs in this sector, something that we look forward to. The draft law also supports the transition to more environmentally friendly production, since only fish farms with cleaning degrees can be supported at the level of model farm. We in the Social Democratic Party are satisfied with this, as it strengthens the incentive to switch to more environmentally friendly production and, at the same time, allows for increased growth by producers. Finally, I think it is crucial to mention that the draft law is the only basis for phasing in nitrogen. This means that all permits must continue to be granted with the necessary environmental considerations, including, inter alia: The rules on habitats and the EIA are something that I also expect the Minister to highlight in committee and in the final announcement when we get there. Then you ask the Social Democrats whether we can support phasing in nitrogen over some pools for a period of time, I would say that such a model is difficult to be very opposed to. If you ask the Social Democrats whether we can be in favour of a model that promotes technology development up to the best available standards and constantly promotes a technology that we also have to export, then the answer is: yes, we can see great perspectives in that too. What, however, is the problem in relation to this bill seen with our glasses is that it enters into the legal books at a time when we have just been presented with very depressing figures for the state of the Danish water environment. A glossy picture has been drawn of the levels of nitrogen; there has been an underestimation, compared to the fact that it looks more positive than what reality really is, of between 10 and 13 per cent. This whole background makes it really hard to work on this bill. Because the draft law includes quite specific levels of what should be authorised for additional quantities, both for marine agriculture and, in particular, for fish farming. It is a very great concern that we have in the Social Democratic Party, and we have also called the Minister for a conciliation which I think we should bring up to this bill, which is about these levels. For the intuitive question that comes up when such a bill comes up for consideration in Things is: is there even room to phase in what you want to phase in? Well, if you've missed the target with maybe 4,000 tonnes, don't we have a whole, completely different problem and something quite different we should discuss with each other? We are very concerned about this, and that is why we are going to take a very thorough look at the work of the committee, and that is why we will only take a final decision on the legislative proposal on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125531	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125534	I fully agree with the rapporteur that something is intuitively wrong here. One might also say that this bill was put on the legislative programme at least before we knew that there were such big mistakes in the measurements out there in our nature and our environment. So does the rapporteur not just basically agree with me that, in a situation where the level of pollution is much higher than we thought, it will be very creative to start discussing that there should be room for more pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125603	I can only say that it is precisely the case that has taken place, at least before we in the Folketing have been aware of the errors that have been made. And then this bill comes. In fact, I don't think it's this bill that doesn't roll over or don't do it. I believe that agricultural packages and all sorts of other things have a much greater volume, but it is quite certain that in the work of the committee we are, of course, chasing solid, credible answers to where the room for manoeuvre lies, because if it turns out that the errors made are so gross that the Minister is now also raising claims against the companies that have dealt with this, in this way the curtain is pulling away from the scope for relaxation, then this bill is also facing a problem. So we will be following this very closely and thoroughly in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125656	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125658	Basically, I guess it's a little bit simple. In other words, the level of pollution in our port and marine environment is too high and higher than we actually thought. We are still a long way from achieving the objective to which we know we need to go in order to achieve a good ecological state that we are committed to achieving under international environmental rules. In such a situation, I certainly cannot even imagine how to reach where one could conclude that there was room for more pollution. Does the rapporteur not agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125727	I'm not going to imagine either. I am just raising one problem and saying quite briefly in summary form: there are such fine elements in this bill that we in the Social Democratic Party can be involved in, which promote aquaculture and also promote it in a direction that is more environmentally friendly and that creates the basis for better exports of technology, etc., but there are just some circumstances about the bill that we need to have further clarity about, and we will pursue this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125754	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125756	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Social Democrat rapporteur says so clearly that it is very difficult to see that there should be an environmental space out there when it turns out that the measurements taken have been 10 per cent. or even more too low. Of course, it ate the room. However, with regard to the fact that the rapporteur, like opening a little window for us to go along with or do this anyway, there is simply something in time that I would like to hear how the rapporteur will resolve, because yesterday the Minister for the Environment said that it will take a year before the consequences are known and before the Minister for the Environment will tell us what the consequences of these erroneous measurements are. Will it not be a demand from the Social Democratic Party that it will go faster than a year to get this overview and that you cannot vote for this bill until you have clarified what the consequences of the erroneous measurements are in nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125845	After all, the radical rapporteur himself highlights one aspect of the order in which things arise, and that is also true in the order in which demands are made. I expect the Minister to take the floor in a moment and say something about this issue, and that will then form the basis for us to have some answers. We will also be asking written questions, we will have consultations on the subject, which will then mean that we will decide what our possible demands will look like in that context. It is simply a question of knowing what a huge problem it is that has caused the Minister to bring claims now. What is the real problem outside the replacement rooms, but in the environment, and is there room to do the things that have been done, not just with this bill, but with the whole relaxation regime that has been in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125935	An Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316125936	That is a very good answer, because the Social Democrats want to know what it looks like in the real world and out in the water before granting these permits, and I think that is a very good starting point. The minister has just said that we won't know for another year. So unless the Minister changes this by saying that these measurements will only get the consequences of and get the right information in a year's time, the Social Democrats will surely not be able to vote for this bill unless you speed up that process, if it is to be true that you are preoccupied with what is happening in the environment and in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130006	I am not going to stumble myself in this debate, and that is why, of course, my answer will also be that we are now seeking answers to the questions and concerns we have, and we hope that they can be answered satisfactorily. But I would say next to what is involved in the specific legislative proposal, that I am surprised that we have to carry out a mid-term review in connection with the new agreement on targeted regulation this summer to see how the effects of the agricultural package have been negative on the environment, but are not able to say how the environment is. In fact, there should be a coincidence between the two evaluations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130044	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130052	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, the implementation of the agricultural package agreed by the Danish People's Party and the government. I really think that the proposal is fine, understood in the sense that we support the idea that we should have an increased opportunity to have aquaculture, and what I would like to highlight here, like the Socialist rapporteur, is that there are actually some environmental measures in this, although I know that it is the nitrogen emissions we are looking at. But I would like to point out with regard to the additional emissions that we are allowing here, that it is not certain that it will come. It depends entirely on whether anyone gets an environmental approval of new sea farms, pond farms, etc. etc. Of course, this is done on the basis of an overall assessment when looking at the applications. This really calms us in the Danish People's Party in relation to the environment. That is why, of course, we also support the proposal and I do not think I will say so much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130204	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130208	Thank you. I am rather interested to hear what the rapporteur thinks about what has been achieved, that we have measured too low in terms of nitrogen pollution in our marine environment, so that we have simply thought that we had gone further in reducing nitrogen pollution and that we are actually well above it. What kind of reflections does the rapporteur make of this knowledge, even in relation to this draft law, which, as such, will increase pollution even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130237	I think I have said very officially that it was not something that I fell on my tail compared to these measurement errors that have been going on for ten years. But I just don't think it has anything to do with this proposal. We have made an agricultural package in which we have gone in and said that we have some improvements, we are making some reductions, and that is actually what gives this one the opportunity for extra emissions in this industry. So that there are errors in measurement methods for a period of time, we must, of course, look at. The Minister has started an investigation, but I do not think it is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130309	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130311	I guess I just don't understand. We know that pollution in the marine environment is higher than we thought because it has been mismeasured. Now we have a bill here today that will increase pollution even more, and the fact is that pollution in the marine environment creates algal blooms, it creates oxygen loss, it causes fish death. After all, it can hardly help to adversely affect the fishermen fishing fish out there. It may then be that there are some advantages to those who raise fish in large cages on land and at sea, but the rapporteur must somehow see the link between too high a level of pollution now and a legislative proposal that will increase that level of pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130350	Then I try to put it another way, because I do not think that the two things have anything to do with each other. It is the case that, when we made the agricultural package, we have made a reduction in the amount of nitrogen, which allows the amount of nitrogen to be emitted elsewhere, namely under aquaculture. Then it is true that there are some measurements that have been wrong over a 10-year period, which make the water state apparently different, and that is something we are looking at, but that does not change the fact that the room for manoeuvre that we have made with the agricultural package can be used here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130427	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130436	I should just like to understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: it is therefore felt that the agricultural package created less pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130446	Mrs Ida Auken is asking for the floor again, I think. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130450	Okay. I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party should go back there and look again at the package. Because out in the real world, peripheral areas and after-crops were removed, the restriction was removed by means of fertiliser standards, and it was very explicit that additional pollution was made with the agricultural package. Then you did some desk exercises that made it look a little less bad. In reality, however, in addition to voluntary catch crops and collective efforts which are not at all in line with the second, only measures were taken to create more pollution. So it is quite absurd to hear that the package itself would mean less pollution in the real world. However, I have not yet heard any of the rapporteurs say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130531	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130534	However, it is my clear opinion that yes, we have an additional pollution for a period of time and then, on the basis of the targeted regulation, we will have less pollution than we have had in the past. And it becomes more targeted where it actually has a beneficial effect, rather than just saying that everyone has to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130552	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The next one is sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130603	Thank you. One of the things that Danish food production is world renowned for is high quality and low environmental impact. Such recognition does not come on its own. It is a combination of skilled manufacturers and the right policy framework to support the industry. Globally, aquaculture is an area of growth. This benefits our climate, as the high efficiency of the fish to transform the feed into growth and thus edible meat makes it one of the most climate-friendly meat. Denmark will also benefit from a share of the market, for which we are well placed. However, the current regulation of the aquatic environment makes it difficult for producers to expand their production. The regulation as it stands today is essentially a dampening of growth. With the bill that we are dealing with first here today, we allow the phasing-in of a total nitrogen pool of 423 tonnes for the period from 2018 until 2021. The pool is an important tool to support the aquaculture sector becoming more resource efficient and having a significantly lower environmental impact per year. produced unit because priority is given to resource-efficient pond farms with high use of environmental technology. This will make it possible for all existing fish farms to receive an environmental approval which has been an objective in environmental regulation for a number of years. With the bill, we do not compromise our aquatic environment at any time. It's important. The 423 tonnes have already been included in the river basin management plans for 2015-2021 and the allocation of nitrogen will only take place in the context of non-degradation and gradual improvement of the status of the river basin concerned and without hindering the achievement of set environmental targets. In this way, the government again shows how the choice is not between production or the environment, but that both can be prioritised at the same time. That is why, of course, the Left is also voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130818	There are brief comments. First from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130822	The fact is that the conditions have changed after we have become aware of the fact that wrong measurements have been made. Then it turns out that the level of pollution is higher. Is the rapporteur sure that this is not contrary to the international obligations to which we are subject, for example? in the Water Framework Directive and the Nitrates Directive, that now, when we have recognised that our pollution of the environment and nature is higher, we are adopting a legislative proposal that will increase pollution even more? Can the rapporteur guarantee that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316130854	It's important to make that clear, and I think that applies to all politicians that when you want to do more production in this way, for example. In this area too, we still need to take good care of the environment. As the questioner knows, there are rules and directives for this kind of thing, that is, non-degradation rules and so on. So briefly: we must take good care of the environment. Then a situation has come in from the side, we can call it where some error measurements have been made. But it doesn't mean the world just stops here. As has also been pointed out, and I am quite sure the questioner is also fully aware of this, even if you are not in it, an agricultural and food package has been made, and some different calculations and assumptions have been made in it. There is room for manoeuvre so that initiatives can also be taken in the field of aquaculture without conflicting with the non-degradation rules. And these are the things we can say to give a basis for moving on with it. This bill, as I also highlighted in my rapporteur's speech, is the coinage of these nitrogen pools. It's a corner of it. However, it is clear from this that we must, of course, take care of our environment. So do we.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131002	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131005	We are committed to achieving an objective called good ecological condition, where we know that nitrogen pollution must be reduced to a certain level. We know the number of tonnes that can be discharged from agriculture, sewage and marine agriculture. What the new measurements have shown us is that pollution is much higher. That means that we are much further away from that goal than we really thought we were. Can the rapporteur not see that there can be a problem in relation to the objective we have to achieve and which we are obliged by international rules and by the European Union to achieve when, in this situation, we see the new situation that no one here is guilty of adopting a legislative proposal that increases pollution in our marine waters?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131043	Well, we fully agree that we must take good care of our environment. Non-degradation rules etc. must be complied with. Then I also fully agree with the questioner that from the side, so to speak, this information shows that there may be goals wrong for a number of years. We need to get this under control, and the Minister has also announced that we will have it checked so that we can hopefully put it right in a good way. Does that mean we have to stop the world in the meantime? No, it doesn't. The proposal that we have here and now is, after all, a coining of a corner, a detail or a section, call it what you want to do, but it does not mean that we are opening up to further pollution. That's not what we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131119	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131124	Does the rapporteur think that one is completely crazy if one takes the view that this is because we have measured the wrong way out in the real world, also having an impact on whether there is an environmental room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131137	I haven't said anything about somebody being crazy or something. I note, like everyone else, that there are some indications from the page that some things have been mismeasured for a number of years. This has to be sorted out, because when you sit at the negotiating table and in different rooms, you have to have the exact and correct facts on the table to negotiate as much as possible. The proposal we are discussing here and now, and I think the questioner is also aware, is a question of the implementation of specific nitrogen pools, which are part of the agricultural and food package. Does this mean that we are saying that we are going to open up further pollution? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131212	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131216	So, sir. Erling Bonnesen doesn't think there'll be any extra nitrogen in this water with what you decide today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131220	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131223	Well, there's been a statement that it's been mismeasured. It does not change things out there immediately, but it does mean that we have to get the facts right when we sit at the negotiating tables. In other words, all the readings that have now come to light about have been wrong are not good, and it must be corrected so that it is in place so that we have a correct and factual basis to negotiate on. What we are now implementing with this bill is some nitrogen pools, but it does not mean that we are saying yes to increased pollution. No, we will also take good care of our environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131253	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131257	I am also trying to understand what the rapporteur is saying. I heard just before Mr. Keating. Erling Bonnesen says that we have to respect the principle of non-degradation, but this bill gives a pool of 423 tonnes of additional deterioration. So how am I supposed to understand this thing about respecting non-deterioration, while at the same time allowing the bill to emit more nitrogen? That's a deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131328	I also think it is well known to the questioner that other counter-productive compensatory measures have also been put in place in the food and agriculture package, in which the author's party is certainly not part of it, so that we do not, of course, comply with the principle of non-degradation. We in the Left do not want to undermine the environment either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131340	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Poll the word again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131345	Yes, but all the other things being equal, with this bill, there will now be 423 tonnes of extra nitrogen. It's going backwards. This is a deterioration because nitrogen is what pollutes when we talk about the aquatic environment. So I guess it's a deterioration when we put more out and a non-degradation when we put less out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131412	Well, as I think the questioner is aware, and as I have already answered, we have also made other environmentally compensatory, counter-measures, so that, of course, we do not comply with the principle of non-degradation. We in the Left do not want to undermine the environment either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131426	The last person to ask for a brief comment is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131430	Thank you. I would like to ask two questions. One relates to the timing of the bill. Will the rapporteur recognise that it is perhaps not the best timing to deal with a legislative proposal when we are currently faced with so much uncertainty about these nitrogen figures? That is one question. The second question I would like to ask is: is this bill giving more pollution, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131504	Well, I agree with the questioner that being a legislator and a member of parliament can be complex and quiet, if I may say so, different challenges arise at the same time. We shall then try to deal with that. For, of course, it is a pity that information is now coming in from the side, that it has been mismeasured out there for a long time. We must then get this under control. I think everyone is in complete agreement with this, so that when we sit at the negotiating tables exactly and have to negotiate, we have as proper a basis for decision as possible. I don't think anyone can disagree with that. Is this gonna make you feel worse? Are we overstepping the various principles? No, we don't. As I have already replied to now, there are also in the agricultural and food package, which the author's party is not, after all, part of, other measures with environmentally compensatory, counter-productive measures, so that, of course, we respect the principles that exist, and I am quite sure that the questioner is also aware of this. We in the Left do not want to undermine the environment either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131602	Mrs Trine Torp wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131607	Well, I am not asking either about the agricultural package or whether there are any principles being observed. I am simply asking specifically: is this bill giving more pollution out in our aquatic environment, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131621	Then what I am explaining is that in the Left we do not want to undermine the environment either. And, of course, we have taken that into account and secured, as I have already indicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131627	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316131635	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here is to allow the authorities to authorise aquaculture and aquaculture companies to derive more nitrogen so that more edible fish can be reared in cages at sea or on land. In the Enhedslisten, we are strongly opposed to allowing increased pollution of our already vulnerable and heavily burdened sea areas. For 30 years, according to the aquatic environment plan, the aim has been to reduce the environmental impact in marine waters. In some places we now see slight progress. Water becomes clearer, eelgrass and birds return, nature is on its way to recovery. Elsewhere we still do not see progress. There we continue to experience oxygen loss and fish death. And what should be obvious to everyone is that nature and the sea around Denmark are not yet ready for an increase in pollution, on the contrary. Increasing pollution of our coastal waters cannot be allowed in view of their current state of the environment. I think that is as simple as that. In addition, we have recently learned that the measurements of nitrogen pollution in our marine environment, in our nature, are subject to serious errors. The load is higher than we have previously thought. This is due to a measurement error in a laboratory, but nevertheless it is something we need to take stock of and something we need to act on in the Folketing. And we must of course note that this bill is something that has been part of the government's agricultural package from 2016, and therefore it also came on the legislative programme long before we knew about the erroneous measurements, which is a recognition of relatively recent date. That is why I believe that with the new recognition, with the new knowledge we have, that the burden in the sea areas is higher than we thought, this bill should be withdrawn. It is in the eyes of Enhedslisten the only responsible consequence. As I have said, this is simply because nitrogen pollution in the sea areas is much higher than we have previously thought, and that is why, regardless of how you turn the figures, there is no room for increased emissions, precisely when we have been underestimating the state of pollution in the sea areas for years. So a permit for increased pollution can almost nothing but impair the environmental state. I really think that Randers Municipality, which has provided a consultation response to the bill, is making a really important point, because they point out that if you let go of even more marine farms and thus more pollution off the coast of Djursland, it will also adversely affect Randers Fjord. And it seems strange when society uses such vast resources to reduce pollution from wastewater treatment and to impose nitrogen reductions on agriculture. Where is the reason why everyone else has to work hard to reduce their pollution, while the marine companies are allowed to increase the level of pollution, especially when we are still miles away from achieving our goals that we are obliged to achieve? So, basically, I think that this bill puts us at odds with the environmental rules we have to comply with, because it will increase the pollution of our nature and marine environment to the detriment of all of us and, of course, especially for the people who live in the places where these aquaculture companies are being set up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132025	Thank you to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Back, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132032	Thank you very much. In these years, we are experiencing massive growth in aquaculture around the world, among other things. Aquaculture production in Asia. I have not yet been on a study trip to Asia to look at aquaculture production, but it could be that we should do so so that the committee could see for itself how aquaculture production is taking place in that part of the world. Only a few percent of the global aquaculture production takes place within the EU, and therefore there are not quite so many opportunities to go on a study trip and look at aquaculture production in Europe. In general, however, it can be said that the EU's self-sufficiency in fishery products is decreasing. Indeed, the European Union is the world's largest importer of fishery products, and in 2016 it gave the EU a trade deficit of around 40 billion. kr. That is why it has long been a political desire of the Liberal Alliance to increase aquaculture production in the EU and, in particular, to increase aquaculture in Denmark. Growth in aquaculture can reduce the pressure on wild fish stocks, and we have had a lot of discussions on fisheries policy in Denmark recently. Increasing the growth of aquaculture can also reduce the dependence on imports, as I have already mentioned, of fishery products from outside the European Union. And then it can contribute to the growth of rural areas in Denmark. There is broad agreement that the main reason for the lack of growth in the EU's aquaculture sector is poor or worse framework conditions. Denmark actually has quite a lot of potential for the development of aquaculture, and in aquaculture we are, as in so many areas, a leader in the development of new technology and new feed types and others. Unfortunately, however, the restriction of access to nutrient emissions is an essential barrier to the growth of aquaculture in Denmark. The draft law introduces an authorisation so that within the framework of the Law on Water Planning and the Law on Marine Strategy, a given amount of nitrogen can be reserved for discharges from certain fish farms and aquaculture. For the extension of existing or the establishment of new farms, production will be required to be converted to a so-called model farm, i.e. the use of ponds with a certain level of environmental and resource efficiency. The draft law here, L 169, can thus help to support growth through structural development through conversion to larger and more resource-efficient pond farms. And it can support that already existing fish farms receive environmental approval, and it can help to exploit the potential of our aquaculture sector. That is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132420	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132424	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that pollution is greater than we thought it was and that the marine environment is burdened? One can easily have visions for the aquaculture sector, but we also have a responsibility to take care of our marine environment and our nature, and since pollution is greater than we thought it was, where is it that the rapporteur sees the room for manoeuvre for which this bill is to be approved?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132451	I think I will start by completely challenging the use of the term pollution here. This is a matter of nitrogen emissions, and this is what I think I would call an environmental policy space for nitrogen; it is therefore a question of making an environmental policy reserve for emissions for the development of aquaculture in Denmark. It is a political wish, it is for the Liberal Alliance, and I know it is for a number of other parties too, and it is precisely because, as I said at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, we do not actually have any control over aquaculture production, for example. Asia. In other words, the food we import into Europe is, in my opinion, produced under much more environmentally harmful conditions than they would be if we produced it in Denmark. And that is why, in the interests of the environment in general, we have a global desire in the Liberal Alliance to promote aquaculture in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132558	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132601	I think we're out in the very big abstractions here. The rapporteur understands that people living in Djursland and people living at Randers Fjord must live with the consequences of allowing increased emissions, for example. in the sea areas there, doesn't really care what's going on in Asia? After all, we have to take responsibility for the environment and nature for which we are responsible, and this is it. And nitrogen emissions, let us call it that, are too high in relation to what nature and the environment can absorb and transpose, and that is why it needs to be brought down, and therefore there is an obvious dilemma in the fact that we are currently dealing with a legislative proposal that increases pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132640	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132643	Now I am living in East Jutland myself, and I am certainly convinced that there are no Eastern giants who do not care what the situation is like in Asia. However, it is clear that there is a closer relationship to how the aquatic environment, the marine environment and nature in general have it locally where you live, but what is at issue here is that we have reserved a quantity of nitrogen for discharges into the food and agriculture package and the aquaculture growth plan in Denmark, and that measures have also been incorporated in this context to reduce nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132714	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132720	We could, of course, have a debate here, and we have done a little about the aquaculture industry. In our view, to be brief, the future lies in the industry of land-based facilities where there is built-in purification. And I know you try to do that in some places, and that's where I see a future. But this proposal is not really about it. It is about whether we should grant permission for the release of nitrogen and whether we should reserve an extra pool in a situation where we do not actually have a room for manoeuvre, and where we have also been told recently that a miscalculation has been made for a number of years, so that we actually have a higher level of pollution than we had expected. So that will be a clear no from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132816	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. We move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316132824	I think we are in a rather serious situation and I would like to make a speech for all those who intend to vote in favour of this bill. You are currently guilty of going out and adopting with open eyes something that is likely to do great damage to our marine environment and that may prove to be in direct conflict with the legislation that we have made together with other countries and bound ourselves to, but still go into it with open eyes. Although you have been told that there has been a wrong measurement in the water and that pollution is probably 10%. higher than you thought, you're gonna go on with this bill anyway right now. I think this is serious. One thing is that wrong measurements have been made. It may be said that it is difficult to blame the current minister and the majority for miscalculating. What matters is what you do when you find a mistake like this. The important thing is that you do everything you can to correct it, and when you are responsible for something as important as our marine environment, where you have to avoid oxygen loss and where you have to make sure that there can be fish and plants, that there can be these seas in which fishermen can catch their fish, then it is also crucial what you do when you find such a mistake. We have found out what the level of pollution is and it is simply the worst news in recent times that it is significantly higher than we thought it was. We all agree on that. Those who are most concerned about the environment and those who are most concerned about agriculture and aquaculture agree on this. We agree that this is an incredibly unhappy situation. We do not then agree on whether, when we talk about our garden having this state of affairs, there is some environmental room for manoeuvre. The government believes that, and we have discussed a lot about whether it is there or not. I very much doubt it is there. But when it disappears with one, because one has measured incorrectly, how can one continue to think that there should be somewhere where there might be room for more nitrogen out in our garden? Where does this room for manoeuvre arise? It's gone. It's been taken away. So I just want to say to everyone who thinks that they can now vote in favour of that bill, because they have promised in the past that something very serious has happened since. It has been found that reality looks quite different than you thought. So if we are concerned about our seas, if we are concerned about the future of our children, if we are concerned that there should be fish in the seas and that there should be life, then we must be responsible now and say: the time is not enough to adopt this proposal. Then I don't really care what you think about a profession that I also have a lot of tricks about. I think aquaculture is an exciting profession. I think in particular that what you can do on land is really exciting. I think the technology we have is important. But when reality looks so distinctly different than you thought when you made this deal, you can't just go on with the legislation without taking responsibility. So it is a clear no from the Radical Left and a clear indication to everyone else that we are watching which one of you is now voting in favour of this. And you do it with open eyes, knowing that we have just been told that it is much worse in our marine environment than we had thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133131	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133138	The SF is fundamentally opposed to the proposal because there is a deliberate possibility of increasing pollution by nitrogen and phosphorus and, in the case of marine agriculture, also with medicinal residues and biocides. Firstly, marine farming is an appendage, both in terms of economic policy and in terms of technology. The development of aquaculture takes place on land, and it should also do so in Denmark. We are therefore, as a starting point, in favour of the establishment of recirculating land-based aquaculture, but there are several problems with this bill. We do not know whether it is legal in relation to EU legislation and sustainable in relation to HELCOM. This is formally unresolved, but we know at least the Baltic States' opposition to the Danish plans to increase pollution in Kattegat, and we know that the Commission will not take a position on those plans until there is a specific authorisation or guidance. Secondly, there is another layer on the already very complex environmental legislation because the government wants to promote a particular profession at the expense of others. What happens when the quota is exhausted and when we have to start the final reductions in 2021? Do the land-based plants have to close down and the investment has to be wasted? Or should agriculture and cities reduce even more? Then, as others have pointed out, there is the whole uncertainty about the Danish figures for the aquatic environment and the preconditions for the agricultural package. So that makes the timing of this bill rather problematic, so SF can't support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133333	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133341	Thank you. After all, with the legislative proposal we are debating today, we are implementing an element from the 2015 agricultural package and the agreement on aquaculture that was made in 2016. We create a 423 t nitrogen pool that can be phased in over 4 years and that will target the modern resource-efficient and environmentally friendly plants. We are therefore making a change which is moving in a more environmentally friendly direction, which is to ensure that the environmental impact per year. Unity is being reduced. As the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Simon Kollerup, mentioned, is a pool made here, but there's no guarantee that it's equal to an automatic coinage of this pool. The environmental approval authority, which in this case is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, will have to continue to assess whether authorisation can be granted in individual cases. This must be done with respect for the environmental objectives and actions of the marine strategy and taking into account the Natura 2000 areas for which we have a special responsibility. So it is unknown at this stage how many permits can actually be granted at all. Then there has been a lot of writing in recent weeks about these laboratory errors, and I just have to say that I take this very seriously. It is so unpleasant that as a politician one cannot be trusted that the data presented are correct. As several people have also pointed out in the Chamber today, one cannot make a single minister or employee responsible for it, because there is a laboratory that has failed, there is a supervisory authority that has failed, there are very many who have failed in this. It is clear that we have a political responsibility not to fail in this matter too, and that is why we must follow up on the mistakes that have been made and on the consequences that will have in the aquatic environment. I have to admit that I think this is insanely technical, and I have to admit that I find it insanely difficult to have an overview of exactly the impact on the type of watercourses that these calculations have been made. Therefore, I also went to the technical review that was in this area the other day, and there were some very talented researchers from Aarhus University who presented it to the best of their ability, but I just have to admit that it left me with even more questions than answers, and it basically only made me more confused. That is why I have also asked for an extra technical review to try to understand this in detail, because, in the light of the laboratory errors that have occurred, I have serious doubts as to what waters are being affected in what way, and therefore I also find it very difficult to see what the consequences are in relation to the legislative proposal we are dealing with today. I have been assured that it does not have any influence here, because these 423 tonnes have been taken into account in the other context, and it is clear that when I am informed of this, I believe on the basis of that. It's a natural principle I have, but on the other hand, I just have to say that I just have to dig myself further in these numbers myself. The Conservative People's Party attaches great importance to ensuring that we support this aquaculture, the growth we are experiencing, and that, at the same time, we have it transformed into as little environmental stress as possible. There should be no doubt about that, but consideration of the aquatic environment also weighs very, very heavily on us. There are rapporteurs who have pointed out in the past whether this could be contrary to various forms of EU regulation, etc. To that I would just like to say that I do not believe that cases will be brought before the Parliamentary Chamber by a ministry if it is clearly judged that this would be contrary to a lot of EU regulation. I simply could not imagine it being done, nor have I seen any signs or evidence that this would be the case. And should there be criticism from the European Union, or should it be pointed out that we are violating some of our obligations, then the system is in such a way that it is not really under discussion: then we have a responsibility to act politically and take responsibility. But I'm trying and it's a rather dangerous strategy; I'm gonna be honest and say that I'm still missing some of the professional overview in relation to these laboratory errors and how it goes in and affects the bill we're dealing with today, but I've been assured that the increased emissions you're allowing with this bill are being compensated elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133837	There are a number of brief comments, and that is first Mrs Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133841	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech and for a very liberating honesty. I think we are all in a situation where we can see that the whole requirement for regulation, both of agriculture and of the aquaculture industry, has in fact been based on a basis that was erroneous. Quite intuitively and logically, this should only lead to a rethinking of some of the strategies and some of the permits for excess emissions, and I also think it is very good if the rapporteur has asked for an additional technical review. I hope there are more of us who will be able to participate, because I think it would be good for all of us to get deeper into understanding what this really has to do with consequences. So, actually, I'd just like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133927	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133931	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133934	I was thinking exactly the same thing. Thanks for the honesty. The rapporteur says that we lack the overview and the consequences and the experience, and that is what the rapporteur would like to see before taking a position on this bill. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316133948	As I said in my speech, I have received the message from the Minister and from the Ministry that this has nothing to do with the laboratory errors that have happened. This is running in a closed circuit, and it doesn't affect this case, which is why our starting point is, of course, that we support this bill. But I myself have some intuitive questions that are pushing my way around and that make it difficult for me to see how things can really be connected. Our starting point is, of course, that this is a bill coming from the government, and as we are part of the government, I feel safe about what I've been told by the ministry, but I have a need to dig deeper into these numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134028	Mrs. Ida Auken again or...?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134034	So the rapporteur is willing to adopt this bill, even though we do not yet have an overview of the consequences of this error. After all, the Minister will not do so for a year, but will he nevertheless be willing to vote in favour of this bill by the Conservatives, even if you do not have the overview of what mistakes have been made? That is where responsibility is now being assumed. I just want the rapporteur to acknowledge that it is, of course, responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134108	I could already sense in Mrs Ida Auken's rapporteur's speech that, as usual, everything and everyone about liability has been delayed, but we are now so used to it. We are not doing anything in the third reading today, we are doing something in the first reading. I've been promised a technical review. It will, of course, come before we have a third reading, and I am quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134129	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134134	I would like to ask you something else, but thank you for your openness. I would like to ask: is there really any need for room for manoeuvre if we are going to help this industry? It is the case that we have a number of marine farms. They are located in the open sea, and it is really difficult to control pollution from such sea farms, because it is in the nature of things they lie out in the open water, and some of the feed etc. Going straight through. What has great prospects and is on our way to Denmark is to move marine farms on land, just as we have done with fish farms, because there you can control things that can be recycled 100 times. You can clean up and in this way you can actually help an exciting industry with high technology, development, technology exports and a very low level of pollution, so we do not need this discussion at all, whether we should pollute any more. Wasn't that a much better way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134236	Well, we see that there are some who choose to change and choose to go that way forward. As far as I can understand, it is also somewhat more expensive, and it is somewhat more difficult to make the economy stick together in this type of plant • that is clearly the view I have and it probably has an impact on how fast the development is going to go. However, it is clear that we must always do what we can to support politically that we produce in the most sustainable way, and to promote that it is the type of production that applies that we provide the best framework conditions for. That will be my starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134306	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134310	Well, the strength of us in Denmark is often that we can develop the next, that we can develop the green solutions. I simply do not believe that there is potential in open sea farming at sea to be so much better that it will be battling. So I'm thinking that we have a win-win solution if we say: It's history, it pollutes too much, no matter how good you are at optimizing out there, but there's a huge potential in selling these solutions to the whole world with marine and pond farming on land with purification.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134345	It may be true that there is great potential, but as far as I am informed, it is still very costly to do so, and that is what is in the way of people not doing it today. That is just the way it is, when something is marked by the market, that things must be able to work together economically before it becomes the form of production that is used, and that is a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134409	Negotiation is important for the Folketing, but one brief comment remains. I was just trying to keep this conversation quiet. It's very annoying when it's this close. The last one with a brief comment that I have noted is Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134423	Thank you for that and thank you for a wonderful speech by the rapporteur. I like it when we dare to be honest about the things that may be quite difficult to see through, and I hope that was also shown a little by my own rapporteur's speech. What I might like to ask in this specific context is what the Conservative People's Party is doing now: what has been done by the Conservatives to make sure that we will be able to adopt this law, in the light of the new information that has emerged? Because I think the rapporteur is right to say that such a bill is not put forward here if we know that we are using a problem, but the draft law was put forward long before we knew about the problem. So what have the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party done to ensure that we can adopt the law within the new framework, which is, like, set up with this information? I heard the rapporteur refer to some sort of closed circuit, and now I want to take that honest strategy and say that I do not understand it. I don't know what kind of closed circuit makes it possible to protect this. In any case, I hope that the rapporteur will take me at his fingertips to the extra technical review, because I certainly need to do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134534	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134536	I must admit that it is not because the Conservative People's Party has managed to do something extraordinary since we learned about these laboratory errors that we are standing in this Chamber today. But it is also only 2 days since I was at the technical examination that has been with Aarhus University, where I really had a hope that I could learn more about things, but unfortunately experienced confusion at a higher level. The people who presented were very, very talented and qualified, that is, very, very talented people, so it is not their fault. It's probably more like it was very, very complicated cases. I think the term closed circuitry was a wrong expression on my part. It should probably have been dealt with independently. What I basically find difficult and lacking in understanding is what types of water are being affected to what extent as a consequence of the errors detected in laboratories. That's the overview I'm missing yet, and I've been assured that these 423 tonnes aren't affected by those laboratory errors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134645	Thank you. Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134648	I totally agree. One sometimes sits for technical reviews and is quite sure that it is certainly not the intermediary who does not understand his material, but sometimes we can think that it is ourselves that it is wrong with us. I think we'll just have to insist a little that it isn't. It is important that we in the Folketing understand these matters, and that is why I just hope, as I say, that the rapporteur will take me with him for that technical examination. Because it is important for the work we are doing in the Folketing that, as the rapporteur also says, we can rely on that data and that, moreover, we feel prepared to deal with them politically afterwards. So I'm not quite sure I understood the translation of the closed circuit. It may come in the technical review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134730	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134732	But we also have to say that there is, of course, a political element in this, and we cannot expect it to be addressed by technical examination. However, in order for the political debate to take place, we need to have the base in place, and when the base is not yet in place, I think it has been impossible to take political discussions. I think that is perhaps also a detail that should be mentioned in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134756	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134802	Thank you for that President, and thank you for your words. It is a pity at a time of fake news that rapporteurs from the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten mix everything together when they really both know how the world is. These studies, which have just come out, have nothing to do with the food and agriculture package's accounts. They are compensated for in the food and agriculture package. These studies, which go back ten years, have nothing to do with this. Therefore, we can safely translate the 423 tonnes, which is why we can safely make nitrogen pools for our aquaculture. What's weird is that it's like you're sitting on this high moral horse in those parties. You want a good environment globally and you want aquaculture because it is the least possible environmental impact, just not right here. Finally, let us have it in Asia, where you are making a mess of the environment and where you are not in control. Then the fish can come to Denmark, and then we can have a global environmental impact, but then you can sit here with clean hands. That's what makes it almost impossible to make politics with both the Radical Left and sometimes the Enhedslisten, because you sit and act in this very, very strange way. We translate 423 tonnes of nitrogen implicitly into the food and agriculture package. Then you can easily say from the left that you can't even do that. Everything can be questioned, but let me just remind you that the European Commission has accepted the way in which we act, and that is in keeping with the directive, and that is something that the Radicals usually support. So I don't have any worries about this. Are we going to get to the bottom of the 10 years of failure in relation to the environmental studies that have been carried out with the aquatic environment? Yes, we do, because it's a disaster. But it has nothing to do with these 423 tonnes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134952	There are brief comments. The first one is for Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316134958	It is not long ago that the Minister for the Environment had to withdraw the claim he then made again, that is, that the EU has approved the Danish water plans and approved what we are doing. So it is fine that the Minister stands from the Parliament's platform and repeats the misdirection of the population. But I just have one simple question: does the environmental space exist in reality, or does it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135022	I didn't say "approved" to Mrs. Ida Auken. I said that they have accepted what we are doing. That's why they've given us a cattle exemption. Therefore, no letters have been sent which have not been implemented. So what Mrs Ida Auken says is not true. So Mrs. Ida Auken is now directly lying to the Folketing. That's very problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135043	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135045	I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked: Is there an environmental space out there in the real world? Is it out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135054	Mrs Ida Auken knows very well how we work under HELCOM. For Mrs Ida Auken himself, when Mrs Ida Auken was Minister for the Environment, made a terrible agreement in 2013, in which she let the largest emitter to HELCOM, namely Poland, not have to be obliged to counter her own emissions, while Mrs Ida Auken has shown that Denmark could reduce further. This is one of the biggest failures in environmental policy in the Baltic Sea, as Mrs Ida Auken has done. And yes, Mrs Ida Auken has acknowledged that HELCOM has that principle, so Mrs Ida Auken knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135130	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135132	I'd like to follow up on that. What is being asked is nature, the environment. Is there room for manoeuvre in the Danish nature and the Danish environment that the minister wants to use with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135144	423 tonnes of nitrogen have been compensated for in the food and agriculture package. The room for manoeuvre in HELCOM has nothing to do with this. It is a recognised principle, and since all parties in the Folketing support the HELCOM principle, everyone knows that this is the way to act there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135159	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135201	According to the directives that we are obliged to comply with, we must not degrade the state of the environment, and therefore the room for manoeuvre in nature and the environment is not relevant to all sorts of HELCOM stuff. I ask quite specifically and directly: is this room for manoeuvre in reality, in the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135216	There's nothing about HELCOM stuff here. Here we live up to the international commitments we have as a country. We do so under the auspices of the Marine Strategy Directive, and we do so under the auspices of HELCOM. And these 423 tonnes are compensated for in the food and agriculture package, completely by the book. That is why we have an exemption for cattle, and that is why things are running as they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135234	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135238	The Minister says that the food and agriculture package has been accepted by the European Commission. That is why, I think, a one-year cattle exemption has been put in place. But then the Minister also says that afterwards this one has arrived, I think, is the Minister's own words: 'environmental disaster', i.e. error measurements for 10 years, which have in fact drawn a shine or at least overestimated how well things went out there, and thus also somewhere overestimated how much space there was to relax in different contexts. That is why I am asking the question now. After the cattle exemption and after the things that have brought things about about the food and agriculture package, this new environmental disaster will come up. I say quite frankly that I just cannot understand why one can be so sure that in it and I say that this is also what we need in any case to clarify in the further work of the committee. How can we be sure that there is room for this relaxation now that the environmental disaster has arrived after the cattle exemption has been settled?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135349	Because the environmental disaster is that for ten years we have had measurements, we have not been able to count on a hundred percent that is the environmental disaster. Now we have asked Aarhus University to make it possible to make what the real picture we are going to have is. And if it turns out that there are some percentages that are wrong there, yes, then we have to take that into account in relation to the third planning period that we are going into, in the years 2021-2027 and deal with the environmental challenge there. Therefore, there is nothing in the current planning period for the years 2015-2021, where we have just the food and agriculture package and where there is an intrinsic compensation compared to 423 tonnes, which means that we have to do something different.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135426	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135428	Of course, I would like to know whether the Minister has also confirmed with the EU system, that is to say that this is the way to work with it. I ask, of course, because I know that the agreement that was made on targeted regulation decided to carry out a mid-term review during the current planning period, which would take due account of if there were instruments that did not work as intended, or concessions that were assessed too low in relation to what they were. That is why I would just like the Minister to say today that the current state of the environment will also be taken into account in the light of the environmental disaster and the miscalculations. Perhaps the Minister could say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135508	It is my experience and that of the government that, with the compensation that lies in the food and agriculture package, this is a calculation that goes up. What would then appear in the mid-term review, which we are obliged to do by the directive, will then be seen when we reach the mid-term review, but that does not change us in relation to the nitrogen quota for marine farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135530	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135534	I would like to ask the Minister whether he can confirm that nitrogen is nitrogen. This may sound like a rather strange question, but what I mean by it is that it can be very difficult in nature for natural organisms to know the difference between nitrogen coming from an agricultural package agreement and nitrogen coming from some marine farms or some other type of nitrogen. If we look at the overall ecological state of coastal waters, such as: in connection with this bill is reproduced in the sports fishermen's consultation answer, but as is well known, we can see that there is a really bad state out there. This means that when we pour out more nitrogen no matter where it comes from, the condition will be even worse. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135628	Well, I can confirm that nitrogen is nitrogen. I can confirm that, but I can't confirm that it's a matter of pouring nitrogen into the aquatic environment, as Mr. Christian Poll describes it. We have a fantastic setup to deal with environmental impacts in relation to environmental approval, etc., but it is clear that what is problematic is not the 423 tonnes; the problem is some environmental studies, some environmental reports that have been made over 10 years, which have proved not to be appropriate. But these are two separate cases, and that is also why we can safely translate the 423 tonnes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135700	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135702	That is precisely what I wanted to question with regard to the two separate cases, because nitrogen is nitrogen. That is why it is not two separate cases, but one single case. As I see this map of the overall ecological state of coastal waters, there is no room for manoeuvre, and if you put more nitrogen there one way or the other or the third way, then things are going backwards, and that cannot be done in relation to our directive obligations in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135729	That is also why it is a directive that we do what we do in terms of implementing this nitrogen pool, because it is within the framework of our food and agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135739	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135742	The Minister must therefore make something clear to me. If an agricultural package has been drawn up on the basis of calculations which do not prove to be valid, how can it be said that it has no impact, that is to say separate from the decision to adopt a legislative proposal which involves the discharge of more nitrogen? That is one question. The second is that the Minister refers to the fact that if it doesn't turn out to be right anyway, and we get to the third planning period that I hear at least what the minister says, then you have to look at it there. I would just like to ask: what are some industries that will then help to reduce the level at that time? Is it agriculture? Is that the aquaculture? Are those the water companies? Or who is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135837	Thank you for the questions. Well, it is a perfectly common premise in our work on the river basin management plans that we take stock. If it turns out that you don't achieve the goals you have to achieve also because it's a long time and process to get the effects of the bets you make then you regulate to. That is why we have different water planning periods and are doing mid-term evaluation, etc. Then we have to look at whether there are certain parts of our aquatic environment where we do not achieve what we have to do, because then we are obliged to achieve what we have to do. That would mean, for example: reinforced phosphorus ceilings, reduction of nitrogen or the like, just as we see in the livestock regulation we have made. So that's the way you act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135916	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135918	But what I do not understand is that in this planning period we are actually faced with an uncertainty, a great deal of serious uncertainty, and the minister is not responsible for the fact that these figures have been wrong. Why is it that we should not put the brakes on and say that we will have to know the state of the environment before we proceed with any plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316135943	Because there is that uncertainty all the time in the river basin planning work. When we set a process in motion in the period 2015-2021, we need to reduce a measure of nitrogen, phosphorus. We set aside, I think, 4.2 billion. kr. for that, but we don't know for sure if we're going to achieve those goals. And that is why we are looking at this in a process over the years and that we can move the stakes, because that is what is within the directive, namely that we can do it and that is why we have postponed 6,200 tonnes to the third planning period. Then it is stopped in the face of economic impact, of environmental impact and of directive provisions, and that is how the setup is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316140025	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180316140037	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 20 March at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
