ParlaMint-DK_20180531100007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100018	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 68 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Morten Bødskov (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Rosa Lund (EL), Villum Christensen (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 68 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100125	The negotiations have been concluded and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for adoption tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 69 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Morten Bødskov (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Rosa Lund (EL), Villum Christensen (LA), Josephine Fock (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote will start now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 69 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100226	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100255	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100320	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. There are some who wish to comment on the proposal. It's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100333	Thank you, President. Suggestions L 165 is a large mixed land trade, you might say, and SF supports most of it. We have a challenge about Energinet.dk, and I hope that the Minister will take the floor and answer a question which, of course, is about us having as much supply as possible, but that we should not, of course, be offered in places where it can be said that it will just be costly for consumers. For the crucial thing for SF is that this ends up being cheaper for consumers at the long end. So I would like to put the Minister on the floor, because we have not been able to clarify that either in committee or in the questions. That is why I am asking for the indulgence of Things on this very question, because of course we should not make tenders in those situations where there really is only one person who can bid, and that would therefore be too costly for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100426	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100429	Thank you. After all, we have had a great deal of doubt about this proposal because it has a very technical nature and it is difficult to see through precisely the circumstances mentioned by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. On the basis of a number of questions that have been asked and the debate we have had, our position will be to vote yellow on this proposal. This is because we are in favour of most of it, but we do not quite see that there is full certainty that the investments and actions that Energinet has made over time will be seen as the actions they are, namely to stabilise the security of energy supply in the system and that the power plants may be given preferential treatment. So it's going to be yellow on our side, because then we have the opportunity to open up and look at it and maybe make some changes at a later stage, so this is going to be more fair for everyone in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100535	Thank you. Then the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate has taken up the challenge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100540	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr. Christian Poll for the questions. I can assure Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that the proposal does not introduce any obligation to supply services for security of supply. The draft law requires market-based solutions that provide fair price signals so that the market can also provide electricity security by 2030. At the same time, I must stress that consumers will not be put at a disadvantage by this legislative proposal. On the contrary, it is intended to ensure a more cost-effective provision of security of supply to the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100627	There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party JensJoel
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100631	Thank you. It is simply because we in the Social Democratic Party have shared the concern that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also raised. So I would like to acknowledge that the Minister here makes it clear that there is, like there is no compulsory supply of services to ensure security of supply, and that it is the consumers and the costs that are, as it were, at the centre. At any rate, I can promise that the Social Democrats will also be behind this with that addition, and we will follow up on the fact that it will also be translated into the announcements which I hope the Minister will also let us take a look at when we move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100708	I would like to thank you for that, and I would like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100712	No one else has wished to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100721	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 5 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100752	The negotiations are primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? This does not seem to be the case, and then the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100814	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100825	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100832	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100906	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100922	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531100957	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101008	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour, 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101041	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101059	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour, 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101132	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101149	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour, 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101223	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101238	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101330	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101419	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101451	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101506	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 83 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101537	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101603	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101634	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Martin Henriksen wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101650	Thank you. It is very good that the Folketing ends the session by adopting a ban on wearing burka and niqab in public spaces, the so-called cover ban. Burka and niqab are not Danish, and it will never be Danish. It is therefore incredibly valuable for us as legislators to go in and say clearly from the perspective of society, women's vision and human vision behind the burka and the niqab. When the bill is passed, official Denmark will distance itself, not only with words, but also with action to political Islam. In this way, the Folketing makes it clear to everyone that the form of extremism and brainwashing expressed by the burka and niqab is unacceptable in Denmark. It is incompatible with Danish culture. It is crucial for people's interaction and cohabitation in Denmark that you do not hide your face or identity from your fellow citizens. The Danish People's Party made back in 2009 the first proposal to ban burka and niqab in public spaces, so it has taken almost 10 years to convince a majority in the Folketing that we should ban, among other things. burka and niqab in public space. It now falls into place, and the Danish People's Party believes that the Danish Parliament should continue its work on new measures against the Islamisation of Denmark. So, in addition to the fact that we in the Danish People's Party naturally thank the Minister for the fact that a majority now supports a ban, we also hope that the other parties will continue to work on this agenda in the future. But today we say to those who wear burka and niqab: Take it off, it does not belong in our country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101836	Thank you. Since no one else wanted to speak, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101843	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote ends in favour of 75 (S, DF, V, Merete Riisager (LA), Henrik Dahl (LA) and KF), against 30 (Mette Gjerskov (S), EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101917	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531101933	The final adoption of the draft law can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102012	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102031	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102112	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102130	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102202	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102225	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote in a moment. The vote is now closed. In favour of 21 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102315	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (ALT), against 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102418	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102449	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102507	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of voting 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 83 (S, DF, V, LA, KF and 2 (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102545	It's not free speech yet! Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102611	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. If no one objects, I would ask colleagues to be more quiet so that we can move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102657	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102720	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102748	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102805	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3 by a majority (S, DF, EL and SF), joined by a minority (other committee)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102832	Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102853	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102913	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Friday 1 June 2018. I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531102941	Thank you. For a number of years now, we have been discussing this agreement with Turkey, that is, the EU refugee agreement with Turkey. Now some new revelations have come out in the press in early spring, which is why we have asked this question, which reads: "What is the Government's response to the information that Denmark and the EU have funded Turkish border guards on the border with Syria, what does the government intend to do to follow up the matter and give rise to a reconsideration of Denmark's support for the EU-Turkey agreement? We believe it is an important matter also to discuss here in the Danish Parliament, where we, all parties, can take the discussion together, as it is a big and very important agreement, which it also seems to be copying in many other places, or which one has a desire to copy. That is why we have called for this question and we are very much looking forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531103039	Thank you. And then it is the Foreign Minister's turn to answer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531103048	Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity for a good discussion of the EU's cooperation with Turkey, among others. the so-called Turkey Facility. As you know, the Government was given a mandate on 17 April for the second instalment of the financing of the Turkey Facility. Today, in this Chamber, we have the opportunity to discuss aspects other than funding, and I am very pleased with that, because let me make this quite clear at the outset: the Turkish facility is helping to solve a major challenge for both the European Union and Turkey. For the record, let me outline the backdrop for the facility. In the second half of 2015, we were in the midst of a violent refugee and migrant crisis. There were major drowning accidents in the Mediterranean, overcrowded railway stations in Europe and people who went on the European and Danish motorways. The situation was not under control and it was a huge challenge for the countries of Europe and for the European Union to deal with the pressure. In 2015 alone, 885,000 refugees and migrants arrived on the eastern Mediterranean route. It was against this background that, at the October 2015 European Council, the European Union drew up and approved a joint action plan for cooperation with Turkey in dealing with the situation. The action plan was supplemented in March 2016 by the so-called EU-Turkey Declaration, and on this basis the facility began its work. Since then, the whole first installment is approx. 3 billion The euro has been put into effect. The facility has helped to stem the flow of refugees and migration from Turkey to Europe. It has helped a very large number of refugees in Turkey to improve their lives, and it is one of the most important efforts that the European Union has undertaken in response to the crisis. And then it has helped destroy the business model of the smugglers. It is a good agreement for the EU and Turkey and for Denmark. The facility has a clear humanitarian objective, the projects go, among other things. In addition to humanitarian aid and the training of refugees in Turkey. Let me briefly mention some of the results achieved so far. Until February 2018, 1.2 million of the most vulnerable refugees in Turkey had received financial assistance from the facility through an emergency safety net. In addition, over 310,000 of the most vulnerable refugees have received basic medical care during the same period. Among the most vulnerable group of refugees, almost 18,000 pregnant women have received medical assistance before and after their birth. On the education side, the goal is that up to half a million Syrian refugee children should receive educational material. More than 310,000 children have received Turkish education and more than 10,000 children have received supplementary education so that they could resume their schooling, which had been interrupted by the flight. At the same time, and very important, the agreement has clearly contributed to the marked slowdown in the flow of refugees and irregular migrants using the Eastern Mediterranean route. The figures speak their own clear language: from approx. 885,000 arrivals in 2015 over 182,000 in 2016 to ca. 42,000 in 2017. The dynamics of the agreement and the very effective efforts of the Turkish Coast Guard have meant that far fewer people are moving towards Europe because they know that there is an agreement on return to Turkey. I think that is very important to hold onto. Let me also address here the so-called one to one part of the EU-Turkey agreement, according to which the EU is to re-inhabit one refugee in exchange for Turkey taking one back. It is true that the European Union has re-inhabited more than has been sent back to Turkey. This is partly due to the fact that the Greek asylum system has made it difficult to return a larger number. Of course, we would very much like to see the returns speeded up. I will now respond to the question raised in today's question, and I would like to start by stating that the EU's support for a Turkish border guard on the border with Syria is not part of the Turkish facility. It is funded by EU pre-accession aid to Turkey and dates from before the establishment of the Turkey Facility. This is aid aimed at preventing illegal border crossings and ensuring effective and humanitarian border controls as part of a modern border surveillance system. I know, sir. Søren Søndergaard has been particularly interested in the use of armored vehicles. The European Commission, which is responsible for financing and implementing the project in question, has indicated that they are unarmed vehicles. Most people may be able to understand the need for armored vehicles in such a very troubled border region. The European Commission has also indicated that the project in question is being closely monitored and that, like all EU-funded projects, the project must comply with both EU and international legislation, including respect for human rights. The European Commission has been assured by the Turkish authorities that vehicles are used as agreed. The project in question has also contributed to the removal of more than 25 000 land mines from the border area between Iran and Turkey. This means that the risk of accidents and deaths in attempts to cross borders illegally has been greatly reduced. At the same time, there is no doubt that there are many challenges in cooperation with Turkey. We know the many examples of continuing negative developments in Turkey, and we have talked about them in previous discussions in the Folketing: the reduction of media freedom illustrated by the high number of journalists imprisoned and the closure of independent media; the situation in south-east Turkey; the continued imprisonment of politicians and parliamentarians; the arrests and dismissals of thousands of people; and the continuing state of emergency that provides the framework for all these actions. The deterioration in development has, among other things, been due to: in writing. - (FR) The Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly has put Turkey back under full monitoring, and these are conditions which both Denmark and the European Union are constantly travelling. We are faced with a Turkey moving away from Europe and the European Union and away from the democratic values and standards that EU cooperation stands for. This has also been confirmed in the Commission's latest enlargement package and country report on Turkey. The government is therefore also very clear in its criticism and has come to the conclusion that it is no longer possible to see Turkey as a member of the European Union. That is why the government's position is that EU accession negotiations with Turkey should be stopped altogether. However, Turkey remains an important partner and strategic ally of the European Union, both within NATO cooperation, in the fight against ISIL, in the fight against terrorism and, above all, in the management of migration. Let me conclude by saying that the agreement with Turkey on a limited influx of irregular migrants and on humanitarian aid in Turkey has worked. That is why we must, of course, continue to support the Turkish facility. It is worth recognising that Turkey is making a great and very important effort for millions of refugees from Syria, and we must never see a repeat of the scenes from autumn 2015. This is fundamental to the government, and I am actually completely unaware of an attempt to undermine the agreement and its indisputable positive effect. However, at the same time we can be clear in our criticism of the negative developments in Turkey, and we are. I hope there will be support for the proposed text of adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531103946	Thank you, Minister. This is not the time to ask questions or to make brief comments, because we must start the negotiations first and the rapporteur for the questioners starts the negotiations. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104000	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for your reply. After all, we have been discussing this refugee facility since 2015, when we saw these pictures, which have shocked everyone in Europe, of course also in Denmark, of refugees who went on motorways in Denmark. These are violent images and, of course, we need to react. At the same time, it was seen that Turkey had received very, very many refugees from Syria, and it is quite natural to ask how we can help humanitarianly. What happened, unfortunately, was that humanitarian aid began to be mixed with all sorts of other things. A wider blanket was simply made out of a refugee facility where we can say that, yes, it looks good to help humanitarianly, but it was tied together with accession negotiations, that is, with some of those chapters. At the same time, the European Union did something, and that is what was a little mysterious in my eyes, because Denmark does not recognise Turkey as a safe third country. We cannot send refugees back to Turkey. But it wasn't part of the deal either. It was Greece that was going to do it. Since then, Greek courts have said that they do not see Turkey as a safe third country either. Then there will be some articles here in early spring, among others. Danwatch and in Politiken and in a number of European media with some revelations of what is also connected with this refugee facility, namely some of these pre-accession aid funds. What are they used for? I think, unfortunately, that the articles I was reading only confirmed my worst ideas and actually confirmed something else. I cannot understand why, when we have had regular consultations with various ministers on this and have talked about the very human rights dimension of such an agreement, we have been told that no, we did not really carry out evaluations in this way, so there was not really anything about that. There has also been a written reply from the Minister saying that it is a core principle of human rights, that is, the one with Denmark and the European Union, and that is fine. But it is not in Turkey. And when we can say that Turkey is nodding in its desire to respect human rights, where else do we see them being respected in Turkey? These are some of the questions I think we should ask ourselves when we have this facility, this agreement, which we are also looking at how we can copy it into North African countries. Then I think we have to ask ourselves what it is that should be the cornerstone of the way we make these agreements from the European side. So I think we are seriously challenged with this agreement. I'm seriously worried about the other agreements you're talking about. Because what is constantly being tied together is how we can both help, but at the same time also close the border so that we do not have to face this challenge. But what are we doing to ensure that that limit is closed? What we see in Syria is that a border fence has been built. There are references in all these articles from several European media about refugees being shot at at the border, in other words, being pushed back when they try to flee into Turkey and away from war and civil war in Syria. We simply have to look critically at how we want to live up to these things, how we want to live up to our values, even when it is difficult. Because I understand, as the Minister says, that we should not see these pictures with many, many refugees going through Europe on motorways and highways again. But are we really going to give up basic values that I feel we are doing when I see those revelations in the media about what's going on? I think we should ask ourselves that very, very seriously, and ask: how can we help humanitarianly without suddenly giving an apology to regimes such as Erdogan to pursue the policy that is being conducted to build these border guards and to push refugees back into war zones? That is what we have to ask ourselves. That is why I have also called for this question debate and not just as usual called the Minister in a conciliation, because it is actually because I think that this is something we should discuss together and not necessarily just ask a minister. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative, I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to work to suspend the future disbursement of funds made available in pre-accession assistance to Turkey until the country complies with basic human rights standards and complies with the European Court of Human Rights decisions concerning Turkey. • V 76).
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104537	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104546	Thank you. There is clearly a marked difference here between red block and blue block. For now we have heard in the text of the adoption that three red parties want to change very significantly in relation to the Turkey agreement. And that brings out the whole debate yesterday, because we have a Prime Minister's candidate from the Social Democratic Party who is trying to tell us that there will be no difference in relation to foreign policy if one comes to, but at the same time we have three red parties today, which very, very clearly want to make a fundamental, we have to say change in the whole way in which we have managed and stopped the massive flow of refugees that is there. We will never agree, and that is fair enough, so in a democracy, my question is: how much will you put your foot in the door, so to speak, in relation to a possible forthcoming red majority in this Parliament and ensure that what is being fought for today will also become a reality under any future social democratic government? Because I assume that this fight is not going to stop just because there might be a new majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104651	I do not know whether the questioner has come to include the notes from yesterday's debate, because I thought we heard the question a few times yesterday, and I really think it is a pity, in relation to this question, to bring this question up again about what to do after a choice. The alternative, since you made this deal, has fought against it because we think it's bad... really bad... and we keep doing that, of course, until you fix those things. Because, as I say, humanitarian aid, of course; we can also help Turkey with humanitarian aid, because they are carrying out a huge task. However, this patchwork of compromise on fundamental rights and standards by the European side is not, of course, something that we support. We're fighting that. And it's not about agreeing, but it's actually discussing what kind of principles we want to make these agreements on the basis of. And I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Left asking that instead of some sniper debate from yesterday's closing debate on where red and blue and green parties stand after a choice in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104801	Fortunately, I will have ample opportunity to address this in my rapporteur's speech. And I don't really understand why Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist thinks it's a sniper debate. In fact, I believe that a great many voters, if not all, want to see clarity about what a potential future government means in this matter, because it actually concerns a very, very many people. I understand, then, that it may not be entirely welcome in all parts of the red block, because you want to get another signal on what it is that will be possible to do with a possible forthcoming majority in the red block. This is a completely different discussion, but I do not suppose that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes. So, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has today confirmed that the three strong parties of the red bloc, namely those behind the proposal for adoption, will fight for it here, even if there should be a second majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104848	Now I'm not going to stand here and speak on behalf of Enhedslisten and SF. I have read out a text of adoption on which we agree, and otherwise I am speaking on behalf of the alternative. And the alternative hasn't changed politics when it comes to this deal. This can't be surprising, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that the alternative with the series of consultations and questions and the criticism we have raised in various committees of this, continues to fight against this agreement, which we think is really, really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104913	Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104916	Thank you for the floor. That was a strange remark from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, especially when you consider that DF is also against the facility, so there is no blue majority for it either. But that's the way the world is. I fully share the concerns expressed by the rapporteur about Turkey's behaviour and the way Turkey acts both internally and externally. What is really my question is whether the rapporteur is aware of the projects financed by the refugee facility in such a broad sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531104958	Yes, I have also been looking at the lists of what the funds are used for, which we have received from the Commission, through. What I have just said in my speech is that this is not an agreement that stands quite alone as a pillar, and then there is nothing else around it. We have in the negotiations and that is also what we have from Erdogan's mouth mixed this with a number of other things under a constant threat that if you do not behave properly and do as I say, we can just put the refugees on buses to the border. So, yes, I know what you have specifically in the refugee facility. What we are opposed to is the confusion of things. Again: to help a country that has to undertake a major task in relation to refugees, humanitarianly, we are always in favour, but we are not in favour of tying it up to the fact that border protection is then also being created and refugees pushed back to Syria, which is a war-torn country as we read about it in the overall European press.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105057	I can understand that. What is my concern about the proposal for adoption that is being put forward is that the tool that you then choose to use is to suspend the payment of money for the refugee facility that you want it suspended. And that means that if it happened, there would be a whole series of these projects, which is my point, which is a little bit that this proposal hits those who most need help, those who have the least reason to hit. After all, we are really talking about removing their livelihoods if the text of the proposal for adoption, as it stands, was adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105147	Yes, and large parts of the facility financing, which goes directly to the Turkish Government, are also removed, as can be seen from the list. What's the purpose of this is to stop. How can we go in and work to help humanitarianly without tying it up on all this? It has to be said that the facility negotiated by the European Union, which will now continue with an additional allocation, will double the amount of funding from when the agreement was concluded, we will have to stop to get to where we are helping humanitarianly, but not at the same time allowing Turkey to have the behaviour and, in fact, to stamp out the behaviour of Turkey that we are doing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105232	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105235	Thank you. My question is a little in the wake of Nick Hækkerups. In other words, as others have said, I very much agree with the fundamental dilemmas we face here when we are dealing with a Turkish regime which, to put it mildly, does not move in the right direction and does not always do what we think is right. But I have to say that I am a little shocked by this proposal for adoption, because if we actually implement what the three parties are proposing, it will have dramatic consequences for millions or not millions, but that is to say, there are over a million and a half refugees from Syria in Turkey at the moment. The weakest of them are the ones the facility helps. I understand that we would like to put pressure on Turkey too in many contexts, but to do so by hitting the very weakest refugees in Turkey, I simply do not understand that the alternative can speak up for it. We say yes to increased pressure on Erdogan, yes to discussing the whole, what can be said, EU relations with Turkey, and we have done so in many contexts. However, to withdraw the curtain under the facility, where it is now planned that billions of dollars should be invested in improving the conditions of refugees in Turkey, I simply do not understand that the alternative wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105351	I'll be happy to elaborate on that. This proposal for adoption is not just a pressure on Turkey; it is also a pressure on ourselves, on the European Union, not to outsource a responsibility, as we do with this patchwork of agreements around the facility. If you do this, you have to stop and say: okay, then how can we help really, humanitarianly? I am sure the questioner has read articles from Danwatch on support for armored crew cars, for walls, for the stories we see. That's what we need to stop, and that's what this deal is all about. It's braided like that. And that is why we need to put pressure, including on ourselves, to take real humanitarian responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105443	I mean, as I heard the Secretary of State, he was very clear. What we have heard about armored crew cars and border fences etc. has been taken from so-called accession aid to Turkey, not from the facility. So I could understand if you wanted to suspend pre-accession aid, so not that I would necessarily agree with it, but I would understand that. However, we want to eliminate or suspend the future payment made through the facility, which we have just heard goes to pregnant refugee women, going to give Syrian children a lesson they would otherwise not receive. I mean, I am helping to put pressure on Turkey, on ourselves, on the European Union and on all sorts of others, but why put pressure on the very weakest refugee groups in Turkey? That's just the logic I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105532	I do not think, in fact, that the resemblance that the questioner puts is there either. Because we can easily support humanitarian aid without supporting this agreement, which has been merged with this pre-accession aid and this facility, which is also there when you go through the list from the Commission on what is being supported. So, yes, much is being given to civil society organisations that are in the process of helping humanitarian organisations. And so a great deal of money is also being given to the Turkish Government, to various ministries, where you ask a little what that money is going to do. It doesn't really say that. It is direct support for Erdogan's government. So that is what I think is very important, that is to say, constantly separating it and asking: can we help humanitarianly? We can do that, but let us not confuse it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105616	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105618	Thank you. First of all, I just want to know if Mr. Knox is gonna be okay. Rasmus Nordqvist can confirm that the European Court of Auditors has launched an investigation into the Turkish facility because it does not really know where exactly the money entering the ministries, etc. goes. I just want to confirm that. I wasn't going to take it up, but now that it's taken up, I'd like to do it anyway, so following on from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen's discussion, I would like to ask: is it the view of the alternative that, under a future government, we should work for a greater consequence of our attitude to the Islamist and authoritarian regime in Turkey, that is to say, that we should put an end to the totally ineffective attitude of the current government, where we are always fresh with a critical remark about Turkey, but where we really will not take the step and leave it to any consequences other than that we have announced that Turkey can never become a member, no matter how democratic the country develops? Does the alternative agree that it will be an essential objective of a future government to put an end to the intransigent attitude and, instead of getting a clearer position, which the current government does not have, to the Islamist regime in Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105736	First of all, in relation to the Court of Auditors: yes, I can confirm that, because there are very large parts of this facility payment, where there is just an x-ministerium and then you think so little, what it goes to and where you just can't stand and talk about that it is direct humanitarian action. That is what the Court of Auditors is now looking at, and I am certainly looking forward to doing so. We have asked Turkey several times about these things, and questions are being asked by the European Parliament and other national parliaments, with no real answer but: of course we live up to human rights, period. So in relation to what policy should be pursued towards Turkey, it is the policy of the alternative today and yesterday, and it is also tomorrow that we must, of course, be consistent. It is no use just saying: do not join the EU because what about all the other things where we actually send the money down to Erdogan? What is interesting is that we are not afraid to send money down there while saying: never a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105834	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Nick Hækkerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531105851	Thank you. Turkey has completed an almost 911 km long wall along the border with Syria, which is supposed to be an effective stop to illegal traffic across the border. can stop Syrian warriors and illegal immigrants. Turkey is, in fact, in its right to do so. The problem is that there is much evidence that Turkey is using the wall and, above all, guarding the wall to shoot sharply against refugees seeking protection and using it to remove people's opportunities to seek asylum. The way Turkey is, moreover, acting on the national and international scene over these years, surely it cannot be assumed that it is quite unlikely that such a thing would take place. After all, developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights give rise in every possible way to really serious concerns. Is it, then, a purely Turkish problem, or is it also a matter for the European Union, and is it a matter for Denmark? There is always reason to object when international law is trampled underfoot, as is the case here. And then there is the chin on what has also been done in the past in the debate: the EU has financed 82 armoured vehicles, of which the 24 are supposedly used precisely to guard the border. Moreover, they are financed by what is known as pre-accession aid, which is conditional on the projects complying with both EU and international legislation, including respect for human rights, which we must say again that it is certainly difficult to see that this is the case. There we are in the situation where the Foreign Minister has assured us that the Commission has assured us that the Turkish authorities have assured us that the vehicles are being used as agreed and that the projects are being monitored closely. In the view of the Social Democratic Party, there is reason for us in Denmark to tighten up the bar dunes in relation to Turkey and more substantially and actually insist on respect for international law directly vis-à-vis Turkey, directly through the European Union. But it then leads to the second part of the question debate, namely whether the situation gives rise to a reconsideration of Denmark's support for the Turkey Agreement. Social democracy supports the EU-Turkey agreement. We support the refugee facility and we support its funding. We are doing this because it is a bulwark against migration to Europe, but we are also doing so because the funds in the refugee facility, the 3 billion. The euro, which is now supplemented by a further 3 billion. EUR, is used for humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable refugees and other vulnerable persons, for example: monthly payments to refugees through the World Food Programme, which is the absolute largest single recipient, which provides security for daily needs, protection of girls and women against sexual abuse, supports access to education and non-humanitarian aid goes, for example. for the construction of hospitals which give these refugees access to health care and the construction of schools in areas where there is a high concentration of refugees. And the main beneficiaries of the money as a whole, and this is true, as the Alternative's rapporteur said before, there are also some money that goes through the Turkish administration. So there are organisations such as UNICEF, the Red Cross, the World Food Programme, the World Bank, the ILO and UN Women. Sometimes one can be left with the impression of the debate that the money included in the refugee facility is such things that are just being sent down to Erdogan in trucks, and then he can use it as he pleases. That is not the case. This is money, which is too far, by far the largest part, four fifths, targeted to people in need and, moreover, through organisations in which we in the Folketing are all fundamentally trusted. That is why it is quite wrong for the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Alternative, the Enhedslisten and the SF to put an end to the refugee facility, because it will hit those who most need a protective hand. That is why we cannot support this proposal, and that is why we support the proposal for which we ourselves are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110334	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110338	Thank you. Leave the refugee facility alone, because when we get the report from the European Court of Auditors, it is clear that we can come back to that discussion. It is clear that I believe, and I think the other two parties do, that it is possible to give those organisations, Mr President. Nick Hækkerup mentions, support directly to perform the work. We do not really need a facility with Turkey for this. There are plenty of places where we provide support directly to humanitarian organisations. But again, leave it alone. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your speech, which Mr. Nick Hækkerup argued. I think it was laudablely clear in that it must of course have consequences for Turkey to behave in the way they do. Moreover, this is entirely in line with what the Socialist Members of the European Parliament said yesterday in connection with the debate in the European Parliament. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Nick Hækkerup: If, theoretically speaking, one imagines that Mr. Nick Hækkerup was Secretary of State. Nick Hækkerup's imaginary world to go down to the European Union and demand that an independent investigation be carried out into the information we have received that some of the funds we have provided by the European Union are actually being used for human rights violations against refugees? Well, an independent investigation would be something like that, sir. Nick Hækkerup would seem to be within a framework where Mr. Nick Hækkerup can join us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110505-2	I therefore share the view that it is a good thing that the European Court of Auditors is on the investigation here. But I also think that you have to stick to the fact that if you turn to the list of projects, which we have been given as an annex, there are a large number of projects. And it is absolutely true that three of them at the bottom of page 4, at the top of page 5, are with money that goes through the Turkish administration. But that is the small part of the money, and it is also money that must give the children access to education and give refugees access to primary health care. As Mr. Søren Søndergaard also suggests, can one imagine that there is a risk that the Turks are actually spending that money on something else? That is what the Court of Auditors has to look at, and that is why the answer to the question is: I think that every time we give out money, no matter how we do it, we have to make sure that they go for the right purposes. And I share the concern that I heard the question that the Turks might not always be hitting it as we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110611	Now things are sometimes more complicated than they seem. I remember when I was in the European Parliament, we applied to visit a number of refugee camps along the border with Syria in Turkey. There we were told that we could visit them and them and them, and then there was just a row that we could not be allowed to visit. They were then later accused of housing wounded IS warriors. I have no knowledge of that or not, I just know that we were not allowed to visit them, even though they were humanitarian refugee camps supported, etc. etc. Let it go. Again, back to my question to Mr. Nick Hækkerup: We agree that when we talk about not the refugee facility, but pre-accession aid, we have given money to armored crew vehicles, where responsibility for whether or not there has been an infringement is a little uncertain. That is why it would be very natural for the European Union to say: well, we are trying to make an independent study of it in order to get things on the table. The Commissioner responsible stood in the European Parliament yesterday and said: if you have any proof, give it to me, because I do not know. I don't have any evidence to the contrary, but I don't know. I don't know, he said. An independent inquiry would then be something that could possibly be obtained after a forthcoming election. Nick Hækkerup working for the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110733	I really mean this: when the community is whether it be the European Union, whether it be Denmark, whether it be other countries, it is the least we can do to ensure that there is proper follow-up on how these funds are spent. It is strange to give out funds and not have that kind of follow-up, I simply think. Let me just add that it is possible to discuss whether this money could have been given directly and so on. I also do not know whether the money actually runs through the refugee facility... they don't run over Turkey, they drive to these organisations. One of the good things about the refugee facility is that it has succeeded in bringing together some people who might otherwise not have been able to be financed to the same extent here. In other words, the European Union, as I remember, has a billion. euro. But the last 2 billion. of the 3 billion euros. After all, the euro that is here is money financed by the EU Member States. This means that some of those whom we find it difficult to get on the ground and provide bilateral neighbourhood aid will be included in the funding. It may be that it would be more beautiful if it went around etc., but the fact that we, as a community, are gathering together and financing it is something more powerful than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110842	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110843	Thank you. Now I do not quite know the content of that proposal for adoption that the rapporteur spoke about, because I do not think anything was read out, but I would like to address something a little more in principle. We can stand and have a disagreement on the details here, but again I would like us to try to lift it up a little, as regards how the European Union acts in relation to such an agreement, in other words in relation to dealing with refugees and migrants in third countries, because the rapporteur himself said that this is also a bulwark against migrants to Europe. Has the rapporteur seen anything in this agreement about this patchwork of agreements that makes it possible to think that it will be put together in a different way, so that we do not then get the likely violations of human rights mixed into it and we can therefore be more clean, so that we in the European Union can do so with an open mind and stand up for the values on which we are based?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531110943	In fact, such query debates are intended for exactly that kind of discussion; we always lose ourselves in tactical game fighting about what was said yesterday for an opening debate or something like that, and that is why I think the question is super relevant. I think it will happen over the coming years that it will be clear that the reception of asylum seekers, refugees and migrants that we have seen in Europe cannot go. That is what we have found out. So what do we do instead? We have put forward our proposals on the part of the Social Democrats and we know that different proposals are being worked on in other countries. What has to be said is that some form of transfer of services is involved in the handling of cases to the local areas. The money goes further and we want to protect ourselves against the coincidence and injustice that exist in the system today. Does that mean it's easy to do? No, it obviously doesn't. There will be, for example. be problems with human rights, which must be dealt with and so on, but that is probably the case, and now the rapporteur himself is also a candidate for the European Parliament; some of the European debate will take place in the coming years. I guess this is exactly how we deal with this situation, because the way it is handled today is clearly not enough, proper and good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111105	What worries me is, among other things. Again this bulwark, as it is, which is a mobile bulwark, you might say. Erdogan has said: we can just start the buses and drive the refugees to the border, and then you have them again. In other words, if we sort of outsource this, as we do with this agreement, when we somehow outsource a responsibility, then we are also a little hostages in the game that is going on in a country like Turkey. That's where the whole way this has been screwed up, the whole funding, which has been written about in many European media. It's not just Danwatch and Politiken, it's all over Europe that the media have been dealing with this. That is the concern I would like to have the rapporteur address, that is to say, that we are outsourcing something, and thus we are also being held hostage in the very same game.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111203-2	I think that is one of the concerns you have when you look at the agreement and ask whether the work has been completed and what, if we are to repeat it in other countries, is reason to pick up on. And one of the things that worries me about the agreement is that in reality, no matter how you turn it around or how you turn it, Erdogan has a squeeze on us that we don't like that he has, and that means that when you're going to make this type of construction, you have to choose the partners with care and secure the framework of it in a way that doesn't end up in that situation. I just think with all due respect and I really have a lot of respect for the work of the rapporteur that it is the wrong way to say that we must therefore stop funding the refugee facility. I know that you have now made that proposal for adoption, and that is why you have to stand up for it, because that is the way it is, because you don't want to lose face, and we are all big, grown men and so on, but the reality is that it hasn't hit the dial.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111307	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Nick Hækkerup for today's efforts. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111320	Thank you. It is, of course, a rather interesting discussion that we have here today with the arguments for and against, and what is of course also interesting is, as the next few minutes will show, that one can be on the same side in criticising this agreement, but that one does so from a 180 degree point of view. Because the Danish People's Party has always been incredibly sceptical about this agreement. And why have we been? Yes, it is simply because, in short, the agreement is bad and, as the previous rapporteur said, it is also a question of who it is that one has as a co-contractor in this agreement. In short, Erdogan is a villain and he has helped design this agreement, so it benefits Turkey in a number of areas which have nothing to do with the flow of refugees. If we look at it that way, we can see that there are these extraneous concerns about visa liberalisation. Where's it coming from? Yes, it is a selfish desire on the part of Turkey. And the revitalization of the accession negotiations is in Turkey's interest only and should not be involved in an agreement on migrants, almost regardless of how you look at it. But where we in the Danish People's Party may well stand out a little, we basically think that the agreement is wrong because Europe actually outsources its defence of the external borders to another nation. Apparently we can't figure out how to defend our borders ourselves, and then we'll set a type like Erdogan to do it. I think Søren Espersen said something in the sense that it is directly impotent, and that may sound a little violent, but I cannot actually find a better word for it myself. We cannot find out for ourselves, and then we pay someone else to do it; we don't like the man, but then we don't get our hands dirty, and then somebody else does it; we just can't man up to defend Europe, and then we hope we can pay off. Of course, we are very critical of this. One final aspect of the agreement itself, which we are fundamentally opposed to, is that the agreement accepts some form of migration. There are certain conditions for the withdrawal of refugees, but at the same time it must be replaced by the fact that there are some other refugees to be distributed throughout Europe, and now I heard the Minister say ten minutes ago that there were far more people coming to Europe than were rejected. How this is connected and how it can happen, I must confess that I do not understand the technicality of, but, overall, it is absolutely crazy that you have an agreement on the readmission of migrants and, for every migrant who comes back, you receive one or two. I think that is quite wrong. Then there is the question of how Turkey's act is in relation to Syria, and that it even happens with the so-called pre-accession funds here: that is what I think I can say, because we have no part in the agreement itself. What can be expected when agreements are concluded with a type like Erdogan? Then it should come as no surprise that things are going on that we do not like to see with European eyes. Having said that, I must also acknowledge that Turkey actually has a right to defend its borders. It is not just Denmark and Europe that the Danish People's Party believes has the right to defend their borders. In fact, so has Turkey. It does not look pretty, and there is not a single word in my mouth in defence of it, but it is perhaps an expression of a certain real policy that this is the way things are going in an unpleasant world. I would like to read out the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the EU-Turkey agreement has only partially fulfilled its purpose, as migrants continue to flow to the Greek islands and to the waters around Italy. The Folketing also notes that the agreement concluded contains elements relating to extraneous matters relating to Turkey's relations with the EU. Parliament stresses that it is not sustainable to outsource the defence of Europe's external borders to Turkey, as it makes itself vulnerable to political pressure from Turkey. Parliament calls for the agreement to be suspended and for the European countries to take on the responsibility of defending both external and internal borders. Parliament calls for negotiations on the establishment of refugee camps in Africa and the Middle East to be intensified. V 74). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111830	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111835	Thank you. Just for the sake of clarity in the debate, and in particular in honour of the rapporteur of the Left, I would ask the rapporteur to reply to the Danish People's Party's position, since the question of the financing of the refugee facility was before the European Committee here for what is it, 11⁄2 months ago, on 17 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111903	I think that's a rhetorical question. I can't answer that. However, I think that the rapporteur himself should respond to this when he clearly knows it. I just don't know. I am not in the details of what was said at the European Committee meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111917	Well, I would like to inform the Danish People's Party about the politics of the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party's policy is that you should not have any funding for that refugee facility. But then let me raise the question once again: is it true that the Danish People's Party believes that the agreement between the EU and Turkey as it stands, with the elements that are the refugee facility and the other, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531111946	Yeah, we think it's bad. There are a number of elements in it that are actually okay. That is, of course, the humanitarian effort that we think is worth looking at. But what has gone wrong is that you have mixed up the whole bathroll, so you have perhaps two or three good elements mixed together with five bad elements. That is why the agreement in its entirety is bad. And we can have a long discussion about the projects that then work in the agreement, but there is of course our view that those projects could easily be supported in other ways. If this agreement had not been concluded, there would have been nothing to prevent one or more European countries or the European Union as a whole from giving support to this local action on these projects, which we have heard mentioned in several different contexts: there is nothing to prevent that. I hope that would be the case if this agreement had not been reached. But to mix things up so that it is absolutely necessary that we have this agreement with all the unfortunate elements I have mentioned before, so that we can have the humanitarian effort, I do not buy that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112056	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112101	In my view, the way in which a border is secured is dictated by practical circumstances. If Turkey and Europe were separated by a 5 km high mountain range, security would be achieved in a way. If it were a stone desert, it would happen in a different way. Now there is a water limit, and that is a third challenge. How does the rapporteur envisage that the EU itself should secure a water limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112133	I heard a water boundary. Is that how I was supposed to understand it? Yeah. Well, in the good old days, every country with respect for itself had a fleet. That fleet was responsible for defending the country. That would also apply to the situation we have in the Mediterranean today. I am aware that the Greek fleet is quite, quite large, as is the Italian fleet. Surely they have an obligation to maintain and defend their own borders. I do not think I fully understand the question. Just because it's water doesn't mean you have to stand with open arms or with your hands in your pocket and watch these fugitives get into rubber boats. We do not think that is the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112220	But a Greek or an Italian naval vessel cannot enter the territorial waters of other states without official permission. So where would ships belonging to the Greek or Italian states go with the people who were insurrectioned when territorial waters in Libya or Turkey are not an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112247	As a starting point it must be that the first purpose of these vessels is to try to stop the irregular migration of rubber boats and try to get them to turn around. If it turns out not to be possible for one reason or another, you have to put these people in camps, but for later deployments. What is the problem is that in the same second you in the agreement have elements that allow migration and accept this migration and the trade, the trade, something for something, and one out and two into it, it will strengthen the incentive to continue both types of migration. If, as a starting point, we do not accept migration and simply want to put a stop in the hole, if you may say so, then it is our view, then the Danish People's Party believes that at some point you will understand the message, that is that access is prohibited, whether you come by a highway or by a dusty path, or you try to take the waterway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112352	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112357	Several rapporteurs have referred to what I would like to say, and I would like to say that I have also been ambivalent to the agreement. I think it lacked something, in other words that it insisted that Turkey respect human rights, freedom of the press, the opportunities for the opposition, etc. What's the alternative to the deal? What should we have done at that time? Should we have stopped doing anything and accepted that the flow of refugees just continued?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112442	Well, now you try to put the responsibility for getting into a bad deal on my shoulders. What I think should have been done was to be far, far more clear in that the influx of refugees was not accepted; now we are discussing it again. Instead, they chose to enter into a bad agreement, where I still believe that from day one should have said: Well, the responsibility for our external borders is the Greeks, it is the Italians and yes, the Danes have an external sea border. It is we ourselves who have the duty and responsibility to maintain that limit. If that had been the overall signal from all the EU countries, led by the EU institution itself, then I am not sure that we would have been in the situation we are in today, and I believe that, in fact, a much better agreement would have come through, that is, if it had been the signal, but that was not the signal. The signal two years ago was: we cannot find out ourselves; we cannot even find out how to question the Schengen Agreement. And there will be refugees! But we must distribute them; that must be the way to deal with that problem. In other words, there was a slowness and inaction which, of course, can only lead to the bad agreement we are having now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112604	Does the rapporteur believe that, in our lifetime, the European Union will be able to defend its own borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112614	That was an unpleasant question. Well, I can be in doubt. I think I see a European Union that has lost its vitality in so many ways and believes that it can trade and trade itself out of all the problems in the world; I can be in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112638	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112641	Thank you. Inspired by the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, then I would like to put a question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. If, after a forthcoming elections, it turns out that there is a majority in favour of putting an end to the inconsequential line of criticism which the current government has against Turkey, which criticises but does not follow up with action, then I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party will be part of such a majority, not only criticising the abuses and wrong things that are taking place in Turkey, but also following it up with action as far, of course, as we can now agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112726	I am simply unable to answer that question. It is neither in my hands nor in my crystal ball to predict what will happen after a choice. However, the criticism against Erdogan, the criticism against Turkey and the doubt as to whether Erdogan is a stable negotiating partner, I dare guarantee that we will stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112751	Now I'm puzzled. Is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in doubt that after a forthcoming election we will also vote for the consequences of the criticism of Erdogan? So, the Danish People's Party has put forward a series of proposals here in the Folketing on the Ankara Agreement and one and the other and the third. Is there any doubt that if any of this is allowed to get through under a new government, one will still stand by it? There's no doubt about that, is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112824	Well, I can only repeat that we stand by everything we have done in the past and said and criticised on the right and left, but exactly what we intend to vote for or against in a thoughtful vote under a thoughtful majority or a thoughtful composition of the Folketing, I do not think I am going to move into. I don't think that makes any sense. However, I do not think the rapporteur is in any doubt that the Danish People's Party is one of Erdogan's greatest critics here in Denmark. I am, of course, sorry if that is the case. But from there, to say that we are absolutely sure that we will vote in this way in the case of a given majority, does not make sense. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112905	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112907	Thank you. Now I understand that in an attempt to try to show that you are sharp in foreign policy and that you will find a majority apparently by inventing something, the Social Democrat rapporteur has used the Danish People's Party's rapporteur to try to send signals to me. And now I will return this great honour and do the opposite and ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to confirm that we are one hundred per cent in agreement. I repeat it just for the sake of red bloc: one hundred per cent agree that it is necessary to have a strict and strict immigration policy, which is at the same time firm and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531112942	I think I can confirm that. However, I would like to ask that if there are more disputes between the two rapporteurs from the respective parties, one of whom is then not in the Chamber anymore, then one cannot find another place to clarify this rather than to use me as a poor messenger? I think I'm burdened enough already. Am I going to fight your fights, too? Maybe I think that's too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113003	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen and welcome to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113020	After all, we in the Danish Liberal Party find it a difficult problem when talking about Turkey. Because there is no discussion that the developments taking place in relation to the Erdogan regime are extremely worrying. I myself have been out on behalf of my party on several occasions, expressing criticism of the way in which the Erdogan regime is turning Turkey away from one, we must say democratic and pro-European direction and more and more towards a less democratic and also more and more Middle Eastern approach to looking at democracy and development in general. That is also why we warmly supported the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has placed Turkey under surveillance. This is, of course, an increase in the fact that they were actually removed from it, and we have also said at the same time on the part of the Left and also on the part of the government, for that matter, that we cannot in any way continue accession negotiations with Turkey vis-à-vis the European Union in the way that is happening right now in Turkey. And we just have to make that clear. In other words, it is a country which is currently moving seven-mile steps in the wrong direction. But the question is: when we talk about the negative developments in a country like Turkey, should it stop one from making an agreement with that country in order to solve a challenge that we have not only in Europe in general but also, not least, in a country like Denmark, namely the influx of asylum seekers from countries in either the Middle East or Africa or even further away? The answer to that is clear from the Left that we can handle this and that we should therefore also be able to reach an agreement such as that with Turkey. For that is one of the best tools we have had to stop the influx we experienced in 2015. Then, of course, we can discuss whether it has stopped for the Balkan route in relation to the protection of the EU's external borders there or other things that have also had an effect. I recognise that clearly, but we cannot avoid it, I believe, and this has been agreed by a large number of independent experts that the Turkey agreement itself is essential to put an end to the illegal flow of refugees and asylum seekers as there were. And that is also why we support the creation of a border guard on the Turkish side. This does not mean that carte blanche is given for Turkey to use it here in some aggressive behaviour against, for example, Turkey. Kurds or others. No, it is not, and that is why we are also confident that the Commission, which has the overall responsibility of ensuring that the agreement is implemented in a satisfactory manner, has control, so to speak, that nothing is being done by Turkey which must not be done. At the same time, however, I am just obliged to arrest the three parties that have been behind that adoption, namely the alternative, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, and that is in relation to the fact that if we were to seriously stop having the Turkey agreement, what really would be done by not continuing funding, what will we do about the millions of asylum seekers that Europe could potentially get after that? One thing, then, is that there are many asylum seekers who, as it were, are knocking on the door to Turkey. But what about all the many asylum seekers who already live in different camps inside Turkey? I mean, I have no confidence that Erdogan and his regime would not be able to make a thank you for last if the EU suddenly fails to complete the agreement and therefore also the payment. I haven't. But it may be that the three red parties have it. I just have to say that I don't have that trust in Erdogan, I have to admit. So this balanced approach we think is important, and that is also why I am pleased to be able to tell you that there is a proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, and I hereby make the following: proposals for adoption by Parliament support the EU-Turkey agreement, including the replenishment of the Turkey facility. The agreement has been an important instrument for tackling a major challenge for both the EU and Turkey since 2016. The agreement has contributed significantly to curbing the flow of refugees and migrants from Turkey to Europe. With its humanitarian aim, the agreement has helped to improve the situation of millions of Syrian refugees in Turkey through, among other things, emergency financial assistance, medical care and education. Parliament stresses that projects both under the facility and outside will continue to comply with both the agreement reached, EU law and international law, including respect for human rights. At the same time, Parliament calls on the government to maintain the focus on the working conditions of NGOs in Turkey. Parliament reiterates its criticism of the negative developments in Turkey in a number of areas (e.g. excessive use of force). Developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights are of serious concern. V 75).
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113603	Thank you. There are three brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113608	Thank you. I think that the rapporteur's speech leaves a question and perhaps also a dilemma which I do not think the rapporteur raised. And that is that, when you think that there should be this agreement, because it means that we make sure that migrants and refugees do not cross the borders of Europe, you say that we are dealing with it by keeping it out. Then we will also give Erdogan the power and freedom of action, because, as the rapporteur says, they will thank you for last by sending the buses with which they have already threatened and unleashing them to show what they can. Is the rapporteur not seriously concerned to hear not only the articles that have been before, but also from human rights organisations, about the expulsion at the border with Turkey, where refugees have been shot at, in other words, that we should stamp out something that becomes a slippery path in terms of human rights when we talk about this, namely that in our eagerness to deal with and push away responsibility we really will have a much worse responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113723	Again, I would say that here I do not think it is black or white. So, on the one hand, there is no discussion that I do not want the shooting down of innocent civilians, of course I do not; I am a human being. And if it seems at all in any way and I have well seen Amnesty and others be out with such reports... then it is something that I can only in the greatest way take a deep distance from. Because of course that must not happen. On the other hand, a country, including Turkey, also has the opportunity, as it were, to defend its border. And, of course, it's a balancing act, how to do it. This is also happening in Israel, and it is not to take the debate now that there is also a great debate. So yes, I know that it may sound like a very balanced approach... I almost sound like I'm a member of the Radical Left, but I'm not. Well, I just think there's nothing black or white in this, and that's why we have to look at it in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113824	To defend your borders in relation to refugees trying to cross is a bit different from having your border attacked, you might say. But I would like to ask you this basically when you are acting in this way: is the rapporteur not afraid that we have actually committed ourselves, in other words whether we dare to act? Do we dare to do something about this agreement, or do we dare not, because we are afraid that refugees will be sent back? That is the dilemma I would like to talk about. In other words, whether we have deposited a decision-making power in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113900	That, of course, is also a relevant question. My answer to that is that it is not only an agreement that is good for Europe in the eyes of the goose, it is also an agreement that is good for Turkey. In fact, the Turkish economy is really, really bad, not least in view of the failed military coup, but also in general, and therefore they need the money. They need the money to be able to deal with the millions of refugees who are, and so they cannot just say that it does not matter whether there is such an agreement or not, even if they try to do so in the rhetoric, I recognise that, but I think it is an act. They need the money, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113932	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531113936	Thank you. Now the rapporteur makes such a passant that he is not a member of the Radical Left, and I must confess that it was an idea that robbed me at some point, because I would like to come back to the question of who is actually responsible for defending the borders of a country, whether it is a nation state or a collection of countries, as the European Union is. Now you have had two years, three years, to see that the external borders are open as a sieve, and with this agreement and other measures you have tried to bribe other countries or buy other countries in order to defend our borders. Does the rapporteur think that this is the way forward to defend our own borders, that is to say, that we are holding our hands in our pockets and then we are taking out the chequebook and then we hope for the best, or are we about to be where we should say what should we say about a more traditional maintenance of our borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114043	I think it should be a boat and not a either-or, because the situation is, of course, that if we protect our external borders and the asylum seekers concerned, just to take a concrete example, they have the right to seek asylum on that ship, if it is within territorial waters. That is where we have the whole problem. That is why, to put it bluntly, it is not so stupid to make agreements with third countries in order to deal with these human flows that are, because they will then be able to deal with asylum treatment elsewhere outside the borders of Europe. And it is not quite stupid; on the contrary, it is quite good if, like the Danish People's Party, you want a strict immigration policy that will have a limit on the number of asylum seekers against Europe. Something needs to be done, and that is why, for example, we need to do something. supports the establishment of agreements with the North African countries, etc. etc., like the Turkey Agreement. I think that is the way forward because it will be effective. We can also just look at the number, 885,000 asylum seekers in 2015. This year so far 14,000. These are numbers that can be taken and felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114158	Thank you for your answer. Of course, I'm still standing away and wondering about a scenario like that. In other words, the European Union has not been able to deal with the fact that a million people have come from the south who want to enter Europe. You then try to get Turkey to take the trash and pay them for it. Now I know that we are not going to speculate, but what if a million Russians suddenly found out that they really want to enter Germany, they want to enter Europe, there is actually better to be, there is better TV, you should try the same thing, that is, you are standing with your hands in your pocket, and then you are trying to pay someone else to handle that task. I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114239	But it's an interesting scenario because what's the alternative? The alternative is that they come up to a border guard in Denmark, now just to cut it right to the bone, which says: You have no right to enter Denmark. Then the person will say: Oh, okay, but then I'd like to apply for asylum now. Then that person will be entitled to an asylum procedure in Denmark. So that is why, frankly, I do not understand why the Danish People's Party does not support that we deal with the situation before they enter European territory and not least within Danish territory, because then it is not a challenge for us in concrete, direct terms, but then it is an indirect challenge that can be solved in an easier way. That's why I think this is actually a good idea. And even if the unthinkable should happen in relation to a million Russians, yes, I would think it was much better to deal with the situation before they came to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114332	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114334	In relation to the latter, I assume that the rapporteur agrees that Turkey also has an obligation to investigate whether there is an asylum requirement if people call for asylum, otherwise it is a violation of human rights. One of the criticisms of the border guard is that Turkey not only keeps away illegal elements that will try to penetrate. They are in their right to do so, and they are in their right to gather everyone in a place or in some places, for example. by some transitions where they can control them. But they do not have the right to say systematically just that people are not allowed to seek asylum, because that would be a violation of the refugee convention. I guess we're agreed on that. Then we are back on what this question is about: the reaction to the information that has come out in the daily press and elsewhere, about how that border guard works, and then the fact that the European Union has given money to that border guard. I have to say that I was so happy last night when I was watching the representatives of ALDE in the European Parliament; they were not alone, because it was the whole European Parliament who said the same thing, but ALDE's representatives, who both cover the Radical, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, thundered, when it was necessary for an independent investigation to be carried out in the European Union with regard to Commissioner Hahn, who was present, on these issues. Because we cannot live with these rumours that the European Union has contributed to something that is being used for massive human rights violations by paying these armoured crew cars that form part of this border control. That is why my question is this: can the rapporteur of the Left please me just as much as the ALDE rapporteur and say that the Left is also in favour of the EU launching an independent investigation into what has actually happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114527	No, I must unfortunately destroy the good atmosphere that was otherwise emerging here and say that I have full confidence that the Commission and, above all, the officials' follow-up group, where Denmark is also participating, have full control over how and how this work is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114550	I think that Mr. Nick Hækkerup said it very well. Sir. Nick Hækkerup put it this way: we trust the Commission, the Commission trusts Turkey, and Turkey does not really answer anything other than guaranteeing that everything is of course in order. But does that mean that the human rights organisations that have made a statement are full of lies? That is to say, the articles which, among other things, include: Was in Politiken, Is Untrue? If they are not untrue, how are we going to determine whether it is the Turkish authorities who say that there are no problems on which the Commission is based and on which the Danish Government is based, who is right, or if we do not have the independent investigation, there is perhaps something to come up with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114634	I've been trying to open it up a little bit. I think it is very serious accusations that have come from, among others. Amnesty's side, and they must, of course, be thoroughly investigated, but as I have been reminded, this is also something that the European Union is examining very, very closely in dialogue with Turkey. There it is, then, that the difference between Enhedslisten and me is that I am confident that the civil service group and the Commission can deal with it. But of course it has to be investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114701	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114702	I just have a question about the attitude of the government and the Left towards Turkey, which I think is somewhat flimsy if I am to be honest. Will the rapporteur not admit that Turkey and Erdogan are extremely counterproductive in relation to the conflicts that are down there in the region; that in other words, the Syrian conflict has deteriorated quite considerably because of Erdogan's policy; that Erdogan's policy has in itself led to more refugees entering our part of the world; and that it must be an essential part of a solution to the conflict in Syria that Erdogan is weakened?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114743-2	Yes, I would like to, but as I was also trying to say in my speech, we just have to not only see this as black or white. That is why I would like to say that, on the one hand, when we find that Erdogan is acting in an aggressive manner both internally and externally, not least in relation to Northern Syria, we can only distance ourselves from it, and I have actually done so several times on behalf of the Left. But on the other hand, I just do not think that there is a good alternative to the Turkey agreement, and that is where the problem lies. If there was, I was very ready to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114821	I agree that there are many dilemmas in this, of course there are. I think we all agree on that and that is also why the alternative would well have had the discussion without the sniper polemic that has also been running. But what I just mean is that one of the dilemmas is whether you are going to strengthen Erdogan's regime. To the extent that Erdogan has a squeeze on us, I would say: yes, but we do also have a squeeze on him through the financial support we give to Turkey. He's very addicted to that. And that is why I thought it was very, very strange because, in any event, the government wanted to suspend all negotiations on EU membership, rather than, as we have proposed, setting up conditions and saying to Turkey: if you cannot meet those conditions, we will end the negotiations. Here you go from one extreme to the other, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114919-2	However, it is from the same analysis that the way it is doing in Turkey right now is untenable. That is why we and I have been saying for a long time that it would be untenable and a little absurd theater if we continued the EU negotiations that were there. Because I do not really think we are as divided about the situation in Turkey as one might think. On the contrary, we just disagree on whether or not it should have an impact on the EU-Turkey agreement, where we say that it can live well while we are critical of Turkey in general. And that's where the disagreement is, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531114955	Thank you very much, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen for today's work. And welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115013	This discussion is basically about at least two things, starting from the same thing. The same point of departure is that not long ago we were presented with some very serious accusations about how Turkey handled its border with Syria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, these are very serious accusations, which I assume everyone is in breach of the refugee agreement that has been concluded, because I do not assume that the European Union is entering into a refugee agreement with Turkey, which is about breaking fundamental human rights, namely the right to seek asylum. We cannot imagine that, so these are very serious accusations, and that is of course why this discussion has been raised, so that we can discuss these very serious accusations and discuss what we can do about it. It's been presented like two legs in this. One is what is called the refugee facility, which is an agreement between the European Union and Turkey, and on which we can see that the basis on which it must be established, namely respect for human rights, is therefore that the European Union cannot conclude an agreement that Turkey has the right to prevent Syrian refugees from seeking asylum, which I assume everyone agrees is gone, so that it should be suspended or lifted. It's like one part of it. The second part of this is that, through its pre-accession aid to Turkey, the European Union has given Turkey large amounts of money, such as: have been used, after approval in the EU, to purchase armored crew cars and patrol vessels which have been made in such a way that they can be armed; it is not part of the agreement that they should be armed and that, in some cases, have been entered on the border and maybe have not been part of the abuses described here. Now part of the discussion has come to be about the part that was about the Turkey Facility, and not about the part that was about pre-accession assistance. Of course, you can choose to give priority to this, as you think, but the authors of the motion for a resolution think it is a pity that that is exactly what has been chosen. For the most important thing, that is, what was the starting point for everything, was that there was some reaction to what we have seen at the border. Then came mr. Nick Hækkerup with a good idea, because he said that the proposers should actually withdraw the proposal and bring in a new one where the refugee facility was gone, but that the proposers probably did not dare, because there is something about losing face. We're happy to lose face, sir. Nick Hækkerup. So I have the honour to inform you that the proposal for adoption that we tabled earlier has been withdrawn. That proposal has been withdrawn. On the other hand, on behalf of the same authors of the motion (ALT, EL and SF), I would like to make another suggestion: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work to suspend the future disbursement of funds made available in pre-accession assistance to Turkey until the country complies with basic human rights standards and complies with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights concerning Turkey. • V 76). I can't imagine anyone being opposed to that proposal. In that case, I would certainly like to hear it from up here, in other words, if anyone would object to that proposal. I understand, of course, the problem that you can have when you've been sitting like Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup and others and, of course, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, formulated some text, so you might find it a little embarrassing to have to draw that text to vote for ours. You might somehow feel like you're losing face. And I understand that it's not everyone who's just willing to lose face. So, okay, let us not insist on voting in favour of our own text and not withdraw it if we go up and say that the content of the proposal we have tabled here is actually acceptable, then we will find another way of formally approving it. For that is what is at the heart: should there be any consequences for human rights violations in Turkey, or should it not? Yesterday, and I have mentioned this, there was a very interesting discussion in the European Parliament. It was about a question put by a Socialist, I think, or one from the Socialist and Democratic Group. There were over 30 speakers and all speakers without exception were very critical from all political groups from the extreme right to the extreme left and the message was quite clear: when there are such accusations that are so serious, there must of course be an independent investigation into it. And I would say that the answer that came from Commissioner Hahn was not a strong answer; I do not think so. The Commissioner said, and now it is in my primitive translation, that there was no evidence that these armored crew cars had been abused, and then he added: but I cannot rule it out either. I cannot rule it out, the Commissioner said. And then he said that if anyone in the European Parliament has 751 Members who have evidence, they must finally come to us, because we also look seriously at the matter. Ah, it's not strong, is it? The strong thing is to set up an independent investigation, and our call from the Enhedslisten to the government is that the EU, together with like-minded countries, is working for an independent investigation into this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115634	Thank you. Before we go any further, I should like to know whether anyone would like to take up the suggestion made by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, sir. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has originally submitted. There isn't, and then it's drawn. And the new proposal, which has been read out, will be included in the negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115704	I would just like to ask whether we can expect another text from the SF, because it has a little to do with how much effort can be devoted to the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115720	As I said, the proposal I read out was made by exactly the same people who tabled the first proposal, that is. The alternative, SF and Enhedslisten. So, sir. Henrik Dahl can safely waste his powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115732	So I can be absolutely sure it won't be withdrawn again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115741	No, you cannot be sure of that if you have a respect for the people's rule and for the discussions that are taking place here. Mr. Henrik Dahl obviously doesn't. But if the starting point is that you are having some discussions and that you are getting wiser during those discussions, and even following some calls you get from other members of the Folketing, then it is natural that there may be this development. So if sir... Henrik Dahl has several suggestions on how we can allow the criticism of Turkey to follow a concrete action and not just words, so they are welcome, and I would like to make it possible for there to be another proposal. But if it's just that sir... Henrik Dahl, like the government, makes a lot of criticism of Turkey, but no action against the Islamist regime, so the proposal that lies is the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115828	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115829	I would therefore like to acknowledge that it has been listened to, I think, very relevant criticism that we raised of that proposal. As for the thing about losing face, I think it was Erling Olsen who said: better lose face than lose whole head. And in many ways it is still true. I think that the process confirms that it has been ignored in this process that we have dialogue on the texts in advance so that we can concentrate on a reasonable text for adoption, is a tradition that is a reason for us to stick to, so that the dialogue that needs to be taken on the wordings can be taken in good time and in a sensible way. But in reality that was not what caused me to raise the question, because it was: does this text change mean that the same parties think it is appropriate to support the refugee facility? In other words, we agree that it is sensible to have the 3 billion. The euro that goes to refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115941	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531115942	No, what you agree with is exactly what it says, and that is also the only thing we ask people to vote on. We are not asking people to vote on everything that is not there. The unitary list's criticism of the refugee facility is well known, and other parties have also put it forward, but what we saw in the debate was that there were differences of opinion, there were different assessments. And then we find ourselves in the fortunate position that the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, has decided to initiate an investigation. Then it may be very wise to say: OK, then we wait with exactly that discussion until we can discuss it on the basis of a report from the Court of Auditors. So what we agree on is exactly what the text says.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531120028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531120028-2	However, when I think it is appropriate to raise the issue of aid for the refugee facility, it is because it is precisely that which is the sensitive part and which has now drifted out of the new proposal. That is why my fundamental question is simply whether the authors of the motion for a resolution I know that the rapporteurs cannot be responsible for the other parties, of course he cannot do the thing about Enhedslisten that with the 3 billion. The euro, which is part of the refugee facility, is sensible or not. Let us now put that aside, because I know that there must be an audit, and I agree with that, but can we say that the vast majority of the refugee facility is a relevant tool or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531120112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531120113	As we have always pointed out in relation to the refugee facility, we do not think it is a good tool. We're 100% for the 3 billion. euro. We believe that there can be other ways of giving civil society in Turkey the money, including relief organisations. It doesn't have to happen through an agreement with Erdogan. However, the fact that we must, of course, help to prevent people from being encouraged to flee on is clear. We have to do this in Turkey, as we do in Jordan, just as we do in Lebanon, as we do elsewhere. So we are in complete agreement with this, but I will not say here that I support the refugee facility. Now that is not what the opinion is about, and that is why it could be interesting, when we are no longer looking at it, to hear what the other parties' position on pre-accession aid is. It would be nice to have a report and I am sure that the President will be open to another round of speeches if there are some who have the courage to express it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531120212	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard. But in the first place, it's time for a dinner break. We shall therefore interrupt the debate now and resume it at 1 p.m. 1:00 sharp. The first person to speak as rapporteur after the break is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130000	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with the question No. F 28, which is a question to the Foreign Minister concerning the financing of the Turkish border guard on the border with Syria, by Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. We've reached Mr. Kim. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, in the ranks of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130027	Thank you, President. For the sake of those who did not see the previous paragraph, it is therefore a question from the Alternative on EU cooperation with Turkey and the financing of the Turkey Facility, which is the subject we are discussing. The fact is that, some years ago in 2015, the European Union launched a joint action plan with Turkey to resolve the refugee and migrant problems, which we all remember and which were, of course, very dramatic in 2015. The Turkish facility has actually been a success. It has helped to solve the very major problems facing Turkey and the countries of the European Union by curbing the flow of refugees and migrants. At the same time, the situation has improved for a great many of the refugees in Turkey, both in terms of medical care, education and safety. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is a good agreement for Denmark, the European Union and Turkey. Perhaps then I think that the actual text of the question is rather unclear. It can be interpreted as meaning that the 911 km border fences have something to do with Turkey's facility in some way, but it does not have an economic one. It is funded by EU pre-accession aid and must contribute to more effective border control within the framework of international law. As several rapporteurs have also said, it must be said in general terms that Turkey is a country that is moving in the wrong direction at all possible levels, but there is therefore regular contact with the Turkish authorities to ensure that the border project also respects EU law and international law. However, the Turkish facility is an incredibly important tool for dealing with refugee and migrant flows and has had the importance of fewer people moving to Europe, as we have done, among other things. also discussed during the closing debate yesterday. We still look away in the Liberal Alliance with great concern on the way things are going in Turkey and the way Turkish democracy is being curtailed. As recently as a year ago, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and I under the leadership of the name in Istanbul, and there we could see for ourselves that the conditions are not very good. And although the SF and the Liberal Alliance may not agree on so much, I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and I agreed that it was rather negative to experience the way things are developing firsthand. We look at this very seriously. These are measures which we will continue to be very critical of and which we are constantly addressing to the Turkish Government. But that does not change the fact that Turkey is a very important strategic ally in many contexts, that is, both for the European Union for NATO, and therefore also for dealing with the migration challenge. That is why we support the agreements I have mentioned concerning the Turkish facility and are, of course, also in the situation where we support the adoption text that we ourselves have helped to put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130407	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are a few brief comments to be made, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130413	Thank you. I would really like to hear a little more about some of the more fundamental aspects of this, because when we enter into such an agreement to stop a large influx of migrants and refugees into Europe, how much does it cost on objectives other than the equal economy? I'm thinking, among other things. on the criticism that has been levelled at human rights organisations and the stories that have been made in the press across European countries. Is that something that impresses the rapporteur? Is it something that makes you wobble a little in your belief in how good this agreement is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130452	It always makes a very big impression when you have to make difficult balances. When it comes to such a general commitment to good governance and respect for law and order, Denmark lies in such a top category together with a few countries when you look around the world, and that is why we regularly have to deal with countries that are far from being perfect. However, in the overall balance, the agreement on migrants between the European Union and Turkey is a very good agreement, because it also ensures a better life for migrants and refugees living in Turkey than they would otherwise have had; while, to be honest, it also selfishly solves a problem for us in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130548	However, does the rapporteur not think, when we specifically make an agreement on refugees, that it is also important to keep an eye on the international agreements that we have specifically about it, that is to say the conventions that we have? There are, among other things: this rule against sending back refugees, which is what you are doing at the border between Turkey and Syria. Isn't it rather than talking about non-perfect countries around the world, specifically here the country with which we have an agreement on a specific topic also important to keep an eye on it and not constantly to make it up to whether there are some countries that are a little worse than Denmark in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130627	Those are good considerations, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is leading the way, but in such a completely real political perspective, a significant improvement in the situation in Turkey would probably require a change of regime. It cannot be the case that the prerequisite for us to be able to make agreements at all with a large number of countries around the world, including Turkey, is to demand that there be a regime change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130654	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130657	We had a really interesting trip together. That's right... to Turkey last year. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Henrik Dahl agrees that it is going in the wrong direction in Turkey. But what I think is a little weird is that both sir. Henrik Dahl and also the government, the Foreign Minister, have such a strange passive approach to it. Either you want to close off completely to the negotiations on membership of the European Union, or you say that it is okay what is happening instead of making demands on Turkey and saying that you have to do this and that, otherwise we will do this and that. It would have been much wiser in the negotiations on membership to say to Turkey that they had to meet those requirements, and then we would have liked to continue the negotiations. Similarly, that is what we are trying to do here. That is to say to Turkey: if you do not meet these and those demands, it will also have financial consequences for you. And that's the thinking I think maybe could be developed a little more in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130808	If I may just break in and say that it is important that we speak out loud in respect of the working part of the population, as it is a little noisy and it may be difficult to hear. So you have to pay attention to raising your voice a little so that you can hear the question up here and give qualified answers. However, I do not intend to stop that noise out there, because you should also be happy to finish that work outside, so I hope that we will be able to complete the meeting even if work is being done outside. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130833	Thank you. I was also about to say myself that when I stand in such a very listening position, it is because there is a massive construction work taking place outside that affects the situation very much up here in the platform. Well, I don't think it's as black and white as mr. Holger K. Nielsen says, because it is not the case that you either throw away, for example. Turkey gets out of the European Union, or you pretend to be nothing. After all, in the many, many forums where Denmark and Turkey have something to do with each other, there is always criticism. And since I am a party partner with the Foreign Minister, I also know from other contexts than right here in the Chamber that it is almost a firm job for the Foreign Minister to scold his Turkish colleague. He is said to have achieved a great routine in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130923	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531130928	Yeah, I'll talk a little louder. Fine, thank you). What I just think is a little strange is that, for example. Last autumn after the German elections, the government went out with thunder and bang and said that now all negotiations with Turkey on membership of the EU had to be stopped because there was no prospect of Turkey becoming a member. The rest of us said that it might well be that it was wiser to keep the negotiations and to say to Turkey: you have to meet some requirements and then we can take it from there. Instead, it was said with thunder and bang that the negotiations were now being interrupted. On the other hand, it is said here that it is absolutely necessary for us to include Turkey in these agreements, and that is why Turkey is being given a number of funds that are quite uncritical. I do not think this is entirely related to the tactics and strategy of Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131028	In other words, the situation in Turkey and the EU-NATO-Turkey relationship are constantly changing, which is why it is no wonder that the Danish position is moving a little over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131049	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131051	Thank you, President. I am sure that the President will be popular if the President goes out and decrees extra drinking time out there so that we can have some peace for the work of the people's regime. But, of course, that is the President's decision. As far as the rapporteur is concerned, I assume that the Liberal Alliance agrees with the President of the Liberal Alliance, the Foreign Minister, to stop the accession negotiations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131124	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131130	So I have to ask the question: what is the point of granting pre-accession aid to Turkey? In other words, pre-accession aid to Turkey from the European Union is, of course, about enabling Turkey to join the European Union. If there is no prospect of accession, then there is no basis for pre-accession aid either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131155	But it is not Denmark that is sovereign to decide whether or not there should be accession negotiations. It may be said that if the government got its way with a magic spell, the content of the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Søren Søndergaard has helped to put forward, also being met, because then pre-accession aid would disappear. But it's not up to us. That is, of course, our input into what is going to happen within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131225	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131228	Thank you. After all, this whole agreement came about on the basis of an uncontrolled influx of refugees and migrants, and let us try to hold onto that part of it. Because it's like what's still gone is the coat that I hear in any case you hang your hat on in order to justify and defend the agreement. However, in relation to whether the influx of migrants is regular or irregular, I would say that it has decreased considerably, but it is continuing. There is still an influx into Europe. Does that not concern the rapporteur? And does the rapporteur think that the agreement can continue for a long time, despite the fact that the influx continues, against this background, i.e. that the problem has not been resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131318	Well, I have to be the first to admit that the migrant problems have not been solved and that they are difficult to solve, and it will probably take a long time before they are resolved. Because I also think it is untenable that we have the migratory current that we have. It imposes social changes on the countries of Europe which they have not asked for at all. And, of course, this is a very serious matter. But the best must not become the worst enemy of the good. In other words, it is a good agreement because it gives the refugees, the migrants a dignified life, and it also imposes a severe limitation on the migratory current there is. And I think we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131359	I therefore recognise the rapporteur's nuanced view of the agreement. But since it is just a nuanced one can see that there are some flaws and shortcomings in it. Would one then consider the ideas of the Danish People's Party that we ourselves, as a country and as Europe, have a responsibility to defend our own borders and not just stand with a checkbook, but actually defend the borders by force? Are these any considerations which the rapporteur's party might have in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131435	I was not into any kind of political teasing when I raised the question of a water limit. I believe that Europe must, of course, be able to defend its own borders. However, it is my deep conviction that a water limit presents some very special problems, because, as the rapporteur obviously knows, if you fall into the water you are in acute danger of life. So there are some humanitarian concerns about guarding water borders that you do not have when guarding land borders. In fact, I think we should take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131514	We can then express our thanks to the rapporteur. And then, by agreement, we jump in the rapporteur's line, Mr. Naser Khader now has the floor for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131526	Thank you. First of all, a little about my position on Turkey and Erdogan: I really think that Turkey is going the wrong way. Islamist Erdogan has destroyed the otherwise excellent Turkish model, which was secular, a model that was used as a model, by combining Islam with democracy. After the coup, Erdogan has really shown his true Islamic face and has moved Turkey away from a rule of law and in the totally, completely wrong direction southwards. You can see that when you come to the Middle East and the Muslim world. He's very preoccupied with it south and not so much of it north. In several places he has been named the most popular leader in the Muslim world, and he has great ambitions, Ottoman dreams, and wants to be a new sultan. So I think that what is going on in Turkey is deeply worrying. I also believe that accession negotiations with Turkey should be stopped. They're a waste of everyone's time. Turkey has been totally disloyal to NATO, and I believe that they should have a yellow card in terms of cooperation and there is a great deal wrong with Turkey. That is why the European Union started to make an agreement with Turkey to stop the flow of refugees, because many of those who came to Germany and Denmark and Sweden came from Turkey, and not everyone came directly from Syria. So he also helped to push the EU, it was a form of blackmail, but he had the upper hand. That is why an agreement was made with him and I did not think it was an optimal agreement, but it was a necessary agreement. I believe that much more should have been required in relation to human rights, freedom of the press, the opportunities for the opposition to unfold, but that was not the case. But for us it was an important agreement that was reached and a lot of money was allocated, not to Erdogan, but to the Syrian refugees who are staying in Turkey. And as the Foreign Minister said, the agreement has actually meant that 1.5 million of the most vulnerable refugees in Turkey have received financial assistance, 310,000 refugees have received basic medical care, 18,000 pregnant women have received medical assistance, children have benefited from educational aid, 310,000 have received training in Turkish schools, and the agreement has also helped to curb refugee flows such as those we saw in 2015. As far as the subject of the question today is concerned, the financing of Turkish border guards on the border with Syria is not part of the agreement we have debated a great deal here today. This was something that happened long before, and it was funded by the so-called EU pre-accession assistance to Turkey and dates from before the EU-Turkey agreement. Because it was the case that many of the Islamists came into Syria and Iraq via Turkey. I would argue that eight or nine out of ten came in that way and therefore there was a need for a better border surveillance system to prevent the jihadists from entering Syria, and this has had an effect. There are a number of those who were arrested and are currently in prison; we have a very topical case with a Syrian warrior sitting in a Turkish prison. So in a way, it's worked. It has been an important agreement and a necessary agreement, although there is so much else wrong with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531131957	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132001	Thank you. First of all, I should like to make a comment. I find it very regrettable that the rapporteur does not actually recognise what is being discussed in virtually the whole of Europe, namely how this agreement, the refugee agreement, is so closely linked to the accession negotiations and therefore also to pre-accession aid. That is what is at the heart of it, namely that an agreement has been drawn up that is so closely bound with it. The rapporteur then says that we should have demanded much more in relation to human rights. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur will not comment on the fact that since we got reports through the recognised press, not just in Denmark, but from several European countries, which pointed to very tangible matters and problems, while we heard criticism from human rights organisations, it has been decided to say: we continue to send 3 billion. euro more go! It does not just go to refugees, for the last portion of money, over 20%, that is to say over 600 million. Euros go to Erdogan. Does it not help to ask whether we should perhaps consider this completely blind extension of that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132121	I have repeatedly criticised human rights violations in Turkey, the violation of the freedom of the press, and I said, even when the agreement was concluded, that I think much more emphasis should have been placed on including these things in the agreement. But we got an agreement, and it was necessary, also to stem the flow of refugees. It was not an optimal agreement, but it was a necessary agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132156	But is it enough to criticize? When are we going to start acting on our criticism as well? I think that this is a very special situation with Turkey, because we have been criticising something for a long time now, so when will there be action behind the words, when will it also have consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132219	Well, I believe, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that joining the European Union is a waste of everyone's time, and they can forget that. In relation to their disloyalty to NATO, I have said on several occasions that they should have a yellow card and that we should continue to point out violations of human rights. I think it is worrying, and it is also the case that Erdogan has some bullies in this country who are harassing, harassing and threatening the Turks who are in opposition to Erdogan, and we should do something about that too. But that we can change that by simply repealing the agreement and abandoning the refugees who benefit from that agreement, I do not think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132318	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Two specific questions: should Denmark work to repeal the accession agreement with Turkey with a view to Turkish membership? And should Denmark work for an impartial investigation into the human rights violations alleged by various human rights organisations at the border between Turkey and Syria, which have been reported in Danish media?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132349	Well, personally, I think you should drop those accession negotiations. It's wasting everyone's time. But that is my personal opinion, it is not the attitude of the government. But I think you have to do it. With regard to investigating violations of human rights, we do not need to investigate it. We know they're going on, and that's why we have to point it out. We must try to push the Turks and Erdogan in particular to press those where it hurts Erdogan and Turkey so that they can at least respect the basics of a legal society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132432	I would like to start by saying thank you, I understand very well that this is a personal opinion. Thank you, however, for expressing the personal view that the rapporteur believes that the pre-accession agreement for membership should be terminated. I think that is a good starting point for further discussion, because it will be something concrete that can be set in motion. In relation to the fact that we know what has happened on the border, we can say that we know it, but it must also mean that we stop immediately. Because if it is the case that the European Union is giving millions and millions to a company that is also owned by a friend of Erdogan to produce some Cobra cars that can drive around and commit human rights violations, then we do agree that this is not going to work. But is it not appropriate, after all, to have an independent investigation of it before such a dramatic step is taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132528	Well, I don't need an investigation. It's going on, there's a lot of evidence of that. But we're not gonna change that by just stepping out of those agreements, because what's the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132543	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132547	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. And at the risk of weary people sitting and listening to me, I will now, for the third time, put the same question to a rapporteur, of course in his capacity as representative of the government, and I hope that the answer will be different from that given by the other rapporteurs. For a party such as the Conservative People's Party, which believes in law and order and in compliance with the rules, it has to hurt right into the heart when migrants rush into Europe without respecting national borders, but just coming in. Is the rapporteur in line with his other fellow rapporteurs from the blue bloc that the way to maintain law and order in this area is to pay a dictator to keep the problem out, or does the rapporteur also want to use the opportunity to defend Europe's external borders by force?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132648	Well, I think it is important that we defend the borders of the European Union, but I do not think we can do this alone. We need the help of the Americans to be able to do the same with the pirates in the past. We couldn't do it alone there either. That's one. Secondly, with refugees, I would like to say that we have our own proposal for asylum reform in Conservatives, in which we say that people cannot just come and seek asylum spontaneously, but that we would like to pick them up in the camps. In this way, we undermine the activities of smugglers... they earn a lot of money from it... and people are not in danger of dying on the road to it or of being subjected to sexual abuse. The most humanistic thing is to say that we cannot get here, that we are bringing people to the camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132743	Thank you. This makes me very happy because although it was well wrapped in different wordings, I heard the rapporteur say that defence of the external borders can also be done by force. Okay. We cannot do this alone, the rapporteur thinks. Okay. However, it is recognised that the use of physical power to maintain borders may be necessary. So I would like to hear: is this something that the rapporteur imagines we can see in the near future, or do you just, what to say, still want to talk about it and then continue to pay and stand with your hands in your pockets?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132821	In other words, as far as I know, there is a form of defence of the EU's borders around the Libyan coast. That is where many people are trying to get over where they are going for traffickers, and I would very much like that much more to be done. Those who smuggle people exploit people economically, but also in terms of their health. They need to be stopped, and they need to be stopped by force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132858	With that, we thank Mr. Naser Khader. And then we go back in the line of rapporteurs, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531132911	Thank you, President. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing a difficult but extremely important subject into the Parliamentary Assembly for a debate which we at least consider to be very relevant. Let me start by saying that in the Radical Left we support the agreement reached between the European Union and Turkey. The basic idea is that Turkey is helping to deal with a very large group of refugees from its neighbouring countries, in order for the European Union to support Turkey in its efforts, including ensuring humanitarian conditions for the very large groups of refugees, who, after all, cannot all go anywhere other than Turkey. When you read the agreement, it actually turns out that there are a lot of good elements in it. What is, after all, the challenge is that that agreement is not being followed to the letter either by the European Union or by Turkey. In the European Union, we have among other things. The challenge raised by the Foreign Minister is that we still have large groups of refugees in Greece who are living in dire conditions on the Greek islands and cannot settle their case. And I was glad that the Secretary of State mentioned pushing. But I hope he will also have the opportunity to perhaps elaborate on how Denmark and the European Union are trying to make something happen on the Greek islands at all, because I really do think that is due to the refugees trapped in a limbo down there. On the Turkish side, as many rapporteurs have said, we are experiencing increasingly problematic behaviour and still major problems in getting a sensible dialogue and cooperation with President Erdogan and his government, which on many levels creates great challenges. What then is today's theme is: is it something that should lead us to terminate the EU-Turkey agreement, as proposed by the three parties? I am glad that it has been taken out with the facility, because I certainly did not think it was constructive. But, of course, the big question is: should that agreement be terminated, given that Erdogan does not comply in a number of other areas with what can be called responsible policy in accordance with international law and human rights? We are not where we think it is a sensible recommendation, and this is due to many different things, including what might be called the actual situation in the iron industry. As among others: Mr. Nick Hækkerup mentioned, this facility is funded in addition to the normal humanitarian aid in the European Union. And that is why we must be embarrassed that in the real world the termination of that agreement will not mean that the European Union can simply give the same money with the other hand. In the real world, a lot of this money comes directly from the Member States, who only want to give these funds because it is part of the agreement. We can be sorry, we may be sorry, we may disagree with that, but that is the situation. And that also means that if Denmark succeeded in terminating this agreement, then refugees in Turkey would miss out on many billions of dollars. We do not want that. On the contrary, we believe that more humanitarian funds are needed in Turkey. It is also clear that the termination of the agreement has a huge impact on the flow of refugees against Europe. I am not sure that this is something that will necessarily benefit the refugees. On the one hand, it is a perilous journey across the Mediterranean, on the other hand, 2015 showed that Europe is not prepared to receive that quantity of refugees. Finally, it can be said that because of these two first things we should punish Erdogan, even if the refugees suffer. Even if it has incalculable consequences for Europe, should it be done on principle and because it is believed that what Erdogan is doing should have a consequence? And there I have to say that I can think of many other things than this particular agreement, the purpose of which is to put pressure on the Turkish Government. I can mention other instruments which I think are better and which do not have the unintended side effects that it wants to terminate this agreement. A lot of it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen sort of referred to. We have never supported the suspension of accession negotiations with Turkey; we have said that we could consider taking a break. Or better still: we could consider laying down more specific conditions for some of the economic benefits that Turkey has from the ongoing negotiations, including the entry into force pool, which has also been mentioned today. You just have to be aware that every time you take up one of these guns, and I'm kind of willing to discuss if you don't have to do it, you've burned off one of them too, and then you have a smaller one in the toolbox. So if you just decide from one day to the next that we are now removing all the appropriations in relation to these pots of entry into force, then you cannot threaten to do so anymore. Then you've done it. It's over. The question one has to ask oneself all the time is: who really benefits from doing so? Is it the opposition in Turkey that is fighting for a better relationship with the European Union, for better maintenance of human rights, for a hope that Turkey can go a different way from that which Erdogan is going? It was not really a very convincing presidential election that Erdogan was given. There is a great and living opposition in Turkey. I am madly concerned that what we are doing strengthens that opposition and fertilizes it and not the opposite. That is why we also agree with the adoption which has been read out and which we consider wiser than the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133530	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133533	Thank you. First of all, I must point out that, as far as the money given in the first part is concerned, that is, the first 3 billion. It is true that there was also a lot of money from the Member States. But we are now debating, and the mandate that Radicals also helped to give the Minister for the debate on how to finance the next part includes negotiating whether or not it should come from the EU's coffers. What Denmark means instead of from the Member States. So it was just to arrest that part. There are two issues that I think are really, really important in this matter. I can fully follow the views of the rapporteur. I can easily understand the dilemmas. But there are two questions with me. One is whether this agreement is such a success that the Radical Left believes that we can copy it to other countries in the vicinity of Europe, i.e. to outsource the management of refugees to other countries, as has been done in Turkey. The second is the human rights aspect and the international legal aspect, that is, the refugee convention, of this agreement. I know that this is something the rapporteur is very concerned about. Does the rapporteur think that there is certainty that in this agreement we are respecting both human rights and the refugee convention? Or have we by making this agreement then given carte blanche that Turkey can do as it pleases them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133657	So there is no reason to hide the fact that there are serious organisations and serious critics who have questioned international law in the agreement. It is, of course, the Commission's own assessments that this agreement remains within the conventions, just as the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes it does. That is, of course, what I am referring to, but let me say frankly that it is not, of course, because we think that all parts of what is going on are at all pleasant to look at. It's not because we're comfortable with everything that's going on. We just find it extremely difficult to say that it would be better and more, you might say, responsible to the refugees just to terminate the agreement. I don't think the choice is that simple. On the contrary, I feel quite convinced that the consequences of abandoning what you have, that is to say the agreement with which you have a hand in dealing, with some reasonable firm commitments that Turkey must answer for what the money is being spent on, etc., are negative. That the refugees inside Turkey should be better off and that we should have more opportunity to check how the refugees are doing if we completely let it go and say that now we will have no agreement at all with Turkey, I think that is an illusion. Then I would like to say on the issue of financing: I am fully aware of the ongoing negotiations. I also think that each Member State should be asked for membership contributions in the next financing negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133829	On the subject of funding: that is not the mandate that has been taken up by the government and that has been supported by the Radical Left. After all, I have had the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on several occasions in consultation with the Committee on European Affairs about this agreement and have asked several times: has this agreement been subject to an ongoing human rights evaluation? And I've been told there isn't. But I would like to know whether this is something that the rapporteur can support, that is to say that we are actually pushing for it to be done. One is that we lean on the government, which leans on the Commission, which leans on the Turkish Government. Another thing is to get a proper evaluation of the human rights aspects of this agreement, so that we learn more about it and see whether it is really so good to go on with, or whether we need to find other ways of providing the humanitarian aid that the refugees can get than sending at least over 20%. of the funds directly to Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531133918	I mean, I believe in, and I will support, that we are putting all the focus we can at all on the ongoing debate on the implementation of this agreement and putting it under the illusion and that is also why I am pleased with the debate today. I'm not sure about anything else, except that reality is so difficult because that's the way law is also that different estimates can be made here. It's not always the case that law is bent in neon. That is why I think it is so difficult that we cannot say for sure that the Commission is right or that the critics are right. I think both sides have a point. I would say that I feel reasonably convinced that if it finally gets there, we are on the right side of the law. But I do not feel convinced that I still think everything that is going on is okay. I was asked whether I thought the agreement should be copied to other areas. It's not that simple. There is a great deal of difference between the countries we are talking about here, from Turkey, to Libya, to Morocco and so on, so you cannot just do that. But there are some basic elements that I think should be pursued in relation to those countries where it makes sense. It's just not all countries where it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134032	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134032-2	We again have two discussions, that is, the debate on the refugee facility and the debate on pre-accession aid. I just want to know whether the rapporteur supports the people of the European Parliament, for example. ALDE's rapporteur, who expressed yesterday evening's wish to see an independent investigation of the events taking place at the Turkish-Syrian border, with a view to clarifying whether amounts from the EU have gone to support human rights violations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134113	Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to follow that debate in the European Parliament last night, which is why it is not quite clear to me what is meant by an impartial inquiry. As Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself mentioned, the EU's own • in quotation marks is the Kingdom Audit itself on the field to investigate some of this. It is an impartial investigation for me, but it may be that there is something else in it, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard thinks, but I must then have specified that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134137	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134139	So what the European Court of Auditors, the European Court of Auditors, has decided is the refugee facility. That's the investigation they're doing. These are some very concrete events that have been mentioned in Politiken, which Danwatch has been involved in, and which have been published around the world, I believe. Last night's debate in the European Parliament I can recommend going in and seeing it; it lasts only an hour. It was also relatively heated because of course people are asking the question: can it really be true that, in order to give pre-accession aid to Turkey, we are going to give money to armored Cobra vehicles, produced by a friend of Erdogan, who may be abused for human rights violations? That is exactly what we want to examine. How can this be investigated, of course, can we come back to it, but do we support the fact that there will be an investigation into that particular relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134245-2	I support clear transparency at all times about everything that is going on, as there are EU funds going on in this area too. When I answer such a little weaver, it is because I actually thought that it was some of the things that, among other things. to be examined by, if I may say so, the EU's national audit. But I have no desire whatsoever for anything other than full clarity about everything that has happened in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134307	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134324	Thank you. As several speakers have said in the debate and on which I believe there is agreement, there are many dilemmas in what we are discussing here, and there was, as it were, when we adopted the Turkish facility here in the Folketing, and they are, after all, a lot about how we should deal with Turkey and how much emphasis is placed on Turkey as a destabilising element of international policy at the moment. We believe that what is happening in Turkey in these years is deeply, deeply serious. There is Islamisation, there is repression of all democratic rights, and there is a development in which Erdogan like trying to become sultan in a new Ottoman Empire, to put it that way. This is deeply, deeply worrying, also because it has consequences elsewhere in the Middle East. This has consequences in Syria with the Turkish aggression in the province of Afrin, which is not to defend our interest in fighting Islamism, but to defend a narrow Turkish interest in fighting Kurds, and which, if I may say so, is governed by what benefits Turkish domestic policy. It is not possible to deal with this, to put it bluntly, and that is why we need to have a more comprehensive discussion on how we deal with the Turkish problem. The government said last year that all negotiations on Turkish EU membership would be suspended in any case. We disagreed. We think it is wiser to have a strategy to suspend negotiations until certain requirements are met. This is a much wiser way of doing it, and that is also what we are doing in the proposal for adoption we have here, and it is also an answer to Mr Beazley's question. Martin Lidegaard. We are not proposing to abandon the Turkey agreement, but we are proposing to suspend it until there are a number of demands on human rights that have been achieved. I think it is important that we have that pressure all the time, but also that we are willing, if I may say so, to put action behind the pressure we put on Turkey. I think that is also important in relation to the Turkish opposition, that is, that it knows that unless Erdogan changes course, the economic consequences of the West will be felt. A number of people have also said that we have brought ourselves into an unpleasant dependency relationship with Erdogan and Turkey through this agreement. Some might say that we have agreed with the devil himself, like Faust in his time, to achieve some other things. You have to be careful not to go into agreement with the devil. But the truth is that Erdogan is also dependent on us. It is, after all, a interdependence that has come there and the dependence that he has is also the financial support that we give to Turkey. It is true, as some have said, that elections will have to be held in Turkey before that time, and Erdogan is not as stuck in the saddle as everyone claims. There is, in fact, a living opposition in Turkey and whether it can, if I may say so, get wind in the sails depends very much on whether Erdogan can continue to go out and say that it is his, the sultan's, fault that the Turkish economy is doing so well. The fact that we are strengthening the Turkish economy is also helping to strengthen Erdogan, and that is why I think it is perfectly legitimate for us to say with this that unless Turkey changes horse, we will give it some economic consequences, as we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134754	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments, and so we have actually come to listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531134809	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate. Thank you for your comments, and indeed also for your general interest in our relations with Turkey, migration and the Turkey Facility. Fortunately, today's debate has confirmed that the Folketing supports the EU-Turkey agreement, including the replenishment of the Turkish facility, also with Danish and other Member States' funding. It is less than in the past, but it is also with national support. Since 2016, the agreement has contributed significantly to curbing the flow of refugees and migrants from Turkey to Europe, while the agreement with its humanitarian aim has helped to improve the lives of millions of Syrian refugees in Turkey, among others. through emergency financial assistance, medical care and education. EU support, both under the Turkey Facility and outside the Turkey Facility, must, of course, comply with both EU legislation and international law, and that is also very much what the debate has been about here today, including respect for human rights. These are matters closely monitored by the European Commission, on which Denmark is in an ongoing dialogue with the European Commission. As we have discussed, developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights give cause for serious concern, as all the rapporteurs have already said today. These are conditions which both Denmark and the EU travel over and over again, and from the Danish side it has been the consequence that the government believes that EU accession negotiations with Turkey should be stopped. But thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135001	Thank you. Well, there was one more brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135011	Thank you. I have put a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 105 on respect for human rights in this agreement. And, of course, I have received the answer that the agreements must live up to human rights as they should every time you make agreements with Denmark and the European Union. I would like to know whether real evaluations of this agreement are being made on the basis of human rights, on whether they are being complied with, or whether we are simply leaning on the Turkish Government's response to the question of whether human rights are being respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135055	The Commission and the committees of officials, as there are, are constantly being followed up, and it is important that they are followed up. We also do this from the Danish side through the dialogue that we regularly have when, for example, I. meet with the Turkish Foreign Minister. So there are a great many areas where action is being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135120	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135122	In the past, I have asked the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, in consultation, whether evaluations are also being made on the basis of the human rights of this agreement, and was told that it is not. But then you follow it up, I hear. Could the Minister see an idea in that perhaps such a little more formal follow-up was made with proper evaluations to see whether this agreement is now so much in line with human rights, the refugee conventions, etc., as expressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135150-2	One of the things that we are also doing in addition to participating in the many projects under the Turkey Facility is that we support Turkey, as we have also discussed in today's debate, with pre-accession funds, the so-called IPA funds, in many areas, for example. the promotion of democracy, the environment, transport, energy, agriculture and employment. In the period from 2014 to 2020, 4,4 billion is needed. The euro earmarked for Turkey, but because of the developments seen in Turkey, a decision has been taken to cut this IPA funding to the support given there in order to focus precisely on democracy, civil society and the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135236	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135239	Thank you. I am just a little curious about the question I asked, about the refugees in Greece and their situation, and what is actually happening in the European Union to try to unblock that knot and clarify the fate of those people. I know that Denmark has contributed with case officers and in other ways, but it seems to me that things are a little quiet at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135300-2	It is quite right to understand that it is far too quiet and, of course, we are following it continuously to see what we can do to get the process under way with the funds that we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135312	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135314	Can you get it a little closer? So, is it something that concerns the Council, is it something that concerns the ministerial colleagues, or is it a little forgotten, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135327-2	No, I think it is generally a great many people who are concerned that this agreement should be followed up in relation to one-on-one. After all, everyone has an interest in that part of the agreement being followed up. So my impression is that, in general, it is something that is focused on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135341	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135345	Thank you. As far as this one-to-one system is concerned, I guess it's almost become a two-to-one system, if not no more. I would like to know whether the Minister will be working on a zero-to-zero system, that is to say that we can reject but should not receive? And what are we going to do to at least keep it down on a one-to-one system? Does the Minister have any comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135416	Yes, there is clearly an imbalance in relation to the one-to-one system that was intended. Pr. On 13 May 2018, 2,212 were returned from Greece to Turkey in accordance with the EU-Turkey Agreement. By way of comparison, the EU has re-inhabited 13,485 migrants from Turkey from 4 April 2016 to 13 May 2018. So it is clear that there is an imbalance in the figures, and the reason is, of course, that, as I mentioned in the previous reply, it has been difficult for the Greek authorities to get sufficient momentum on the return, in particular the Greek asylum system has had to be strengthened and the Greek appeal system has had to be built up to start working. It has taken time and it is not possible at this stage to say anything about whether or when the return is being seriously speeded up, but the goal is that it will be there so that we get as close to the wording of the agreement as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135518	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135520	It is, of course, about one to four, as I remember the figures, I can understand where one originally agreed a one-to-one scheme. That means that the net influx to Europe is going on. I would like to return to the classic question: does the Minister feel that there is a basis for starting to defend his external borders, Europe's external borders, by force?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135548	If we now take the debate on Israel-Palestine, we have had a discussion at various meetings too, and there we have a recognition, just as we have in relation to the border discussion that is for Turkey and into the Afrin area, that a nation has the right to defend its borders by force. There has to be proportionality in what is going on, and that, of course, is also true in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135620	As long as you don't start using the same logic with Russia and Ukraine, then I will be really nervous. But, of course, this is a completely different discussion. In relation to pre-accession aid, which is not small change, it is over the last two budget cycles of 9 billion. EUR such 65-70 billion. DKK, paid by Danish and other taxpayers in the EU. So that's a lot of money we're talking about there. That is why I have a question which I hope the Foreign Minister will be able to clarify. Is it correct to understand that it is a condition for the granting of pre-accession aid that normal democratic standards are met and that human rights are respected? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135714	I have some doubts about exactly what is expected of answers to that question. There are conditions associated with pre-accession funds, and whether or not they are met is being followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135731	If it is a requirement to receive pre-accession aid that human rights are respected, the fact that Turkey is still receiving pre-accession aid must mean that it is in the European Union's world that they live up to human rights or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135755	I think the questioner is aware that in this way the relationship is not one by one, because the point is precisely for countries that receive pre-accession funds, among other things. is that they do not yet meet the Copenhagen criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135812	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and I understand that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as the proposer would like to round off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531135828	Thank you. I am not going to do this far, but I have two comments, one on the substance and the other on the form. First to the contents. I think that the debate we have had today has actually put a very thick point under the fact that there is something that needs to be discussed more in depth, because there is no doubt in any of those I have heard speaking here from the platform that we see breaches of human rights. Then the question is how to weigh it up in relation to what is in the adoption by the majority that is behind it, namely that at the same time the flow of refugees and migrants to Europe is being curbed. That is the balance on which we must, of course, discuss it, I think, especially because we are talking very seriously about copying these agreements. Then there has been a little bit about whether it was the facility or whether it was pre-accession aid. I think it is a good thing that, through the negotiations, we can also present a text and change the texts, that is what this is all about, because these are debates in this Chamber. Negotiations do not just take place outside the Chamber. But I just think we should have in mind that these agreements are so closely bound together. We cannot believe that we can stand and separate them completely and then polish the gloria for that reason. We need to understand the complexity of the fact that the agreements are bound together. Thank you for that debate. I think it is going to go on, also because we see it copied to other countries. You talk about Libya, you talk about Morocco, you talk about Egypt. So more to the form, and it's actually just to tell you, ladies and gentlemen and rapporteurs, that I really think we should try to use these formats to also take some of the basic discussions. When I chose not only to call the Foreign Minister in consultation on this matter, it is because I actually think it is an important political matter which also requires the opinion of each and every one of us. Let us use the debates for that rather than just going down the very formalistic path of adoption texts and commas, but actually also using them to discuss content. So it was really just a short call from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531140031	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I would remind you again that the vote on the proposals submitted, and there are three, will take place tomorrow, Friday, 1 June 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180531140047	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, June 1, 2018 at 1 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
