ParlaMint-DK_20180130130032	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and others.: Question No. F 20 (What can the government say about the persecution of members of the Falun Gong movement in China, and what is the government's view that the Chinese authorities are allegedly extracting bodies from captured Falun Gong practitioners and other political and religiously persecuted prisoners in China?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130109	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130155	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130206	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by Martin Henriksen (DF) as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130220	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130238	Thank you. I would just like to make a few comments on that. It is the case that Denmark holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe and the government has chosen them to have a fairly reasonable line in this area that they will try to get other countries to make a statement which should move towards interpreting the European Convention on Human Rights a little differently, so that there will be a greater room for manoeuvre for the nation states, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. should allow more criminal foreigners to be expelled. This is a sensible agenda. But what we are trying to do with this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is to show that there is another way to go. You can, of course, pursue this track internationally, and we in the Danish People's Party think it is good that you do this, but you can also do something nationally. What can be done in concrete terms is to write the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish legislation, and then you can write in a number of cases that if there are conflicts or doubts about Danish legislation on the one hand and the European Convention on Human Rights on the other hand, Danish legislation applies. It is a model which is possible and which we have also been able to confirm can easily be done. I have a feeling that there is a broad majority in this House who will reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We are sorry about this in the Danish People's Party. The next time there are problems with the expulsion of a criminal foreigner, the Danes know who to point the finger at, who, so to speak, has obstructed it. It's just for general orientation if there's someone out there watching. But if we go some way towards the process that is going on, towards the Council of Europe and then there is a majority in this House who considers that it is not enough that we have not got far enough, that it has not been easy enough, for example. If we are to expel criminal foreigners, we can always take the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party out of the drawer another good time. Because then you know that's the way to do it at national level. And the good thing about this model is that if there comes another country and vetos there are 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, then they can make it as crazy as they want, because we can adopt it here nationally. So it should be the comments from this and then, of course, a call for a reconsideration if it was not worth pressing the green button instead of the red button.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130439	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130444	Thank you. After all, I was with the rapporteur at the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly last week. There was a meeting devoted to the rights of people with disabilities in Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Russia. What is the rapporteur's position and that of the rapporteur's party when it comes to guaranteeing human rights for people in other countries, in other words, that it is not just about what Denmark can be allowed to do, but how we ensure that people can live without being persecuted, for example, because of their sexual orientation in countries such as Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130520	If we assume that we did not have the European Convention on Human Rights, then it would always be a country that would be free to make representations to other countries if we were to think that there is a development there that is worrying. So it will be possible to do that regardless of whether the convention exists or not. But it is also important to stress that with the Danish People's Party's proposal we are writing the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish legislation. And then we write that in those cases where the Folketing says that we say, for example. in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to show more criminal foreigners, but where this is not possible for the sake of the European Convention on Human Rights, then it is a majority of the Folketing that decides it in the end. That is what our proposal is about. And then, in fact, we will still be in the European Convention on Human Rights and the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130556	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130559	But if it does not, then it is a country like Azerbaijan free from, for example. to persecute people who have a sexual orientation that is not within the norm, i.e. for example. A gay, a transperson, etc.? Because if we write it out of Danish legislation, if we no longer want to be stopped on human rights and the Court of Human Rights, how can we ensure that other countries do not do the same? Or does the Danish People's Party really believe that it should be completely free to carry out the persecution of individuals in other countries, so that there is no point in us actually choosing to stand together, 47 countries, to stop each other from treating people and citizens properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130636	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130638	Of course, there are things that countries can come together and that are sensible, but sometimes the countries also come together on some things that are not so reasonable, for example. to protect criminal foreigners from being expelled. And that is what we are trying to deal with with with our motion for a resolution. I would just like to say that Denmark is today part of the European Convention on Human Rights and we are part of the Council of Europe. It hasn't really happened that these countries are suddenly starting to behave. Well, we're constantly affecting these countries. It is not the case that the European Convention on Human Rights has solved all these problems; in some areas it has also helped to create problems. In some areas it has removed rights from Danes. That is absurd, because Danes are also a kind of people; at least some of us think so. So, there we have seen that the European Convention on Human Rights has been used to remove the positive special treatment that the Folketing has indicated that one should have in relation to Danes who want to have a foreign spouse in Denmark. And when we cannot give positive special treatment to Danes who want to do so, it is because we are in the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130729	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130731	Thank you. When I listen to the rapporteur, I would certainly like to say that just because there is a situation where the people of Azerbaijan and Russia do not have their human rights, that is not an argument for taking human rights from the Danes. And that is exactly what the Danish People's Party is proposing here. If the proposals of the Danish People's Party come through now and here, the Danes will be deprived of their basic human rights as guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. And it has a meaning. If we just look at the judgments that have been against Denmark, for example, we can. see that it is something that has ensured Danes better legal certainty and better and more freedom of expression. So the human rights convention has a consequence for us here in Denmark. So when the Danish People's Party makes this proposal, it is a proposal that takes rights from all Danes. All Danes will be worse off with the proposal made today by the Danish People's Party, and I would just like to hear the rapporteur confirm that this is the case. This will affect all Danes in relation to their currently guaranteed rights in the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130833	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130834	The rights of the Danes are first and foremost guaranteed in the Danish constitution. This is on which the Danish democracy and popular government rests, it is on which Denmark rests. Let us not forget that we actually have a very good constitution. No, I cannot confirm that, if the European Convention on Human Rights was written out of Danish law, rights would be taken from Danes on a large scale. In some cases, this Parliament would be more free to grant extra rights to Danes. That is also what we have seen in the Biao judgment, as I remember it being said, where the European Convention on Human Rights entered into, on the basis of the Convention, and said that a special group of Danes were given rights to the Folketing, and the Folketing must not do so. So in some cases the convention can also be used to take rights from Danes. This is deeply problematic and very unsympathetic in the view of the Danish People's Party. I also believe that many Danes feel that as a country we should be right, and some would think so too, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is the duty of the Danish People's Party to expel criminal foreigners if they violate Danish law, and this also prevents the convention in a number of cases. We think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130938	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130130940	There has been, for example, a study by the Institute for Human Rights which said that the European Court of Human Rights could probably show far more than it does today. On the other hand, I would urge the rapporteur to take a look at the facts of this matter. So, for example, the Jersild judgment was a judgment that extended freedom of expression in Denmark and which Danish courts, before the European Court of Human Rights judgment fell, said that the Constitution did not secure. The Constitution did not guarantee the freedom of expression granted to us by the Jersild judgment because of the European Convention on Human Rights and because of the European Court of Human Rights. So what the Danish People's Party is saying here is really that the freedom of expression of the Danes must be curtailed, and the rapporteur should relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131024	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is welcome to go in and read the record of what I have said. Because I am quite sure that it is nowhere that the Danish People's Party wants to restrict the freedom of expression of the Danes. Of course, I may have said something that I cannot recall here, but I am quite sure that it is about within the dial.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131039	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131043	I think it is disgraceful that the Danish People's Party will take a stand against the European Convention on Human Rights. After all, the whole debate on human rights came on top of World War II, on top of the persecution of Jews and others. It is a set of rules that must guarantee us all, regardless of their background. But I have a specific question. Sir. Martin Henriksen continues to say that these judgments are the cause of this, but is it not to speak against better knowledge? By Mr. Martin Henriksen not that it is the interpretation of Danish courts and not something that is said in granite in the Convention and that there has been a debate about that particular thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131128	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131130	It is true that in some cases the interpretation of the Convention by Danish courts is the problem, and in some cases it is the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that are the problem. Both are based on the Convention and interpretation of the Convention. The Convention can be interpreted in many different ways, and it is true that the Convention was written in a different time, and we are just pointing out in the Danish People's Party that things are evolving. It's been a long time, and we have to keep up with time. If we adopt a law in here in the Folketing, with which a majority is dissatisfied, then we go in and change that legislation. The problem with the European Convention on Human Rights, which can be described as a law which is then interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights and the Danish courts, is, of course, that 47 countries must agree if they want to change it. It is, of course, very, very difficult, and one might also think that it is perhaps a little undemocratic. But that is where it stands out in relation to Danish laws, where it is so that if we are dissatisfied with a ruling coming from a court in Denmark, we can go in and adopt a new law in Denmark, and that is a little more difficult in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. So I actually think it illustrates very well that things are evolving and then we need to keep up with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131235	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131238	But that is the whole idea, just so that a smaller number of countries may share the view of the Danish People's Party that human rights are junk, not just can write themselves out of it, but that we give citizens throughout Europe, including Jews and others who have been persecuted over time, a common security. Sir. Martin Henriksen keeps talking about the constitution, but human rights are not protected in the Danish constitution, so what should replace the European Convention on Human Rights in Danish law? Should it be written in almost word for word in relation to what we have at European level today? It's gonna sound a little bit like sir. Martin Henriksen believes that the Convention on Human Rights is only about criminal foreigners. It does not, and the Institute for Human Rights has also said that it is the interpretation of Danish courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131328	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131331	This is, of course, also a controversial point of view, but if we say that we are writing the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish legislation, then it will then be up to the Folketing to define what the rules should be in those areas. It may be that this is a controversial point of view here in the Folketing, but one might also think that it is perhaps a very legitimate view that we who sit in here, elected by the Danes, also have the opportunity to express some of the things that we have actually gone to the polls. I guess it's actually pretty democratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131406	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131409	I seem to sense that the Danish People's Party has moderated itself a little in this debate. After all, we are completely isolated from the view that we should withdraw human rights from Danish legislation, and then we have tabled an amendment which, in order to remain in the Council of Europe and for other reasons, has moderated it somewhat. I think that is a good thing at second reading when the moro of proposals has settled. It is nothing new to criticise human rights and the Court of Human Rights, although it is a protection and protection for 820 million Europeans against violations by their own state. Danes have also enjoyed this, for example. a Dane had to wait eight years for compensation for a car accident, but then he got the word of the Court of Human Rights that it was too long. I do not know whether the Danish People's Party considers this to be a violation of democracy in Denmark. I don't think so. But there remains a question that I had the pleasure of discussing with one of the MEPs of the Danish People's Party, and I would really like to hear the answer from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament as well: is it the view of the Danish People's Party that the world was a better place without the Court of Human Rights and that Denmark should therefore not be bound by it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131517	It is the view of the Danish People's Party that things are evolving, that new challenges are emerging and that we need to keep up with them, and there is a problem if we are part of a regime that makes it impossible for us to develop and not have the opportunity to do what we in the Danish Parliament think is right. That is the position of the Danish People's Party. I think that is quite clear, and I think we have made that clear several times. That is basically what this resolution is about. If you write the convention out of Danish law, the Folketing is freer to assess which policy and what rules should apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131547	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131548	I have heard the arguments for the motion for a resolution, but now I am asking at a more fundamental level for a clear answer. Does the Danish People's Party want a situation in which the Court of Human Rights is not where 820 million Europeans cannot complain about violations of their basic rights to a court that commits countries beyond those that are national? It is, after all, a trivial question: does it seem that the world was a better place without the Declaration of Human Rights and without the Court of Human Rights to maintain it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131620-2	In the ideal world, we would like Denmark not to be subject to the European Court of Human Rights, but if other countries want to be subject to it, they are, of course, completely free to do so. We then acknowledge that there is no majority in favour of this, and that is why we have told the government that the agenda we have in connection with the Presidency of the Council of Europe, which says that we will try to get the other countries to interpret the convention differently, so that, for example, it will be easier to expel more criminal foreigners, is a good agenda, and the government must finally pursue it. So we just say "and there we are dependent on the other 46 Member States, each country can veto, and then it falls to the ground" there is also another model where it would ultimately be up to us in here to assess what rules should apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131704	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131708	First of all, a clarification: we are not subject to the European Convention on Human Rights; we are in agreement with the European Convention on Human Rights. Now I have the pleasure of also being a teaching rapporteur, and when I debate school policy with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I hear that one is very concerned about the history of Danish cultural history, spiritual history and religious history that we have in Denmark, which we have in Denmark, is something that we must very much hold on to, carry on and teach our young people about. Human rights are based on something quite violent historical events that took place in the 1930s and 1940s in Europe, but suddenly it is obviously not so important for the Danish People's Party to learn from history when it comes to that kind of experience or what? When should we learn from history and use it in our political work in Denmark? And when should we not learn from history and use it in our political work in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131807	You must always learn from your experiences and learn from them. I think that's very wise. But that doesn't mean everything has to stand still. We also have a lot of laws that have been passed in Denmark at the time, and where one may well have the view that there was a good reason why the law was introduced at the time, but that there is now a need to adjust it or perhaps abolish it. It's easy to do that. And I think that the best thing would be for the European Convention on Human Rights to function more as a law rather than as something which, as it were, is above the law. I think that would be preferable, especially when what we are building on is democratic values.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131847	Here you go, Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131849	After all, the European Convention on Human Rights reminds us of a time in our world history and European history, which I hope will never come back. That's why it's important. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that, for that reason alone, it is extremely important that we maintain respect for and adherence to the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130131913	But I've answered that question. Our motion for a resolution stresses, of course, that we believe that the time has come for us to do something else. This does not mean that we should not learn lessons from, for example. World War II or World War I or the Cold War. It doesn't mean that. This is, for example, a task to be undertaken in primary school, and we should be better off at that. But we must also respect the fact that things can develop, and a country must be allowed to defend itself. So, there are some coming into this country; we take them seriously, listen to their case and consider that they should be allowed to be in Denmark; and then we tell them to comply with some rules, because we have adopted some legislation here in the Danish Parliament. We have been mandated to do so by the Danish electorate, who typically go down every four years and vote that we should, for example, expel criminal foreigners, and we must of course be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132003	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132005	After all, it is remarkable if the opposition to the Convention and human rights were to come from a country such as Denmark, which is in fact one of the countries with the highest judgments against it, which is proof that our legal tradition and our values are very much in line with those on which the Convention on Human Rights is based. This is quite different, for example. In Turkey, I think that's something that Mr. Martin Henriksen is also very concerned about. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Martin Henriksen, if it would not be a serious deterioration for the Turks if they could no longer go to court and complain when their rights are not respected by a regime such as that, I think, Mr President. Martin Henriksen and I agree that there is no respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132054	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132056	But they would still be able to do so with the proposals of the Danish People's Party. That does not change the Danish People's Party's proposal in any way. It is about Danish legislation, not Turkish legislation. It's just to make it absolutely clear. I am quite sure that we have not mentioned Turkey in our resolution. This is about Denmark and whether we should have a free framework in Denmark. It is absolutely true, as Mrs Zenia Stamp says, that Denmark is a doll in that context. That's right. Some are proud of us, and some may be less proud of it. But the fact that Denmark, as a country that is known to always comply with international rules, comes and says that it has gone too far is, in fact, very sensible, because it may well be that some other countries wake up and think that if Denmark of all countries says so, there is probably something about the talk; then they may have a point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132143	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132146	I think the Turks will be really happy and say that if the duck in the class also thinks it has gone too far, we can also withdraw; why should we stay if a country like Denmark does not? But now it is that Mr. Martin Henriksen says it has gone too far and the area which Mr. Martin Henriksen and the Danish People's Party are engaged in expulsion. Then I'll just have to ask you if mr. Martin Henriksen is aware of the latest developments in the court: to leave more national room for manoeuvre to the nation states, and to go into fewer cases, among others. After the Brighton Declaration, which was adopted a few years ago. It was clearly the 47 countries that joined forces and said to the Court that they wanted to have more national room for manoeuvre. Is Mr. Martin Henriksen knows about this development?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132227	I am, and it was Britain who took it up at the time and helped to get the Brighton Declaration drawn up. I believe that most countries have now ratified that declaration. It is also something that I know the Danish Presidency has attached great importance to, and I think that is also positive. But it just underlines that, although it is a very large and heavy system, it is actually possible to influence things. I also think that underlines the point I made at one point, namely that there are also other countries that can see that there are some problems. Among other things: Britain can see that there are some problems. It is true that the declaration adopted in Brighton solved something of that, but it did not solve everything. And that is how we politicians are organised, that is to say, if we think there is a problem that needs to be resolved and we solve a quarter of it, then when it is resolved we will tackle the rest. So that's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132317	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132330	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 23 (DF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132436	Here's to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132444	Thank you. Today is a good day for justice, for today the Folketing will remove the limitation period with backwards force in relation to claims for damages and claims against administrative authorities. The amendment on which we are about to adopt a position means that a limitation period will no longer be able to prevent, for example, a period of limitation. The Godhavn boys may bring claims for damages in cases where the authorities have failed. It is a huge victory for those who have experienced abuse; now they can finally raise the cases which they have otherwise been prevented from travelling because of the limitation period. As recently as November last year, the Østre Landsret rejected a claim for damages because the limitation period had been exceeded. Once the draft law has been adopted at the third reading next week, there will no longer be any limitation period in the way of an action for damages. If we did not abolish the limitation period with retroactive effect, we would abandon people like the Godhavns boys, who have been abandoned by the Danish state and among other things. subjected to psychological terror and gross violence while in orphanages in the 1960s and 1970s, who have been fighting for compensation for torture and for an apology for years. But there are also more recent cases. The Children's Terms organization has many examples of cases where people who have been subjected to abuse are today fighting for compensation. Now an additional opportunity has been given for these people to achieve justice. There is no guarantee that a trial will be won, but there is now a new opportunity to make claims and win court proceedings. Technically speaking, this is an amendment to the draft law we are debating, L 31, where the draft law before the amendment would remove the limitation period for claims both for new cases and for cases where the limitation period has not expired with the existing rules. However, the draft law will not ensure until we adopt the amendment in a moment that cases where the limitation period has already expired with the existing rules will be included. That changes the amendment in that there is now a majority in favour of it and that a unanimous Parliament will vote in favour. It is not until 8 February that the third reading and the final adoption of this legislative proposal are completed, but it is today that we are voting on the amendment that abolishes the limitation period. That is also why there are today representatives of the Godhavns boys in the gallery. As a rule, limitation periods cannot be waived retroactively, but authorities do not have human rights in this way, so when it comes to claims and the failure of the authorities in these cases to citizens, it is possible to abolish limitation periods, even retroactively. The Godhavn boys' Facebook page says: the following in the description of the group: And then we remember the friends who already gave up during the placement time, and we remember the friends and their relatives who have not made a living, where from the beginning we had these words knocked into our heads again and again: You are nothing and never become anything, you are just a discarded youth, who no one wants to know. It's not like that today. Today, it is those who have been subjected to abuse and abuse that have won. It is a person who has won over the system, won over injustice, won the right to bring claims in the courts. That is why it is a good day today for justice and for those who have been subjected to abuse, and it is also a good day because we can see that it is good to fight, fight for justice, fight for redress. I wish the Godhavn boys and the many others who are now being given the opportunity to raise claims for damages continued to fight well. It is a battle that will now be possible for more people to wage in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130132918	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 85 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Three, tabled by the same minority, rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 by the Minister for Justice, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA). The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of IA). It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130133204	The debate has been opened, and it is first Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130133228	We're not all tall, so I'm gonna go down the door a little bit so I can look over it. It is hardly surprising that I am going to use today's draft law to amend the law on the election of the Councils of the People's Church to reiterate the Social Democrats' desire for a more radical simplification and amendment of the laws and regulations relating to the National Church, so that its structure and organisation are modernised and made more transparent, and so that there is modernisation of the state's subsidy from a partial wage subsidy to a more neutral block grant. The reason for modernisation has been in the government base both in 2007 and in 2011 by two very different governments, and we actually thought that there were good points in both government bases and in the work that followed, why we would like to see it followed up within the good framework of the Constitution for religious freedom and legislation for the people's church. We do, however, have to admit that there is not much party politics in today's draft law. It is very much about doing something more legal, making something more firm. There have been pilot schemes for two-year parliamentary term instead of four-year parliamentary term, and now there is a legal framework for how this can work in a simplified way so that you do not have to go to the Ministry to get permission but can go to the Bishop. And, of course, there must be some rules on how it should be organised. The proposal has also been consulted, as usual, and the church of the people is a very large area, so it has actually been sent out to over a few thousand, and only 26 responses have been received, and only four of them are critical. This shows that the legislative proposal we are discussing here today has hit very well. There are some who say: okay, what does it mean that you also change it a little so that there is an electoral assembly that can decide on something and that you can choose at an electoral assembly? Can you do more than you can do today? In fact, I think we can do less, because if there are only proposals in an electoral assembly, there is a time limit afterwards of a few weeks in which a list can be made, if you think there should be a proper election. So I really think that today's draft law has taken account of some of the things that may be right to discuss. I also think it is a good thing that we are putting an end to the fact that peace elections were, like, something that was not so legal and that it was finer with a battle election. After all, the most important thing is for us to have some congregational councils that work and work on the premises of the individual parishes. For the church is a parish church, which is why it is important that it is also the citizens who live there and participate in the work that make up the church council. We as a party can recommend the shift in today's bill and we look forward to it increasing interest. After all, we do not have a national church if the interest in participating in democracy falls. It is of no use that one likes the content of the church itself if one does not also want to help care for the running of the church. So I think that should also be said today: it is an invitation to get more people to stand for congregational elections and interfere in ordinary parish work. It costs something to have a democratic public church, a spacious and wide public church, and there were others who could help carry it forward. I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who, because of the pressure of time, cannot be here to make his speech and say that the Radical Left also supports today's legislative proposal. And that is what we are doing in the Social Democratic Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130133637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130133644	Thank you, President. In other words, it is possible to feel this way at least once in a while when it comes to legislative proposals that are coming, that one wants to give it as such old-fashioned tiredness and pour out one's righteous indignation over the innovation sickness that shakes society, where the renewal of legislation as well as administration only leads to more bureaucracy and increasingly voluminous administration. But I would actually say that the bill here implies what I can at least see as a real renewal that everything else equal makes life a little easier for the church roots out there. When I make a reservation, it is because of some comprehensional details which do not concern the legislative proposal itself, but the overall context. And I believe and hope that the work of the committee will clarify this. But first, I would like to praise the idea of electoral assemblies. I'd like to confess that when I first heard about the idea, I shot it down like the stupidity. Perhaps the reason was that I was extremely irritated by the person who put the idea forward, and that may have weakened my judgment. Or maybe I didn't understand at the time what it was supposed to do good for. In English, you have an expression that reads: "If it isn't broken, don't fix it·. So: There is no need to repair anything that works. And that works pretty much in the church. It is then still a quiet reservation that I will take. Nevertheless, I think the bill is glowed with a sense of discretion and respect for what is given, which I appreciate. The idea that instead of holding a church council election, you can hold a voting election, as you do on the board of directors at a general meeting, is well thought out, especially because the holding of a church council election is always an option that still lies there if required and needed. If the need is not there, it seems good, old-fashioned Jysk snuff, that you can sort things out at an election meeting during a single meeting. Frankly, it saves a lot of people a lot of trouble and seems well thought out. Now we come to the detail in which, as you know, the devil is hidden, and not least in the church of the people, for we have in the church in connection with the election of the Council of Congregations something that is a little contradictory called the election of peace. It is that the church council decides not to hold elections. It may well be that some members are being replaced, but the church council considers that it has support in the congregation and can therefore continue. Of course, elections can always take place if someone so requires, but the possibility of not holding elections is also present. Then comes my question: What is the place of the so-called peace elections, and how is this understood in the new system? It was a question for the Minister. I see it as a hallmark that the wonderful and rewarding way in which things take place in the people's church is taken into account in legislation. With these words and with this reservation, which concerns the detail and which has raised a question to the Minister, I will conclude my rapporteur's speech by saying that the DF looks very positively at the proposal but will wait to give binding support until the questions of doubt have been resolved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134038	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. And then it's sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134047	Thank you, President. The Left can support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they can do so. The two previous rapporteurs have mentioned some of the details and elements of the draft law, and we also support them. But the Left's approach to this is based on the fact that over the year and day we have experienced a decline in support in relation to the fact that there is a definite popular election to the church councils. It is about the number of citizens who want to make themselves available, the number of citizens who want to join in a four-year period we all know the challenge. This was the reason why this issue was addressed in the 2015 government base in order to set up a committee that could work on it and make recommendations. Those recommendations have been discussed politically well and thoroughly in the Ministry with the Minister for the Table End, where we have had the opportunity to get around in all the hooks: what about peace elections, which have been the previous arrangement, just to take a random example? How can we make it more transparent as a method, in other words open? How do we ensure that what was de facto developed as the form on which the church councils were put together and which has become the bearer is something that one still has the opportunity to do, if one wishes to do so locally, namely to make a list, so that there is also a choice? On a long stretch, we have supported the committee's proposal. There are some elements in what we have not supported, among others. the fact that any elections would take place at the same time and place as the municipal elections and follow the same parliamentary term. These are good intentions, which were not supported in the consultation responses, nor were they supported in the considerations put forward by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior on this subject, in relation to how easy it should be. The Danish National Church is anchored in the people, and this is expressed by support in the form of the work of the congregation councils. It is therefore not insignificant that we should look on the one hand at how we make this work attractive and easy, in other words as a role to perform. But it is also not insignificant that we have a look at the democratic formation of the congregation councils in a good way. It is my impression that the draft law ensures this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134410	Thank you. Then there's a comment. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134415	It is not really because I think we disagree on a great deal, but I would like to challenge one thing. Popular support is not necessarily limited to association with congregational councils, and it is a matter of concern to the congregational council. So, outside me, those who support what they support the church and they support the local church, and that is what this is about for them. And the church council really has the task of caring for the local church and the conditions of the church's normal life. But I would say that the support is not necessarily only reflected in the congregational council work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134504	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134505	The questioner starts by saying that he doesn't think we're so disagreeable. I don't think we are either. For then, at least it has been a laughter if I said that popular support takes place solely in the congregational council work. But it is not insignificant that the proximity to the church and the popular anchoring also takes place in the congregational council work, and that the places where the congregation councils cannot be formed are transferred to another congregation council, or perhaps even to people who are not popularly anchored, and it is certainly not something that increases closeness. That's the point I was trying to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134553	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134554	It is really just for the sake of truth that I would like that to be clarified. Because there are quite a few of those I know, where I live, who support the church and the local church and the parish, but who have no idea who sits on the church council I'm just saying. It may seem paradoxical, but basically it is not, for the church council is set to safeguard the things that belong to the parish and church, and what is at the heart of the preaching and parish church.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134639	Thank you for that clarification. I do not believe that this is a clarification of any of the points I made, because I agree that there are many who sit and feel a commitment to the local church, who do not know who is on the church council but who supports the church, just as there are many who support European cooperation without knowing who is in the European Parliament or who supports democracy in Denmark without knowing all the names of the 179 members of the parliament. So as far as this is concerned, I do not think there is a great deal of disagreement between the questioner and me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134715	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134719	Thank you. I have just one comment to make, because Mr. Carl Holst just says that it is not only about the content of the church, but also about democracy that must be safeguarded. It was a little the same as I said, which is why I have at least used today's debate to say: it is not good enough, it is not enough to support the content of the church. There are also some who must be jointly responsible for the fact that there are some who fit the church's operation. Because if we don't, we don't have a church. The church's content cannot stand alone with the model of the church we have today. So it is really just a thank you that it is also being spoken out that democracy in the people's church is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134800	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134802	Thank you. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134809	Then there are no more comments. Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130134819	This proposal is about how to choose the church council in the Danish State Church, which is also called the National Church. After all, it is important that associations are democratically constructed, especially for the sake of the members of the association. But in associations that should be private, as we in the Enhedslisten believe the church should be, it should be the members who build up the democracy they want, not the Folketing or the state or other superior authorities. The right answer in this question would be: Turn our country into a true secular society, free the people's church from the weighty interference of the state if you were to be a little poetic and separate church and state. But that is not the question we are debating today. Today it is about: Since the church is part of the state, there must also be rules for it. As we talked about during the discussion of L 19, the Enhedslisten is of the opinion that the state and church should be separated and that the faith communities should decide for themselves how they conform, as long as they do not harm others by it. It is not the task of the state to approve religions, as we said in the debate on L 19. But if you want to regulate the faith communities, and if you want a state church, those of you who think so, then it may be sensible to build a democracy. There the Enhedslisten has it that the present situation can easily be called democratic, and the amendment can also easily be called democratic, so in this way we have nothing against any of the proposals either the existing legal state or the other. But it is under a completely wrong framework in our view. That is why I was reminded of the debate under L 19 when the Minister suggested that we should not be required to have democracy in state-acknowledged religions. I was very surprised when I first read it. At first I thought it was because there might be some Muslim communities that did not have the very same culture of democracy as we do. But then it turned out that it was for the sake of the Catholic Church that one had to look at democracy a little much when one gave state recognition. Otherwise, they would not be recognized by the state. I have also met a few Catholics since then, and there I told them that they would have to correct and be democratic if they wanted to be state-recognized. But, as I said, on the one hand, we have no objections to these things, apart from the principle of separation of state and church. We will certainly not vote against it, and we will probably do so by refraining from interfering in what Members rightly ought to be interfering with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135123	Sir. Christian Langballe for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135127	It is rather like putting on a record of phonographs where the melody is known, because I am well aware that the honourable rapporteur has a Marxist view of the people's church and thinks it is opium for the people and so on. etc. I totally agree with that. The only thing that puzzles me is that you put some energy into it anyway. I think that is a bit contradictory, that is to say to take a position on the matter at all if you think it is totally foolish. So I understand that the rapporteur is committed to the Holy Trinity, Marx, Engels and Lenin, and what I just do not understand is: is it compatible with democracy? I don't think Marx was a Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135222	Now I don't recognize much of that, so I haven't talked about Marxism or the three people mentioned. I've been talking about the role of the church in society. And there I would say that we are a group of unbelieving people with different perceptions of what life and death and the world look like, who have chosen not to belong to a religion. Fortunately, it is voluntary in Denmark that you can choose to do so. I think that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party should respect this without giving me and others any views that we have not shown at all in this debate. In this case, I also think the rapporteur should note that I just said that we in the Enhedslist will probably take that position this time not there are probably people here in the Folketing who are members of the Danish National Church, and they can then make a decision on that if they still think it should be part of the state and if they still think that the state should make rules on how to make church councils. I hope that the rapporteur will respect that we have different views on church and the supernatural and that it is quite fine to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135332	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135334	I could not dream of challenging the fact that people are of course allowed to stand outside the church, just as they are allowed to believe what they want to believe, even Marxism, although I think it is totally foolish. Of course people can do it. But I'm just questioning the way to get to the point, i.e. that you think it's all nonsense, and still want an opinion on it. I think that is just a strange way of doing that, and that is why I think the only consistent thing is that you say that you do not actually want to take a position on that. I would also like to remind you that the Church of the People has very, very broad democratic support for the time that 75%. are members of it. And if you take into account that we have had a very massive immigration in recent years, that is actually a very, very high figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135425	First of all, as long as we have a state church, I will take a position on the proposals made in the Folketing and say my opinion on them. As to whether there is a great deal of popular support, I would say that I do not know anything about that. Others can try to assess that. If I look at the votes for the parish council elections, I would say that if it were for a parliamentary election, I would ask that we take a serious discussion on how the hell we moved forward at a slightly higher level in terms of people interfering in what we are doing. And I hope that the church will consider this at times, for it is not too good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135458	I think that for God's sake is an expression that should not be used from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Then it's mr. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135505	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. What made me ask for the floor was the sentence: as long as we have a state church... Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that we have a state church, or does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that we have a church that we accept through the Constitution, but that we have freedom of religion but that we have a people's church?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135535	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135536	I call it a state church, because it has a special status in relation to all other churches in the country, among others. is mentioned in the Constitution, among other things. there is regulation of it in a number of areas that are taking place in the Folketing, and not in the association that could govern the religion called the church of the people. What you call it is a matter of taste. I call it a state church because it has the special status it once has. I think it is a little wrong to call it a national church, because there is no such strong support in the Danish people for the Danish National Church. That is certainly a very passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135611	Thank you. There are no more comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135628	Thank you. The proposal for elections to the church councils has been through thorough committee work and a long consultation process, and the answers have been clear, and I think it is clear that the aim is therefore to strengthen the commitment to our church. It has taken place with very great differences until today; with peace elections in some places, with very little interest in it, elsewhere with great commitment with several lists. There are big differences in commitment. And then there has been a distance from people, that it was just such a voting procedure, and therefore I choose to believe that in the country we find ourselves in, Association Denmark, elections to the church councils must be based on the same instruments as in the rest of the popular association work, namely, that one actually meets and chooses one's board of directors here it is then the election to the church council and it promotes commitment and interest and thus also a greater willingness to take a strong stand on what one assumes responsibility for. Because it is an indirect democracy in which some are chosen to represent themselves and to deal with the matter. If this bill could lead to the stronger popular commitment, it is good, because the church councils should like to fill something in the community with activities and many other activities, as many other associations do, and therefore it is so important that they are elected by the people, and that you have some elected ones that have shown that they may be able to create engagement and activities, instead of just doing so on a list that you are not particularly aware of, which I am aware of happens in several places. So I think there's only one good thing to say about this. We will also get a quick settlement, because you will soon be able to see whether there will be a greater commitment from this bill. The opportunities are there, and we must then hope that, on the day it also comes out in the real world, it actually happens. So I think it's a good day for the public church with this bill, and we support it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135845	Sir. Christian Langballe, a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135849	I am, in fact, in favour of a great deal of commitment in all contexts, and this also applies in a communal context, with the reservation that it is a Christian church, which means that it is something other than a gymnasium and so on. But I get a little arg, because the only measurable thing we have in relation to the support for the church is the number of members, and just as the support for the Enhedslisten is reflected in the electoral connection, we have a public church where popular support is 75%, and we can agree on that is a fundamental relationship. Subsequently, it must also be compared with the fact that there has been massive immigration, which means that if you take the old dancers, or whatever you would call them, the support, if you take immigration out of the percentage, is actually up to 86%. I think that's pretty well done. Neither the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance nor the Danish People's Party can boast such a great endorsement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130135957	That must be a comment from Mr. Christian Langballe, because I haven't said anything about that. I have, in fact, dealt with what kind of bill we are dealing with: elections to the church council. But we can easily take a more thorough debate on the support for the church, as Mr. Christian Langballe is well versed, and there I fully agree that there should be broader support from the church councils. But now I'm just pointing out that it's been going on very differently in many places and also with total lack of commitment in some places, and if we can make it right, it's really good, because then there's a good condition for us to maintain a good support... it might even get bigger for the people's church. If that leads to it, it is very good, and I hope we will agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140040	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140050	Thank you. I'll be brief. In the alternative, we support this bill in line with the other rapporteurs who have been up here, and I welcome it from the SF and say that they also support it. There are a lot of good things in it, and it is funny that this debate is really going to be a debate on democracy. I think that is a very good thing, because what actually made me most happy when I read it was that the emphasis is being placed on democracy being more and more than a vote and that the recommendations and considerations of the committee are being followed in terms of how the democratic legitimacy of the church councils can be developed and improved. One of the things that appears here is a reference to the old Hal Kochske tradition of democracy involvement. That is funny, because at the time one of our reasons for the alternative was to engage in politics at all, a need for a renewal of democratic legitimacy and authority among citizens and an idea that democracy is never something without the conversation. And one of the things that is actually very much apparent from the basis of this bill is that the conversation is as important a component of democracy as pressing a button or ticking a note. It even mentions the involvement of democracy in the comments, which is one of the things that we in the Alternative are working to promote in general a little more in society. So we are happy and of course we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140233	Thank you. Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140236	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur did not mention this in his excellent speech, but I would like to ask the rapporteur for the alternative, in view of the answer I received from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, whether the alternative is that the Danish National Church is a state church.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140303	We will get an answer to that very soon, in the sense that the way we develop our policy is through these processes where we do political laboratories, and some of what we are currently doing is actually the religion policy of the alternative, and it should very much like to be completed in the spring. One of the key things that is being discussed right now and I can say that openly, because our laboratories are open assemblies, which anyone can get into is about the state. I have little doubt that the alternative is in favour of a greater degree of equality between the different beliefs and societies of life that are, but whether we believe that they should be subject to the state or not be subject to the state is the big question that needs to be answered through this process. So I simply cannot answer it now, but I can say in return that it is in process and I expect to be able to give an answer during the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140354	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140355	I was perhaps asked the question a little vaguely, because the good answer I received was not quite the answer to the question I asked, as I saw it, sorry. What is the rapporteur's view here and now and today when you look at the Danish National Church: Is it a state church or a national church? I refer to the exchange of words between the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and myself earlier in the debate. And when I ask that, it is precisely in relation to the democratic understanding. So what is the alternative's attitude to the Danish church: Is it a state church or a national church? On what narrative is one based in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140440	Here you go, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140442	That answer can of course be an answer based on the model we have today, and in the model we have today, the church is a state church. It is part of the Danish state. Maybe I don't quite understand that distinction. We may have to talk about it over a cup of coffee later, because it is also a church of the people, because it is the church of the people, which is, of course, quite central, but it is inscribed in the constitution. It's under the Danish state. But I think we need to take the discussion over a cup of coffee so that I understand exactly what is being asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140517	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140518	So I would like to say that I think this is simply a misunderstanding. And it is a misunderstanding for the reason that what the founding fathers found was that the Evangelical Lutheran church was the church of the Danish people. And that's why they decided to support it, that's... give it a special position in relation to others, not that there was no freedom of religion, but that of giving the people's church a special position. That is what is fundamental, and that is also why I believe that the alternative and also the Enhedslisten simply run wild. After all, it is not a decision that the state has made, which, so to speak, has just failed from above. It is an observation of the empirical historical reality where the Evangelical Lutheran Church is the Danish National Church and has an anchor in popularity, and therefore it was written into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140614	But it is quite true that this is how it is today that the Danish National Church, the Evangelical Lutheran National Church, has been given a special position in relation to other religions. But you can look at Norway, which has made a change of law not long ago. In the light of the debate which this has led to, the question is whether this is still the case. That's a good question. I do not think that you need to be a religious dissident. You do not have to do that at all in order to perhaps want greater equality between the beliefs and outlooks in Denmark today. You can do that even if you care about religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140650	Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140651	Yeah, but I just think that when it's that way, it's historical and factual. Well, it's not a question of not accepting other religions. But it is a question of how we have been a Christian country for 1,000 years and, of course, that it puts its mark, including in the people's world, and that is why section 4 is introduced. The way to do it, I think it's practical. Then I would say that it is right to say about Norway that it is a state church, because everything is mixed together really, that is it. Well, everything's mixed up in Norway. And there some changes have been made to the law so that everything does not get mixed up. So only the church tax was not an independent tax, but part of the ordinary state tax. It's just to say that you can't quit and keep being part of the church in some way anyway, wherever you look.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140742	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140743	However, it does not make me a worse Christian if I am in favour of some of the other religious communities we have in Denmark being treated in the same way as the rights they have. This does not, of course, make the church a less important institution, and it does not necessarily give less support to the people. So it's also a little bit about the fact that history is moving, too. And in relation to a perspective of what rights we can give to the various institutions of our society, that is a necessary debate to take. But that does not make the individual believer a worse believer; it does not make the church a less important institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140817	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140820	In my very young days I had a very interesting and long debate with the local priest because I wanted to resign from an association that I had not voluntarily joined, I was just a member. I can then blame my parents and others for that, but I was, and then I resigned, and we had a really good debate about that. But it is, after all, an association which, in the way in which we have screwed up the so-called National Church, becomes a member of. And you have a whole lot of public tasks that lie with the church, and by the way, it is not true that we have been in the Evangelical Lutheran Church for 1,000 years. As far as I remember, that church isn't that old. The Catholic Church is old, that's right, and then Luther changed things. That is why I believe that there is no disservice to the church by mixing state and church together? Would it not be better for the church to develop itself and independently, thereby showing its great strength and living up to the right name called the National Church?
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130140921	I don't know if you're doing the church a disservice. I believe that the important thing, at least in our optics, is to guarantee equal rights in relation to the different faiths that exist. Whether it's under the state or not under the state is one of the things we're discussing. Ultimately, it is more important to discuss whether the different faiths have equal rights. I have a Protestant mother and a Catholic father, and I have committed two religions all my life. So I have seen what it's like to have one leg in something that has been a state church, and the other leg in something else, which is more of a private organization. So in this way, I think that the debate on equality is more interesting than whether it might be under the State or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141009	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141011	I personally believe that the state must guarantee freedom of belief. That is to say, whether you believe in supernatural forces or you believe in other things, or you do not believe that there are any things that govern it, apart from ourselves, the state must guarantee that freedom of belief. I think that is the task of the state. I don't want them running a church next door. And why do I think that? I think so because if you were to fight for your own religion, your own church, it will be much stronger and healthier communities where you do not sit back, but actively choose your representatives, and are not down to very, very low votes when you vote on church councils. That is why I think it is to do the church a disservice to link it with the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141057	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141058	I take note of that. I do not have any more comments on this right now, but, as I said, in relation to where we stand on it in the Alternative, we will come up with something in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141109	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141113	Thank you. After all, this was an exciting debate that went far beyond the draft law. So what I am about to say is not so much a concrete question to the rapporteur, but more a comment. It is true that we have a state-supported public church, and perhaps it is also state-driven, and that is where the confusion arises. Because we call it a public church, but it is very much the state that controls the operation. That is also why my party and others are working for the modernisation of the people's church and greater autonomy for the people's church in finding its own mode of operation. Then there's a little tip for all of you who may think that we have a state church: You can just go to Jelling and then see how the flags are flapping on Sundays. The people's church flakes with an ordinary Dannebrok, and on the burial mounds, which are state property, they flake with the split flag. So when the church is not allowed to flag the split flag, it is nevertheless a good sign that it is not just a state church.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141210-2	Thank you. I do not have any comments on that, but thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141217	Thank you to the rapporteur. And it is true that we have come a long way with this discussion. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Then it's the church minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141234	First of all, thank you for the very broad support for the proposal. I'm glad. It has been a long process, there has been a consultation and we have listened to consultation answers and so on, and the broad support suggests that we have hit something that is right. So I'm very happy about that. There was one specific question from Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party, who was: What about the peace elections? I am not quite sure that I understand the question, but I am available at all times for clarification. Because it can be said that what we have called peace elections so far, when it ends up with a list of the members who are to be of the church council forward-looking, is, in fact, continued into the new system, while at the same time having an opportunity out there, if you want a definite electoral act, then taking the election action. So I am not quite sure that I understand the question, but, as I said, I am happy to be available for further clarification if that is necessary. Then it is interesting, because there is something at stake when you come around so far that you talk about both Catholics and Marxism and the State Church and the National Church and democracy and all sorts of other things in such a debate here. But I think that's only interesting. In fact, it is 12,000 people in Denmark who are now quite willing to engage in the work of the church councils, so it is not because it is completely backward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141356	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180130141416	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 31 January 2018 kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
